

401 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: For Ordinary Saudis, Days Of Oil and Roses Are Over

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: JIDDA, Saudi Arabia

 BODY:
Not long ago, most Saudis scorned greasy spoons like Abu Zeid's.
With barrels of oil money, they preferred the glitz of American fast food or the cachet of French cuisine to the fluorescent lighting, Formica tabletops and cheap mashed beans of Abu Zeid's. 
 But faced with a recession, soaring unemployment and declining incomes, Saudi Arabia is undergoing a transformation, and what once seemed inconceivable is slowly becoming routine.
The Government, famous for free health and education programs and lavish military spending, and for never collecting a nickel's worth of taxes, has announced deep spending cuts concentrated in the military and security, even putting on hold a $1.7 billion arms deal.
Further steps are possible, including eliminating longtime utility subsidies and even opening the long-closed kingdom, ever so slightly, to foreign tourists and American oil companies.
Among ordinary Saudis, long the world's most voracious consumers, the change is visible among shoppers who are forsaking luxury goods and bellying up for dish of mashed beans at Abu Zeid's for 55 cents.
"When you are hungry you will take anything to fill your stomach," said Ibrahim, 49, a retired air force officer and father of eight, including two unemployed sons, all of whom live at home. "And we are hungry now; we are in need."
For more than two decades Saudi Arabia, with its vast oil reserves, successfully walled itself off from the world beyond. Even when oil prices dipped, its spending was sacrosanct.
But the shock of the last year, in which oil prices slid 40 percent, has made clear to just about everyone that old habits must die -- a conclusion that has not come without anguish.
"When the river dries out, where do the fishermen go?" asked Abdullah Dabbagh, chief adviser to the Saudi Chamber of Commerce and a member of the country's Majlis al-Shura, or consultative council. "If we dry out, where do we go?"
Here in Jidda, the country's commercial center on the Red Sea, the grim moods are reflected on the faces of anxious merchants.
"These are going to be hard times," said a luxury car salesman. He said car sales had fallen 50 percent since late last year. "Hopefully we can find a way to survive, because I can't imagine a dark future."
In 1998 the country's oil income plunged by about 40 percent or $20 billion, a result of the worldwide decline in prices. Having crept into surplus for two years running, the Saudi budget fell deeply back into the red, with a deficit of $13 billion, three times what had been predicted. It was the biggest deficit since the end of the Persian Gulf war of 1991.
Oil prices have spurted recently under a Saudi plan to slash worldwide production. But to carry that off, the country has pledged to cut its own production by more than 5 percent, something that will limit its ability to recover lost income and will leave it with continuing deficits. The plan is expected to be considered on March 23 at a meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna.
For now, though, Saudi Arabia is in recession, its first in six years. The economy is expected to shrink in real terms this year by about 2 percent -- the deepest decline since the mid-1980's.
With mounting deficits, the national debt is soaring and the cost of interest alone consumes 15 percent of the budget. That has put pressure on the currency, the riyal, the value of which is pegged to the dollar.
Last year the country's economic output per person -- or gross domestic production per capita -- sagged to an estimated $6,300 from more than $7,000 in 1997 and $16,700 in 1980, when oil prices were high and incomes peaked. Unemployment is rising, with an estimated 100,000 young men every year entering a job market with little growth.
"In the last year, our eyes have been opened to things we haven't seen before," said Said al-Shaikh, chief economist for the National Commercial Bank. "There is no doubt these are major challenges for Saudi Arabia.
In many ways, everyday life in Saudi Arabia has not had the gold-plated vistas that immediately greet most foreign visitors: the new-model cars, high-end shops and wide, modern highways.
Outside the big cities, shopping is still done at open-air markets, not air-conditioned malls, and what passes for entertainment might be a visit to a male-only drive-in featuring television programs, with old sets balanced on tabletops at the edge of the desert.
Still, Saudis say, the effect of mounting economic troubles has become evident in the last year. Sharp cuts in agricultural subsidies have brought migrants to the desert outside the capital, Riyadh. In that city's outlying areas, young children can sometimes be seen peddling tissues at traffic lights, providing a glimpse of new poverty.
 
Poor Saudis Knocking On Doors Seeking Food
In cities like Taif, two hours northeast of Jidda, and Abha, in the country's mountainous south, residents say they have opened their doors to poor people knocking in search of food. Some 45 percent of all Saudis are 14 and under, and the fear is that the hard times might only get worse.
"I'm really worried about my boys and my daughters," said Ibrahim, who like most ordinary Saudis willing to speak frankly about the country's economic difficulties would do so only on condition that his full name not be used.
In cutting spending, the Saudis will allow many defense contracts to expire. They have also warned American and other defense contractors that they plan to stretch out hundreds of millions of dollars in payments that would otherwise have been due this year.
Other big victims include the Saudi energy industry, particularly among contractors employed by the Government-owned oil company, Saudi Aramco, whose budget for exploration and construction has been virtually eliminated this year.
At the same time, the Saudis have shown signs that they at last may be willing to embrace changes aimed at attracting new sources of income.
Last fall, Crown Prince Abdullah, effectively the country's ruler because of King Fahd's poor health, cracked open a door closed since the 1970's by inviting American oil companies to propose how they might again play a role in the kingdom's energy industry. In the short term, diplomats say, any role offered to them is likely to be limited, but even that change would reflect a new openness to foreign investment.
 
A New Industry: Foreign Tourism
In the last 18 months the Government has also permitted foreign tourists to visit for the first time, an experiment that many entrepreneurs hope will help create a new industry. A main focus has been Asir Province in the south, where mountains soar to 10,000 feet and preparations have begun for a college of tourism to help serve an expected influx of visitors.
Already, Saudis and residents of neighboring gulf countries -- lured by cool weather, Swiss-built cable cars and family-friendly amusement parks -- have become regular summertime visitors to the region, but the Saudi Government had never before issued tourist visas to other foreigners, in a determination to protect the country's strict Islamic culture.
But even within the royal family, many are saying the Government should find a way to accommodate foreigners, particularly those who might pay top dollar to visit Saudi Arabia's unspoiled Red Sea reefs and its vast Empty Quarter desert.
"I think the Government has been very cautious about the effect of hundreds of thousands of people from other cultures who would offend local people without even knowing about it," said Prince Bandar ibn Khalid, deputy chairman of Asir's tourism council.
"What I suggest." he said, "is that we build enclaves on the Red Sea only for foreign and non-Muslim tourists, and within the enclave they can do anything they want.
"As long as the people don't see the tourists except when they are dressed properly, that's fine. Of course, the religious people and the extremists won't like it, but they won't have to see it."
In Asir, where tourism provides the only new jobs, local people say they are grateful for any new business they can get.
"The more the better," said Mohammed al-Alkemi, 95, a merchant who wore a traditional silver dagger in his belt as he sold honey in the market in Abha, the regional capital.
Of course, Saudi Arabia has announced austerity measures before, only to postpone them as economic prospects improved.
 
A Job Program Makes Little Progress
In what was to have been a first step toward eliminating costly Government subsidies, it doubled the price of gasoline in 1995 and announced a plan to install Saudis in jobs held by foreigners.
But progress in carrying out the job program has been slow. With many Saudis unable or unwilling to take on difficult work at low pay, foreigners -- most of them other Arabs and South Asians -- still account for 67 percent of the Government work force, and they hold a staggering 95 percent of private jobs.
The economic weakness now confronting the country may finally be driving home the message that change is unavoidable.
A soaring level of debt driven upward by uncontrolled spending now amounts to $130 billion, equivalent to the country's total economic output, and the debt is expected to swell by another $14 billion this year.
Officially, the Saudis have so far financed most of that debt at home -- only $7 billion is owed abroad -- but strains are beginning to show.
With Saudi banks drawn to the limit, the Government has had to rely heavily on its pension funds and other sources, including Saudi Aramco, the Saudi oil company, which is officially autonomous but last year borrowed more than $4 billion from foreign banks and promptly transferred it to the treasury, Saudi bankers say.
Because of the cash crunch, diplomats say, the Government postpones payments to Saudi contractors for as long as two months, then settles its debts in Saudi bonds instead of cash.
A further indication of trouble came in January, when the Moody's Investors Service downgraded Saudi bonds to junk status in what it called a reaction to the size and growth of the Government's debt.
Those developments have caught the eye of international speculators, who have put substantial pressure on the Saudi currency recently by betting that the Government will be unable to maintain its rate of 3.75 riyals to the dollar.
Bankers and economists say Saudi Arabia has enough foreign exchange to stave off such pressure. But the battle has cost the Saudis billions of dollars in foreign currency reserves, they say, and was almost certainly the reason for murky transaction late last year in which as much as $5 billion is believed to have been transferred to Saudi Arabia by the United Arab Emirates as part of a secret currency swap.
Still, said Kevin Taecker, chief economist of the Saudi American Bank in Riyadh, a devaluation by next year is not out of the question.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "INDICATORS: Less Lavish Future"
As oil prices continue to drop, Saudi Arabia's once robust economy is stalling. Graphs shows Saudi crude oil price per barrel* and the Saudi Gross Domestic Product per capita, in U.S. dollars, from 1971 through 1999.
 
*Prices are from the first Friday in January for each year.
 
(Sources: World Bank; Energy Department; American Petroleum Institute)(pg. A5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%); RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AGRICULTURE OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); DESERT STORM (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); ARMS TRADE (74%); RETAILERS (73%); TRENDS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (54%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS ABU ZEID (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1999



402 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3750 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Voices Anger and Compassion at Serbian Intransigence on Kosovo

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's news conference today at the White House, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription agency:
 
Statement
Ladies and gentlemen, as all you know, we have been involved in an intensive effort to end the conflict in Kosovo for many weeks now. With our NATO allies, and with Russia, we proposed a peace agreement to stop the killing and give the people of Kosovo the self-determination and government they need and to which they are entitled under the Constitution of their government. Yesterday, the Kosovar Albanians signed that agreement. Even though they have not obtained all they seek, even as their people remain under attack, they've had the vision to see that a just peace is better than an unwinnable war. 
 Now only President Milosevic stands in the way of peace. Today the peace talks were adjourned because the Serbian negotiators refused even to discuss key elements of the peace plan. NATO has warned President Milosevic to end his intransigence and repression or face military action. Our allies are strongly united behind this course. We are prepared, and so are they, to carry it out.
Today I reviewed our planning with my senior advisers and met with many members of Congress. As we prepare to act, we need to remember the lessons we have learned in the Balkans. We should remember the horror of the war in Bosnia, the sounds of sniper fire aimed at children, the faces of young men behind barbed wire, the despairing voices of those who thought nothing could be done. It took precious time to achieve allied unity there, but when we did, our firmness ended all that. Bosnia is now at peace.
We should remember the thousands of people facing cold and hunger in the hills of Kosovo last fall. Firmness ended that as well.
We should remember what happened in the village of Racak back in January -- innocent men, women, and children taken from their homes to a gully, forced to kneel in the dirt, sprayed with gunfire, not because of anything they had done, but because of who they were.
Now roughly 40,000 Serbian troops and police are massing in and around Kosovo. Our firmness is the only thing standing between them and countless more villages like Racak, full of people without protection, even though they have now chosen peace.
Make no mistake; if we and our allies do not have the will to act, there will be more massacres. In dealing with aggressors in the Balkans, hesitation is a license to kill. But action and resolve can stop armies and save lives.
We must also understand our stake in peace in the Balkans and in Kosovo. This is a humanitarian crisis, but it is much more.
This is a conflict with no natural boundaries. It threatens our national interests. If it continues, it will push refugees across borders and draw in neighboring countries. It will undermine the credibility of NATO on which stability in Europe and our own credibility depend.
It will likely reignite the historical animosities, including those that could embrace Albania, Macedonia, Greece, even Turkey. And these divisions still have the potential to make the next century a truly violent one for that part of the world that straddles Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
Unquestionably, there are risks in military action, if that becomes necessary. U.S. and other NATO pilots will be in harm's way. The Serbs have a strong air-defense system. But we must weigh those risks against the risks of inaction.
If we don't act, the war will spread. If it spreads, we will not be able to contain it without far greater risk and cost. I believe the real challenge of our foreign policy today is to deal with problems before they do permanent harm to our vital interests. That is what we must do in Kosovo.
Let me just make one other statement about this.
One of the things that I wanted to do, when I became the President, is to take advantage of this moment in history to build an alliance with Europe for the 21st century with a Europe undivided, strong, secure, prosperous and at peace. That is why I have supported the unification of Europe financially, politically, economically. That is why I have supported the expansion of NATO and a redefinition of its missions.
What are the challenges to our realizing that dream; the challenge of a successful partnership with Russia, that succeeds in its own mission; the challenge of a resolution of the difficulties between Greece and Turkey so that Turkey becomes an ally of Europe and the West for the long term; and the challenge of instability in the Balkans? In different ways, all those things are at stake here.
I honestly believe that by acting now, we can help to give our children and our grandchildren a Europe that is more united, more democratic, more peaceful, more prosperous, and a better partner for the United States for a long time to come.
I will say again to Mr. Milosevic, as I did in Bosnia: I do not want to put a single American pilot into the air. I do not want anyone else to die in the Balkans. I do not want a conflict. I would give anything to be here talking about something else today. But a part of my responsibility is to try to leave to my successors and to our country in the 21st century an environment in Europe that is stable, humane and secure. It will be a big part of America's future.
 
Questions and Answers
Q. Mr. President, as you mentioned, Yugoslav forces seem to be mobilizing for war in Kosovo, despite the warnings of NATO air strikes. After so many threats in the past, why should President Milosevic take this one seriously? And is there a deadline for him to comply? And is it your intention to keep pounding Serb targets until he agrees to your peace terms?
A. Well, there are several questions there. But let me say, I think he should take this seriously because we meant -- we were serious in Bosnia. And it was the combined impact of NATO's action in Bosnia, plus the reversals they sustained in the ground in fighting, plus the economic embargo, that led them to conclude that peace was the better course.
Now, he says here that this is not like what happened last fall, that this threatens Serbia's sovereignty to have a multinational force on the ground in Kosovo.
But he has put that at risk by his decade -- and I want to re-emphasize that, his decade -- of denial of the autonomy to which the Kosovars are legally entitled, as a part of Serbia.
My intention would be to do whatever is possible, first of all, to weaken his ability to massacre them, to have another Bosnia; and secondly, to do all that I can to induce him to take -- it is not my peace agreement; it was an agreement worked out and negotiated and argued over, with all the parties' concerns being taken into account. I will say, again, for the longest time we did not believe that either side would take this agreement. And the fact that the Kosovar Albanians did it, I think, reflects foresight and wisdom on their part. They did not get everything they wanted. And in a peace agreement, nobody ever gets everything they want. We've seen it in the Middle East and Northern Ireland, everywhere else. So it is not my agreement, it is the best agreement that all the parties can get to give us a chance to go forward without bloodshed.
I believe also, as I have said publicly to Mr. Milosevic and to the Serbs, it is their best chance to keep Kosovo as a part of Serbia, as a part of Yugoslavia. And so I would hope that the agreement could be accepted, and I'll do what I can to see that it is.
Q. Is there a deadline, sir? Any deadline?
A. I don't want to discuss that. We are working on that. I expect to be working on this all weekend.
Q. Mr. President, how long have you known that the Chinese were stealing our nuclear secrets? Is there any trust left between the two nations? And some Republicans are saying that you deliberately suppressed the information from the American people because of the election and your trade goals.
A. Well, let me try to respond to all those things. First of all, the latter charge is simply untrue. We were notified -- Mr. Berger was notified sometime in 1996 of the possibility that security had been breached at the labs, the Energy Department labs, where a lot of our nuclear work is done, in the mid-80's -- not in the 1990's, but in the mid-80's -- and that there was an investigation being undertaken by the F.B.I.
Then, sometime in the middle of 1997, he was notified and I was notified that the extent of the security might have been quite extensive. So we had the C.I.A. looking into that; the Energy Department looking into that, and the F.B.I. investigation continued with the cooperation, the full cooperation of the Energy Department.
In early 1998, I propounded a Presidential directive designed to improve security at the labs. And, as you know, Secretary Richardson's been talking quite a bit in recent days about what has been done since that directive was signed, and what continues to be done today.
Now, I think there are two questions here that are related but ought to be kept separate. One is, was there a breach of security in the mid-80's? If so, did it result in espionage? That has not been fully resolved, as least as of my latest briefing. Then second is -- there are really three questions. Excuse me.
The second is, once the Executive Branch was notified and the investigations began, was everything done in a timely fashion? I am confident that we in the White House have done what we could to be aggressive about this. Look, if there was espionage against the United States, I will be very upset about it, as I have been every time there has been. And anybody who committed it ought to be punished, just as we went after Mr. Ames, anybody else who committed espionage against the United States.
In an effort to insure that there was an independent review of this, in addition to whatever work is being done by the Senate and House committees, who have, as you know, received more than a dozen briefings over the course of this investigation, going back to 1996, I asked Senator Rudman, former Republican senator from New Hampshire, and the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board to review the chronology, to make an assessment, and to make any recommendations about what further action also might need to be taken. So I believe that's the appropriate thing to do.
Now, the third question is: What, if anything, does this mean about our relationship with China? I don't believe that we should ever afford to be -- we can afford to be under any illusions about our relationship with China or any other country, for that matter, with whom we have both common interests and deep disagreements. I believe the course I have followed with China is the one that's best for America -- disagreeing where we have serious disagreements, pursuing our common interests where I thought it was in the interest of the United States. And I'll -- again, let me just say one or two examples.
I think if we hadn't been working with China, China would not have signed the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, the Chemical Weapons Convention; they would very likely not have refrained from transferring dangerous technology and weaponry to countries that we don't believe should get it.
I doubt if they would have helped us, as much as they have, to try to contain the North Korean nuclear threat or that we would have had the level of cooperation we had in trying to limit the Asian financial crisis, which is a serious economic and security problem for our country. And I think we should just take the facts as they come and do what is best for the American people.
But I can say categorically, that it never crossed my mind that I should not disclose some inquiry being undertaken by the United States government for reasons of commercial or other gain. That is not true. I just think we should always pursue what is in the interests of the United States. And if we think we have got a security problem, we ought to fix it.
But, plainly, the security was too lax for years and years and years at the labs. And a lot of important changes have been made, and yesterday the secretary of Energy announced some others. I think that if anybody did in fact commit espionage, it is a bad thing, and we should take appropriate action. But in our dealings with China, we should do quite simply what is in the interests of the American people, and that's what I intend to do.
Q. Mr. President, you met this morning with members of Congress, and afterward, some of them came out and said that they had trouble imagining how you could justify air strikes on Kosovo unless the Serbs launched a new offensive first. In fact, Senator Nickles actually suggested that it might take a significant massacre before such a move would get public support. In your mind, does the mere fact that the Serbs refuse to sign a peace treaty justify air strikes? Or do you think they need to -- if they took military action, only then you could act?
A. Well first, I believe they have already taken provocative action, and there was in the very recent past the massacre at the village that I mentioned in my opening statement. Plus there is the long, unquestioned record of atrocity in Bosnia . . .
So what we have tried to do all along -- and, frankly, the Russians have been with us in this; I don't mean that they support military action, but they've been with us in the peace process -- we could see that the same thing that happened in Bosnia and that had happened to some extent in Kosovo already, and had already produced tens of thousands of refugees in Kosovo, was going to happen there. And it seems to me that if we know that, and if we have a NATO action order, predicated on the implementation of the peace process, and the failure to do it triggering reaction, that we ought to do what we can to prevent further atrocities.
I understand what Senator Nickles was saying. I think he was saying that the American public has not seen the sort of atrocities there they saw in Bosnia, that that is not fresh in people's minds. But with all the troops that have been massed, and what we know about their plans, and what they have publicly said about them, I would hate to think that we'd have to see a lot of other little children die before we could do what seems to be, to me, clearly the right thing to do to prevent it.
Q. Mr. President, when Juanita Broaddrick leveled her charges against you of rape in a nationally televised interview, your attorney David Kendall issued a statement denying them.
But shouldn't you speak directly on this matter and reassure the public? And if they are not true, can you tell us what your relationship with Ms. Broaddrick was, if any?
A. Well, five weeks ago today, five weeks ago today, I stood in the Rose Garden after the Senate voted, and I told you that I thought I owed it to the American people to give them 100 percent of my time and to focus on their business, and that I would leave it to others to decide whether they would follow that lead. And that is why I have decided, as soon as that vote was over, that I would allow all future questions to be answered by my attorneys. And I think I made the right decision. I hope you can understand it. I think the American people do understand it and support it, and I think it was the right decision. . . .
Q. Mr. President, it seems you're on the verge of committing U.S. forces to combat without a clear definition of your threshold for doing so. In January, Serb troops massacred 44 civilians. You called it murder and demanded that the Serb forces withdraw. They did not. Last month you said it would be a mistake to extend the deadline, but the deadline passed. Last week your Administration said atrocities would be punished, and then after that, a bomb went off in a Kosovo market and killed numerous children. What level of atrocity, sir, is a sufficient trigger? What is your threshold?
A. Well you've just made my case. I think that the threshold has been crossed. But when I said that the deadline should be -- should not be extended, Mr. Pelley, what I said was that those of us who were trying to shepherd the process should not extend the deadline.
When the parties themselves asked for a delay, that's an entirely different kettle of fish. You can't -- I mean, we can't be -- the rest of us can't be so patronizing that we can't say to both sides they have no right to ask for a delay. They asked themselves for a delay, and I thought it was the right thing to do. I still believe that it was the right thing to do. And it did lead to one side accepting the agreement.
You had made another point which I did not make in my remarks, but I would like to make based on the factual statements you made. Everything you said was right, all the factual things you've cited, which is that there are basically two grounds on which, in my judgment, NATO could properly take action. One is the fact that we have already said that if the peace agreement were accepted by the Kosovars but not by the Serbs, we would take action to try to minimize the ability of the Serbs just to overrun and slaughter the Kosovars. That's the first thing I said.
The second thing, and what you said is quite right, while our threat of force last year did result in the drastic reduction of the tension and a lot the refugees going home, it is absolutely true that there have been actions taken since then and force movements since then that would trigger the other NATO action order to use force. The reason that has not been done, frankly, is because the peace process was going on, and we knew if we could just get an agreement from both sides, that we could end the violence and we wouldn't have to act under either ground.
So from my point of view, as I made clear to the Congress today, I think the threshold for their conduct has already been crossed. . . .
Q. Mr. President, your Administration has come out against the extension of the independent counsel statute. And yet when you signed it -- a reauthorization of it five years ago, you called it a force for government integrity and public confidence. Do you think now you made a mistake when you signed that reauthorization five years ago? Do you disavow those comments? And if so, do you feel that way because you were the target of Ken Starr's investigation?
A. Well, because of that, because I was the target, I think it is better for me to refer you to the conclusions reached by the American Bar Association that had the same change of heart, and by the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General. I believe that their view should be given more weight, since they were not the subject of such investigations. And the Bar Association and the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General, have spoken clearly and have said anything I could say. . . .
Q. Mr. President, many young Americans learn the importance of telling the truth based on an allegory about our very first President. George Washington reportedly said, "I cannot tell a lie." What do you think your legacy will be about lying? And how important do you think it is to tell the truth, especially under oath?
A. I think it's very important. And I think that what young people will learn from my experience is that even Presidents have to do that, and that there are consequences when you don't. But I also think that there will be a box score, and there will be that one negative. And then there will be the hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times when the record will show that I did not abuse my authority as President, that I was truthful with the American people, and scores and scores of allegations were made against me and widely publicized without any regard to whether they were true or not. Most of them have already been actually proved false. And it's very hard to disprove every false allegation against you. But we have had more success frankly than I was afraid we would when we started.
So I would hope that there would be a higher regard for truth-telling by all people in public life and all those who report on it. I think it would be a very good thing.
Q. Mr. President, for many years civil rights leaders have called for White House help on cases of police brutality and police profiling. Now civil rights leaders say more needs to be done, like opening old brutality cases. Will you listen to those calls and expand your recent proposals allowing that?
A. . . . I am mindful of the fact that, when you put on a gun, no matter how well trained you are, you have to be very careful about being under great stress and fear and making mistakes. But it seems to me that, just as this Administration has strongly supported law enforcement in every way, to try to give us a safer country and a country where the law enforcement was closer connected to the community, we have a responsibility to deal with these issues of brutality when they arise, and the whole question of policies of profiling, of presuming that people are more likely to be criminals because of their racial background or some other characteristic.
And I hope that our Administration, working with civil rights groups, civil liberties groups and law enforcement groups, will be able to really get a genuine debate on this and a resolution of it that is satisfactory, because we cannot -- we cannot have the kind of country we want if people are afraid of those folks who are trying to protect them. . . .
Q. Mr. President, you said just a short while ago that no one has reported to you they suspect Chinese espionage at U.S. nuclear labs during your Administration, sir. But sources tell Fox News, and we are reporting this evening that China stole the technology for electromagnetic pulse weapons from several nuclear labs during your first term in office, sir, and that the Chinese have successfully tested these weapons in China. And the sources also say that the Administration at least was aware of this.
Can you tell us, sir, were you not personally aware? Are you concerned about this? . . .
A. To the best of my knowledge -- and you know I try to -- not only do I spend a great deal of time every day on national security measures, I try to prepare for these things. To the best of my knowledge, no one has said anything to me about any espionage, which occurred by the Chinese against the labs, during my Presidency. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS PEACE PROCESS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); CHILDREN (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ARMIES (75%); POLITICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REFUGEES (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); YOUTH MARKET (64%); ESPIONAGE (60%); ETHICS (59%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1999



403 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 40; Column 1; Men's Fashions of The Times Magazine 

LENGTH: 2246 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Act

BYLINE: By Andrew Solomon 

 BODY:
Last October, I met with troops from the former Yugoslavia in a small Hungarian town near the Croatian border. It was a damp, muddy day, and I wore a pair of heavy, well-made, comfortable boots, camouflage-printed, which I had bought from John Bartlett's autumn collection. I was deep in conversation with a soldier when a senior officer interrupted us. "I need such boots for our troops," he said. "They are U.S. standard issue or from a private supplier?" I gave him the name of the very private SoHo boutique where my footwear was at that time available, and warned him that he might encounter financial obstacles to the bulk orders he had in mind.
After I got home, I was invited to a smart uptown Halloween dinner party. "I don't think we're going to do real costumes," said the host. "On the other hand," his wife volunteered, "we'll all kind of dress up, so maybe wear something suggestive of a costume, or kind of conceptual." I gave some brief consideration to these vagaries, and went to the party in those same John Bartlett boots, along with his well-cut, camouflage-printed leather jacket and trousers -- my guerrilla suit, I said. Though I had worn all the parts separately over the preceding months, taken together, they were a costume that allowed me to approximate the American ideal of those Croatian soldiers (who, in fact, unable to afford SoHo, wear frayed, stretchy blue nylon in one-size-fits-nobody). 
 Costume, uniform and everyday clothing are no longer altogether visually distinct. Men's dress aspires increasingly to the extensive variety that women's has incorporated over the last 30 years. Men can wear more shapes, materials and patterns in more places than ever before. The decline and fall of the office dress code has left even those professionals who stick with square-cut flannel suits in the morass of choice rather than in the safe domain of protocol. Thinking about clothing is no longer the province of recondite dandies, but is an issue for mainstream American men, who have been liberated by shifting gender roles, the awakened esthetic of a multicultural nation, the aggressive campaigns of international designers, the increasing proximity of Europe and the breakdown of prosaic formal orthodoxies. Camouflage-print boots are not yet the archetype, but much of what Bartlett showed with them -- fitted sweaters, tapered trousers, full-skirted long coats in military drab -- is within the ken of normal guys, if they can wear it with just a little bit of bravado.
Bartlett himself is the paradigm of the new designer. He is neither extravagant nor mincing. He dresses modestly, mixing his own designs with old jeans and worn sweaters. He is more refined than Seventh Avenue, and less focused on refinement than Paris couture. Neither he nor his clothing has that mannered touch so long associated with designers and their production. He's good-looking, has a wonderful sense of the instant impact of appearance, sports an ironic smile and is in many ways a typical, stylish, well-educated guy of the American upper-middle classes. He is also an openly gay man whose sensibility is informed but not defined by his sexuality.
"Gays are so mainstream now," Bartlett complains. "They don't want to be seen to dress in a particular way -- it's like this weird reverse homophobia." As gays have tried to look straight, straight men have been liberated to wear clothes that were once "too gay" for them. Looks that were exclusively identified with homosexuality -- jeans that fit, boots on people who aren't from Texas, white sneakers kept white, sweaters tucked in at the waist, the witty use of color -- continue to trickle up. "I'm designing," Bartlett says, "for men who are attractive and want to be attractive, and those men come with more and more different identities and ways of life, but they all want to be sexy -- or they have girlfriends or wives or boyfriends who buy their clothes and want them to be sexy."
Bartlett is currently in the "fashion darling" position that the American media have accorded to designers such as Isaac Mizrahi and Todd Oldham, a position indicative of both talent and charm, if not always success. He has had bushels of press this year ("Bartlett attracts hype the way linen attracts wrinkles," Time observed in August), all of which emphasizes his fabulous progress from a childhood in simple American street clothes to an adulthood in high-style duds modeled on simple American street clothes. He was born into the Cincinnati working class; discovered the Salvation Army when he was 16; studied sociology at Harvard (class of '85); went on to the London School of Economics; dropped out after two weeks to "pursue a more pressing education in London's street fashion"; returned to the United States; enrolled at the Fashion Institute of Technology; worked at Willi Wear (hip); then at Ronaldus Shamask (sumptuous); and at last set up, in January 1992, as an independent label in a West Village walk-up (hip and sumptuous).
Recent articles (appearing everywhere from Time to Out to In Style magazines) describe Bartlett's escalating attainment in such improvident terms that one wonders how all the buyers could have fit into that much-vaunted walk-up in the first three months of 1992, and imagines the lesser ones having to camp outside for days in the snow. In fact, Bartlett started out rarefied, designing mostly for gay men. His early collections featured skintight leather pants and muscle shirts based on the 70's gay rag After Dark, or outfits based on what Bartlett drolly describes as the "fantastic sexiness of U.P.S. men" -- chocolate brown and khaki uniforms, with matched pants and shirts replacing the business suit's matched pants and jackets. It is only in the last two years that Bartlett's fame has accelerated dramatically.
In early 1997, he was taken on by Genny Holding, a major international distributor, for his men's line; in April of that year, he showed his first women's collection; and in 1998, Genny announced that he would be creative director of Byblos, the men's and women's international label. He is to revitalize the broadly marketed, sporty Byblos line while continuing to produce "edgier" collections in his own name. Genny has said that it plans to increase sales of the Bartlett label 20-fold over the next three years, while the sales of Byblos designs should run considerably higher. Though he is already and will be a visible women's designer, pulling in his biggest profits from the vast women's wear market, his training, his eye and the quality of his discipline reflect a lifetime of designing for men.
I first met John Bartlett a year ago, a few minutes before the showing of his autumn collection. The models backstage were getting dressed, and one among them -- a strong-jawed man with broad shoulders, a well-honed body and a pair of little glasses that gave him a touch of the shy schoolboy -- was watching the others intently as they pulled on their first outfits. He was wearing old jeans and a faded thermal undershirt on which the Ralph Lauren logo was just visible. Eventually, he stood up, took his runway outfit off the rack, put it down on a chair and unfastened his jeans. In the innocent, sexy moment when they began to slide down, the insider photographer Patrick McMullan snapped a shot. The man protested; McMullan insisted; and finally the man smiled, and, in slower motion, erotic as heck, took off his jeans again, this time allowing the lens to capture each movement of denim articulating the muscles of his thighs. Then he put on his John Bartlett togs -- winter-white flannel multi-seam pants and a white cashmere sleeveless Henley. The eros was gone. The photographer walked away, bored.
The man introduced himself as John Bartlett.
Bartlett's loss of concupiscent charm was the immediate consequence of his shift from the naive to the self-presentational. The usual view is that there is nothing attractive about evident self-consciousness in the dress of a man. Our paradigm of desire and of elegance for men revolves around basics -- the James Dean white T-shirts, beat-up jackets and old Levi's, or the well-pressed white shirt smelling starchily of freshness, with a rep tie and Duke of Windsor classic suit. We like the idea of surprise, and prefer clothing caught off guard (as Bartlett's jeans were) to clothing worn with intent (as his multi-seam pants were). But although the ingenuous is often charming, the disingenuous is monstrous. As Bartlett puts it: "Guys were for so long brought up not to draw attention to themselves physically. But now that ungroomed look is pretty self-conscious."
What we wear is what we have selected, first from stores and then from our closets. In a world of choices, we cannot pretend that standards choose themselves. "Men don't want to look like they think about looking sexy," Bartlett says. Equally, the reverse logic of looking as if you think about not looking sexy has now worn very, very thin, and looking as if you don't think at all is possible only for cretins. "So then what's left is the self-confidence with which you wear your clothes," Bartlett says. And here Bartlett excels: he makes clothing to be worn with a self-confidence it can also impart.
This isn't to say that John Bartlett invented label fashion for men; Sir Hardy Amies and Pierre Cardin designed clothing under their own names half a century ago, and dozens followed in their footsteps. Off-the-peg suits were "a shapeless, terrible affair, made for clerks or accountants so they would look like clerks or accountants," recalls Amies, the author of "The Englishman's Suit" (Quartet Books). In the socially liberated postwar period, clothing became enough to help one "pass as being from a different class," he observes. "This clothing opened doors." Amies fought to open up the closed world of tailoring. "'A fashion show for men?' my backers asked in the 50's," he says. "'That'll just be a convocation of sissies!' But it wasn't. It brought in the bosses of big businesses, who didn't know what was involved in making a decent suit, but knew there was a market for them."
Bartlett adds: "In the 70's, the idea got even bigger. Insecure men started wearing labels because the labels were status symbols in themselves. Designers were all reinventing, and I saw what I wanted to reinvent. Some people work with dandy clothes or preppy things, but my great inspirations are the military, sports, ideas of the masculine. That's always had a broad appeal; different forms of it appeal to different people in every part of the social spectrum -- from the guy who is challenged by dress-down Fridays, which demand that casual wear fit in with formal purposes, to the guy who needs something to wear to go out for an evening that is stylish but not dressy."
This latest revolution in male dress owes a great deal to feminism. As women took over work that was once the province of men, and men began to participate in cooking and child rearing, newly sensitive fellows began to wear facial expressions they had not worn before. By the mid-80's, "healthy" blokes were supposed to cry and to admit fear. Men could be depressed and could talk about it. They could be peacock-vain, too.
Soon, they began to have bodies in a way that had been uncommon for nearly a century. They tried not to be fat. They went to gyms and encouraged their shoulders to be wider than their waists. They went jogging and had strong legs for the sake of having strong legs. The progress has taken time, but those men who can cry and work out are now beginning to dress with the broader range of expression with which they clothe their faces, and the relative deliberateness of effect with which they control their bodies.
"The male customer's eye is getting more educated," Bartlett says. "Designers are getting more information about what guys want to wear. It's a very gradual meeting in the middle."
For the spring collection, now heading into stores, Bartlett produced trousers that someone described as "Lilly Pulitzer on acid" (which makes you wonder where you could find work by Lilly Pulitzer, the originator of floral golf course wear, that seems not to be on acid). He introduced logo-wear and great surfer shorts to his line. He also made wonderful cargo pants, field pants, jodhpurs and ranger pants, wearable stuff with just a little more shape and style in it than the standards on which it is based, all of it complimentary to the oft-neglected calf. Pink windbreakers and khaki jackets completed the look.
In February, Bartlett showed his men's and women's collections together in one show for the first time, with unisex outfits to indicate the coherence of his vision. It's a balancing act, sexual though ungendered, and balancing is his greatest strength.
"The rules and conventions are all being thrown into a salad spinner -- go out to a restaurant, and a guy in jeans will be sitting at a table together with someone in a tailored traditional suit," Bartlett says. "The sexiest people are the ones who mix things up, who will wear things that don't go together, wear vintage with something from Bergdorf's, or whatever. In America, there will always be guys wearing acetate sweat suits at the airport, and I'm never going to change that, but there are a lot of guys who want something that's cool -- as long as it doesn't have three sleeves and floor-length lavender pleats."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Bartlett greeting the enthusiastic crowd after his fall 1998 show, with the steed who played a starring role.; Bartlett's fall presentation sounded a triumphant, soldierly note, complete with a model who rode out on horseback. (Don Ashby); The author wearing his "guerrilla suit," by Bartlett. (Christopher Makos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (90%); HUNGARY (73%); 

COMPANY: JOHN BARTLETT BOOTS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (90%); HUNGARY (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; SPECIAL SECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ARMED FORCES (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); FOOTWEAR (77%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (77%); MEN (74%); HALLOWEEN (73%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (65%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, JOHN; SOLOMON, ANDREW MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



404 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Batteries Not Included

BYLINE: By Sarah Boxer; Sarah Boxer is a reporter for the Arts section of The Times.

 BODY:

The Technology of Orgasm
 "Hysteria," the Vibrator,
 and Women's Sexual Satisfaction.
 By Rachel P. Maines.
 Illustrated. 181 pp. Baltimore:
 The Johns Hopkins University Press. $22. 
 The book begins innocently enough. The author, Rachel P. Maines, a historian of needlework, is riffling through old copies of Modern Priscilla, Needlecraft and Woman's Home Companion when suddenly she spies them: advertisements for vibrators in the year 1906.
Imagine that. The electric vibrator was invented right after the electric sewing machine, fan, teakettle and toaster, and before the electric vacuum cleaner, the electric iron and the electric frypan. Who knew that everyone cared so deeply about women's pleasure? Deeply enough to put it before a clean house and crisp shirts and just after evenly toasted toast.
In 1918 Sears, Roebuck & Company offered a vibrator attachment for a home motor that would also drive a churn, a mixer and a sewing machine. Two models of portable vibrators were described as "Such Delightful Companions" in 1922. Still another advertisement promised, "All the pleasures of youth . . . will throb within you."
Alas, the invention of the vibrator had nothing to do with love in the afternoon or sexual liberation. It was originally a labor-saving device to help doctors give their female patients a "hysterical paroxysm" -- that is, an orgasm.
What in the world were doctors doing vibrating their female patients to orgasm? The simple answer is that their fingers got tired. The complicated answer is delivered in Maines's short, stimulating, repetitive and occasionally frustrating book, "The Technology of Orgasm: 'Hysteria,' the Vibrator, and Women' s Sexual Satisfaction."
The vibrator, Maines argues, is the last in a long line of devices and techniques that were used to combat hysteria. Beginning with Hippocrates and running through Galen, Avicenna, Paracelsus, Pare, Burton and Harvey, all the way up to the mid-20th century, doctors fought valiantly against this terrible disease. The trouble was that the disease they were fighting, Maines explains, was ordinary female sexual desire. The classic symptoms of hysteria -- "anxiety, sleeplessness, irritability, nervousness, erotic fantasy, sensations of heaviness in the abdomen, lower pelvic edema and vaginal lubrication" -- are the symptoms of chronic arousal.
If this was hysteria, the recommended therapies made perfect sense. In the 16th century, married hysterics were advised to "bee strongly encountered by their husbands." For single women, widows, nuns and unhappily married women, "the cure was effected by vigorous horseback exercise, by movement of the pelvis in a swing, rocking chair or carriage." But the most common therapy, summed up in 1653, was having a doctor or midwife "massage the genitalia with one finger inside, using oil of lilies, musk root, crocus" or something similar. "And in this way the afflicted woman can be aroused to the paroxysm." The best cures were supposed to be those in which the patient felt both pleasure and pain.
The basic treatment remained unchanged for a couple of thousand years. And in all that time, Maines writes, "only a handful of the medical authorities who advocated female genital massage as a treatment for hysteria" ever "acknowledged that the crisis so produced was an orgasm."
Why not? If doctors had admitted they were sex slaves, they would have had to give up what Maines calls the "androcentric paradigm of sexuality," the idea that sex is a two-step process -- penetration and male orgasm -- and that this is enough to bring most women to orgasm too. Although most women (approximately 70 percent, according to Shere Hite and others) do not reach orgasm this way and need some sort of direct clitoral stimulation to get there, the androcentric model has persisted, Maines suggests, because it is convenient for men. How much easier to blame women for their own frustration, to call them frigid or hysterical and send them to doctors, than to trouble men with the drudgery of female arousal while they are enjoying themselves.
The diagnosis of hysteria had an added benefit. Hysterics, as one doctor pointed out, "were an economic godsend to the profession of medicine." They formed "a circle of 'everlasting patients.' " But there was a drawback too. Physicians apparently did not like performing genital massage. Their fingers got tired and they often had difficulty sustaining "the treatment long enough to produce results."
To help with this exhausting task, doctors had the assistance of massaging midwives, wind-up vibrators or "percuteurs," jolting chairs, tissue oscillators, hydrotherapy, muscle beaters, ascending douches, vaginal electrodes and pneumatic equipment. That is where the electromechanical vibrator comes in.
Designed in the late 1870's (there is some dispute about the actual inventor), the vibrator was the last in a line of labor-saving devices. But it survived the disease it was supposed to cure. In 1952, when the American Psychiatric Association finally struck hysteria from its list of mental illnesses, the vibrator did not die.
Maines supports her thesis with thorough, original and surprising if sometimes ill-organized research. There is, however, one serious flaw in her argument. That is the "androcentric model." Contrary to this model, doctors often pointed to male inadequacy and female sexual dissatisfaction as the causes of women's malaise (as Maines points out). And plenty of people paid attention to female orgasm. In Tudor and Stuart England, for example, many physicians saw "the clitoris as the principle locus of sexual pleasure" and believed female orgasm was an "incentive for women to risk their lives in pregnancy." So it seems likely that more than "a handful of medical authorities" knew they were performing sexual favors for their patients.
Maines, who says she was "a very angry feminist" when she started this book, sees phallocentrism everywhere. And in that she is right. But does that mean every phallic object and action is suspect? She derides the 13th-century doctors who recommended that widows and nuns use dildoes. And she condemns physicians who "were apparently comforted by the unsupported assumption that most women" masturbate "by some means approximating coitus." In battling phallocentrism, she refuses to give an inch to the penis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TECHNOLOGY OF ORGASM, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (73%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (69%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (89%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); HISTORY (72%); MARRIAGE (60%); 

PERSON: BOXER, SARAH; MAINES, RACHEL P RACHEL P MAINES (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



405 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Steeler

BYLINE: By Holly Brubach; Holly Brubach's new book, "Girlfriend: Men, Women and Drag," will be published next month.

 BODY:

Singing the City
 The Bonds of Home in an Industrial Landscape.
 By Laurie Graham.
 182 pp. Pittsburgh:
 University of Pittsburgh Press. $22.95. 
 THE particular landscape that serves as the backdrop for our childhood -- the topography, the buildings, the trees, the light -- imprints itself forever on our memory: it is the norm with which we will compare every landscape we encounter for the rest of our lives. Laurie Graham goes so far as to contend that a landscape can work its way into our DNA. Hence, she claims in "Singing the City," her sense of coming home when she moved to Pittsburgh, where previous generations of her family had lived -- though she herself had grown up in Chicago.
With the death of her husband in 1989 when she was not quite 50, Graham vowed to make a fresh start. Leaving New York and her job as an editor at Scribner, she moved to Pittsburgh, where she fell in love -- first with the industrial culture that she found there and soon after with a former steelworker. Her chronicle of the early, halting stages of their courtship is intertwined with an account of the demise of Big Steel and its profound effect on the lives of people for whom the mills provided the foundations of community. Graham is evenhanded in distributing the blame. The devastation, she argues, is not only economic but moral, and it extends to other American cities -- Buffalo, Youngstown, Cleveland, Baltimore, Chicago -- that are likewise faced with the decline of heavy industry.
This book is perhaps best appreciated in the context of two others about Pittsburgh: "An American Childhood," Annie Dillard's superb memoir of her early years in Squirrel Hill, a prosperous neighborhood within the city limits, and "American Elegy," Jeffrey Simpson's eloquent investigation into his family's life in Parnassus, a small town in Pittsburgh's shadow. Both Dillard and Simpson chronicle the peculiarities of the relentless Calvinism that held sway among descendants of the city's early settlers, Scotch-Irish immigrants who established a Presbyterian stronghold and emerged as the ruling class. Graham rounds out the picture by delineating the work ethic of the city's minorities, mostly Eastern European and Roman Catholic. While Dillard's and Simpson's reminiscences are rooted in the sediment of personal memory, Graham's portrayal relies for its depth on other people's recollections.
As a newcomer to the city, she interviews longtime residents of neighborhoods like Polish Hill and Homestead, in which the bonds of church and family are inextricably tied to the virtues of manual labor. "Blue-collar people think that if you don't want to work you get a desk job," Graham's new husband, Bob, explains. She champions those who have stayed where they were born and perpetuated the values they inherited, among them Sharon Wolkiewicz and her mother, Helen. "Helen says she is 'embedded here,' " Graham reports. Sharon asks, "How could you just move away and call another place home?"
Graham introduces the reader to Diane Novosel, the granddaughter of Croatian and Romanian immigrants, who "dropped out" in her early 20's; she "tried popular culture and it wasn't enough." Novosel is now the head of the Society for the Preservation of the Murals of St. Nicholas, a church in Millvale whose interior is painted with scenes that conflate peasant life in rural Croatia, Bible stories and the Homestead strike of 1892, coming to the rescue of a local past that many natives -- myself included -- have taken for granted if not dismissed altogether.
The Pittsburgh I grew up in -- a Pittsburgh that predates Graham's arrival by some 30 years -- was the proud capital of vast business empires, the headquarters for United States Steel, Alcoa, Westinghouse, Gulf Oil and Pittsburgh Plate Glass. All its prominent features -- the smokestacks, the skyscrapers and trestle bridges, the highways cut into the rock face, the strip-mined cliffs, the row houses that climb the mountainsides like stairs -- attested to hard work. The peculiar gray cast of the light served only to intensify the lingering impression of dinginess, attributable not to neglect but to the climate of diligence and moral austerity.
Beauty resided elsewhere -- in Ligonier's rolling countryside 50 miles to the east or in New York's glittering skyline or in pastoral France, which had supplied the raw material for masterpieces by Monet and Cezanne. Pittsburgh had been immortalized by its own painter, John Kane, and as a young art student I remember thinking what a shame it was that he had squandered his obvious talents on a place where there was nothing to look at.
Within the past 20 years, in Pittsburgh and elsewhere, train stations have been converted to shopping malls and factories to residential lofts. The industrial esthetic now reigns supreme in everything from museum architecture to bathroom fixtures; Pittsburgh's brand of beauty, resplendent in things whose forms have been entirely dictated by their functions, has come into its own -- just as those things are being rendered obsolete. On occasion, Graham's appreciation for Pittsburgh's history is subsumed by acute nostalgia for a time before the layoffs and the closings, when the "bonds of home" referred to in the subtitle were still intact.
The desire to go backward, rowing against the currents of change, the longing for an enclave in which the old order still prevails, seem benign enough until this tribute to manual labor strays into the realm of men's supremacy and their entitlement. Graham quotes the "poet and steelworker" Tim Russell: "There is something great about sitting in an easy chair, next to your father in his easy chair, eating a plate of food, watching a bowl game on TV. It isn't the food or the game that matters but the extreme bond of family. . . . Men are in front of the firelight of the TV, women are in the kitchen comparing notes about kids. It's a good thing knowing you have that place." I guess it must be. I wouldn't know. I was washing the dishes.
The sheer physicality of the labor that Graham extols culminates in the image of surging molten steel as a metaphor for sexual potency. Indeed, "Singing the City" is a veritable anthem to virility. The Pittsburgh it portrays is a mythic town, the furnace of the gods stoked by plain-spoken blue-collar guys with good hearts. The furnace is cold now, the guys at a loss. To cure what ails us, Graham would rekindle those fires. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SINGING THE CITY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PLATE GLASS (95%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); RELIGION (85%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (66%); ETHICS (64%); LITERATURE (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); 

PERSON: BRUBACH, HOLLY; GRAHAM, LAURIE LAURIE GRAHAM (95%); JEFFREY SIMPSON (58%); ANNIE DOAK DILLARD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



406 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 7; Column 1; Retirement 

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: I Like It Here. The House Is Paid For. I Think I'll Stay!

BYLINE: By JOY ALTER HUBEL; Joy Alter Hubel is a freelance writer living in Long Island.

DATELINE: MASSAPEQUA, N.Y.

 BODY:
AS a checkered grid of modest-sized homes, schools and strip malls that sprang from the post-World War II housing and baby boom, this Long Island town is typical of where middle-class America grew up. Now, it is typical of where middle-class America grows old.
Twenty-one percent of the town's 40,000 residents are age 60 and older. That ratio will increase in Long Island, and nationwide, when baby boomers begin turning 60 in less than a decade and do what most aging workers before them have done -- retire in place. Results from a 1996 housing survey, conducted by the American Association of Retired Persons (A.A.R.P.), found that 83 percent of respondents age 50 and older said they preferred retiring in or near the homes where they currently live. 
 Many people retire in place out of financial necessity. Affordable retirement communities have been scarce in the suburbs, although Leon Harper, housing specialist for the A.A.R.P., believes this is changing. "The retirement industry has been following the economically elite, those 8 percent to 12 percent that can afford to do and go where they want," Mr. Harper said. "We are starting to see the industry build retirement housing in suburbs so that people can move within close proximity."
For most older workers, however, retiring in place means choosing the known over the unknown. "It's where people have probably been for many years, with a network of friends, familiarity with neighbors and surroundings and contact with churches or synagogues," said David Stern, the executive vice president of Jewish Association for the Aged. Many people also feel more economically secure, he observed.
"If we moved to Florida, we would not be able to bond with our grandchildren," said Nancy Cherniak, 63, who with her husband, Arnold, 68, owned a children's and ladies' apparel store. "My husband had to be in the store 6 or 7 days a week. We never traveled. Now we can go in the middle of the week to attend my grandson's basketball game or my granddaughter's school parties."
The problem arises when the requisites of suburban life -- driving, snow shoveling, home repair -- are beyond an older person's abilities. "Public transportation in the suburbs is criminal," said Emma Phillo, an 83-year-old retired homemaker. She said her life style is dependent on her ability to drive to movies, beaches, medical appointments. She also visits her son in Princeton, N.J. The day she can no longer drive, she said, is the day she will move near her children.
Ms. Phillo, who watched her husband deteriorate from Parkinson's disease and her mother from Alzheimer's, takes a dim view of many of the social and recreational amenities offered to retirees. "These trips to Atlantic City, for example, is like saying there is no place for older people in the real world," she said. "We should be more involved in political and civic groups. There are so many issues we should be paying attention to, like medical costs, or the way people in nursing homes get treated."
One way to better anticipate, and fulfill retirees' needs is to identify where older people are concentrated. In many pockets in Nassau County, retirement-age adults account for more than half the population. Social service providers increasingly define these buildings or neighborhoods as "naturally occurring retirement communities," or N.O.R.C.s, and see them as tools for turning retirees into pressure groups working in their own behalf.
"Think of a homeowners' association -- one that no longer addresses parks and schools, but the unique needs of older people," said Mr. Stern. N.O.R.C. residents could develop co-operatives, for example, through which to contract services, like transportation, home aid or snow removal. Co-op members would realize not only greater financial savings through group rates, but also more reliable service through the power of numbers, he explained.
Local governments are also trying to help older residents maintain an independent life style. In towns like Massapequa, handicapped ramps, adult residences and retirement programs are already as commonplace as basketball hoops, Cape Cod homes and after-school programs. "Ever since the late 80's, we've become more involved in senior programs," said John Venditto, the town supervisor of Oyster Bay, of which Massapequa is a part. "We provide these programs because it's what our residents want. But we can't anticipate what their future needs will be until we're there."
The town currently offers free or low-cost concerts, artist series and a roster of recreational and educational programs available through community centers, schools, parks, beaches and libraries. The area is host to dozens of retirement clubs, no-fee organizations that arrange low-cost trips from museum visits to baseball games. Older residents can also attend any of 10 academic institutions within a 10-mile radius. Many offer special programs at reduced tuition rates for retirement-age adults.
MOST recently, Massapequa inaugurated a free bus service that brings retirees to shopping destinations every two weeks. Critics say the service doesn't go far or frequently enough.
Yet several town programs are in place to bring some relief to older constituents with greater needs. Oyster Bay's Intergovernmental Affairs Department recently introduced a residential rehabilitation program. Eligible town residents over 60 who meet Federal guidelines -- annual incomes under $36,500 for single homeowners and $39,500 for couples -- can apply for loan assistance for home improvement projects.
A real property tax relief program for eligible residents over age 60, coupled with New York State's recently introduced School Tax Relief program, helps retirees reduce their tax base by thousands of dollars. New S-2 Golden Age Zoning provides tax incentives to developers who build affordable retirement complexes.
But for most of Massapequa's older town residents who own small homes, expenses are manageable and resources abundant. Many, like Joe and Flo Newman -- both are 70 -- can live comfortably, though frugally, on $3,000 to $4,000 a month.
Mrs. Newman is a retired secretary; Mr. Newman operated a nighttime delivery route for The Daily News, before retiring nine years ago. "He worked nights, I worked days and we hardly saw each other," Mrs. Newman said. The fact that they are very much involved in the community, and have something to do every day, makes their retirement succeed, she said. So does their small, three-bedroom ranch, which they treat "like a comfortable apartment," she said. Mr. Newman volunteers for the firehouse; Mrs. Newman chairs the community service division for a chapter of Brandeis University's National Women's Committee.
They are active in retirement clubs, religious organizations, study groups and museum and library programs, much of which is free of charge. Their one indulgence, they said, is travel. Since retiring, they have visited China, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Antarctica, Alaska and Thailand.
Helen Schneider, 74, who retired with her husband, Hal, 13 years ago, also decided that there is no place like home -- at least for now. "Because of our good health, these are happy times for us," Mrs. Schneider said.
She donates her time as a counselor for a senior referral service and at her local library. She also does charity work for her church and is an active member in her local civic association. Her recreational outlets include painting, bridge and travel.
Mr. Schneider, 78, and a former international sales representative for King Syndicated Features, plays bridge, belongs to a writing and discussion group at the Massapequa Public Library and volunteers for various charities. The Schneiders also spend time on the road, visiting their five children and 12 grandchildren.
Yet they are rooted in Massapequa and would not consider relocating closer to family. "We like our neighborhood, its appearance, our big back yard and our neighbors," Mr. Schneider said. "We've seen the same faces of the same people going and coming for the last 30 years."
And when they can no longer drive or care for their property? "We haven't thought about that yet," Mr. Schneider said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mildred Greco and Elmer Puskan swirl together at a Valentine's Day dance at the Milleridge Cottage in Jericho, L.I., organized by the Massapequa division of senior services. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: I THINK I (61%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION (56%); AARP INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; AGED RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); AGING (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBURBS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); AGING TRENDS (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (67%); RELIGION (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (62%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (61%); BASKETBALL (60%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (60%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: HUBEL, JOY ALTER LEON HARPER (56%); DAVID STERN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



407 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 11; Column 1; Retirement 

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: On the Rainy Days in Mesquite, There's Always Politics

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SMITH; Christopher Smith is the roving reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune.

DATELINE: MESQUITE, Nev.

 BODY:
STEELY-EYED Mormon pioneers look down from yellowing portraits on the wall as Verde Hughes thumbs through a 40-year-old album of baby pictures, delivery room photographs from the days when the rock bungalow that is now the Desert Valley Museum was a one-room hospital.
"This was good enough for folks then, but I guess now we need something new," sighed Mrs. Hughes, the 80-year-old historian of this farming town-turned-retirement haven east of Las Vegas. "But I won't go to any hospital. Last time I was in a hospital was when my babies were born. I've never been back and never will. Don't need no hospital." 
 The hardscrabble life of settlers who coaxed cotton from unforgiving rusty earth here a century ago has given way to air-conditioned golf carts whirring down palm-lined paths of impossibly green golf courses. Named after a tree that some American Indian tribes burned to summon friendly spirits, Mesquite has bloomed from 1,960 residents in 1990 to an estimated 13,500 today. A retirement boomtown, it is luring newcomers with an annual average of 310 days of sunshine, low taxes, new casinos, cheap utilities and little violent crime.
Like golf, politics is an activity best pursued by those with plenty of time. And the fingerprints of retirees on the local agenda run from a proposed ordinance to allow golf carts ("enhanced" with headlights and turn signals) the same rights on city streets as autos, to a campaign against a new $6 million recreation center because the city would not designate separate swim times or activity rooms for seniors and youngsters.
The newcomers have precipitated a political, cultural and social shift that, Mrs. Hughes said while glancing at the pioneer portraits, "probably has these old grandpas turning over in their graves right now."
Local elections are still more than two months off, but already the defining issue is the elder community's call for a full-service hospital. After bankruptcy closed an urgent-care medical clinic last year, some retirees put their homes up for sale, because the nearest hospital is a 36-mile ambulance ride away, through a twisting river gorge.
Faced with the prospect of spending taxpayer money to subsidize a small-town hospital, city officials are wondering: If they have come, must we build it?
"The seniors demand it and say they deserve it," said Mayor Ken Carter, whose recent proposal for a city-built clinic was shot down because it wouldn't offer a 24-hour emergency room. "But some of them don't realize this could take the city right down the tubes."
Or it could jettison the Mayor. With one of Mr. Carter's challengers running on a call for taxpayer subsidies for a new hospital, the political force of the retiree population is being felt at city hall -- which has had three city managers in the last five years -- like an Arizona cloudburst, the colloquial term for a whirling dust devil.
"Hands down, the number one desire of the retired people in this community is a 24-hour emergency care health center," said Alice Fessenden, who retired as a school principal in northern Utah in 1986, moved here in 1992 and became the first "newcomer" elected to the city council, in 1994. "We've got affluent people coming in, some building $700,000 homes, and it's time we did something about health care."
Much of the strain stems from simple growing pains.
"Used to be, people came to this old desert looking for a place to hide out," 90-year-old J. L. Bowler said as his shiny red Lincoln sped along the four lanes of Mesquite Boulevard, which until seven years ago was the only paved street in town. "When I opened my general store in 1946, I had to start the chamber of commerce because I needed more customers to move here just to keep my place open."
Mr. Bowler pointed out the new shopping plaza, elementary school and park all named in his honor. Prosperity came as the southern Nevada village struck a Comstock Lode of silver-haired seniors and urbanites seeking a small town utopia in which to raise a family.
"This new growth has brought in a lot of troubled families, who were trying to get their kids away from gangs by moving here," said Dena Hoff, who works at the local high school. "But there's not much for kids to do here; it's mostly geared to adults and seniors. That's why I feel the new recreation center is going to be nice."
Some retirees, however, are not thrilled with the almost-completed recreation center, arguing that some of the money could have been better spent on a new building just for them. Older residents currently meet for weekday lunches in a dilapidated old gymnasium. "We've had to keep pounding it to people that this is not just a youth center; it's a place for everybody in the community to gather," Mayor Carter said. "Seniors wanted us to designate a couple of rooms for seniors only and to have separate swim times for seniors, and we said we weren't going to do that."
At city council meetings, older residents regularly ask the city to install stoplights on Mesquite Boulevard. "Older folks are very concerned about young people driving too fast," said Mayor Carter. When the first traffic signal in the town's history was installed there last year, it prompted a parade. But others were not celebrating.
"I can't tell you how many locals said they were moving away when that stoplight went up," Ms. Hoff said. "People are saying, 'Why are you trying to make this town more like the town you left?' "
It's not just the influx of new people that is unsettling, said William Riebsame, a geography professor at the University of Colorado and general editor of Atlas of the New West. It is the importation of new ideas and traditions.
"That's the story no matter if the invaders are gray panthers or 25-year-old techno whizzes," he said. "It is going to be especially prevalent with dispersed retiree settlement in the Western states, which are becoming the new Florida."
Mesquite was founded by Mormons who were dispatched here in 1879 by church leaders to start a cotton plantation. Today, Mormons represent only about 25 percent of the town's population, a shift reflected in the recent defeat of a city council resolution seeking to impose strict limitations on the sale, display and use of tobacco products. The opposition was led by Ms. Fessenden, the only woman and non-Mormon on the city council. "I'm not a smoker, but I respect their rights," she said.
Ms. Fessenden said that her political career began by accident. She wrote a letter to the editor of the local newspaper in 1994 warning city officials about redevelopment plans possibly hurting school funding. "The next thing I knew," she recalled, "I had 20 people in my living room urging me to run for the city council."
She added: "Never in my wildest dreams of retirement did I imagine that I would be touring a sewer plant, let alone being proud it is the best one in the state."
Ms. Fessenden's newcomer status has not stopped her from calling for control in the construction rush of homes and commercial buildings overtaking the farm fields that still surrender six cuttings of alfalfa annually.
DRAWN to Mesquite by its climate and by Nevada's lack of a state income tax, Ms. Fessenden, a widow, has pushed for greater city support of cultural activities. Special events have ranged from a chili cookoff and arts festival to concerts by the Vienna Boys Choir and the Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra.
With a master's degree in management, she also has been part of an effort to "clean up" some of the vestiges of a small-town government that many residents -- new and old alike -- believe was corrupt.
"Greed gets in the way of good judgment," said Guy Faught, a 54-year-old school maintenance worker who sits in the front row of virtually every city hearing and council meeting, armed with a tape recorder and a sharp tongue.
A child when his family moved to Mesquite, Mr. Faught plans to actively campaign on behalf of a newcomer -- Charles Horn, a retired schoolteacher from Las Vegas -- for mayor in the upcoming election.
But even Mr. Faught's support of the newcomers is balanced by resentment over the effect the invasion has had on his own retirement plans.
"Ten years ago I would have said right here, this is my dream place to retire," he said. "But in these last few years my property taxes went up 500 percent because of inflation in the land values, and I've lost so many freedoms, I don't know how to tell you."
Now, his plan is simple. "I have six acres next to a freeway exit," he said. "And when the time is right and I stand to profit, I'll sell it. Then I'll try to find someplace to retire that has the life style I lost here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Mesquite, Nev., golf courses bloom where Mormon pioneers grew cotton. Richard Heintzelman's $11,000 cart can do 25 m.p.h. (Lin Alder for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DESERT VALLEY ASSEMBLY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MESQUITE (NEV); UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGED; RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSISTED LIVING GOLF (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); HISTORY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CASINOS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); CITIES (75%); FINGERPRINTING (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); ELECTIONS (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (52%); VIOLENT CRIME (51%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CHRISTOPHER KEN CARTER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



408 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 10; Column 2; Retirement

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Building a Nest Egg: An Exercise in Constant Guesswork

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
HERE is a secret about the perfect retirement plan: It doesn't exist.
Here is another secret about all retirement plans: They are educated guesses, because they deal with that most unpredictable of things, the future. 
 Long ago, sea captains had to plot courses based on estimates of wind, tide and currents, set against faulty or nonexistent charts. Explorers often set out without knowing where they were headed, or how long it would take.
We are all in the same boat, but our task is simpler: not to run out of supplies.
"The biggest fear of the elderly is: What if I outlive my money?" said Raymond G. Russolillo, the director of personal financial services for PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Jerry Mason, who teaches family financial planning at Texas Tech University in Lubbock, put it another way: "I don't think there is much correlation between money and happiness above a certain point -- but if you wind up on the welfare rolls, there is."
Complicating the picture is the best news possible about retirement: it doesn't end as soon as it used to.
Most experts urge a person considering retiring early, at age 55, to accumulate resources sufficient to last 30 years. In contrast, according to Ernst & Young, the accounting and consulting firm, that person's parents typically had only a 20-year retirement and their great-grandparents, a 5-year retirement.
What that means is that financial preparation is more of a process than a blueprint. Think of it as a series of midcourse corrections, to be made periodically or as personal circumstances and the economy change.
 
Retirement Quiz
Here is a short list of questions that sketch out the kind of factors involved:
* How long are you likely to live? Unanswerable, of course, but important. A starting point for that consideration is the life-expectancy tables published by MetLife and others (men who have reached 65 can expect to live another 15.9 years; women, 19). Family history and personal health should also be considered.
* How much money do you need each year? A rule of thumb is 70 percent or 80 percent of current annual cash flow, but it is better to do a careful individual cash flow analysis. A couple moving to a Florida condominium, for example, may have a very different situation from people who want to keep living in their large family home in Westchester County.
* How much will come in from pensions and Social Security?
* How much of a nest egg will be needed to make up the difference? This requires projections for inflation and rate of return on investment.
 
Mistakes Not to Make
One area of certainty, at least to financial planners, is the mistakes they see.
Mr. Russolillo cautions that one of the most serious errors in recent years has been fostered by the stock market boom. "People assume they are going to get 20 or 25 percent in the market because they have over the last few years," he said. "I always try to pull them back and think of 8 percent before tax," a figure that is more warranted by history than are the red-hot returns of recent years.
Martin Nissenbaum, the national director of retirement planning for Ernst & Young, said another common error among retirees is to let safety over-dominate their investment strategies. Many people move their assets into fixed income investments (bonds or other debt instruments) as they approach retirement, he said, seeking to avoid the risk of volatile stock markets. "But you have to continue looking for growth," so your nest egg can expand to modern longer lifespans. And that essentially means keeping a substantial part of your assets in stocks.
Avery E. Neumark, a principal in the accounting firm of Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company and the firm's director of employee benefits, offers a rough guideline for asset allocation: 120 minus your age equals the percentage of assets that should be in stocks; the rest can go into bonds.
Mr. Neumark cited another error, perhaps the most basic of all: "People start focusing on retirement later than they should." He added, "You cannot save enough for retirement because there are always surprises that come in -- inflation, life style."
Are there people who get so anxious that they compulsively save too much? "I have never seen that problem in my whole career," Mr. Neumark said.
Professor Mason, a former director of education for the International Association for Financial Planning, advises people to begin by putting away money systematically in any employer-sponsored plans like 401(k)'s, "because basically, we are all like children in the candy store." Money in our jeans will be spent. If it is withheld before we get it, we may be able to adjust our life styles to fit the take-home pay and leave the savings to grow for later years.
 
Playing Catch Up
People who address the issue relatively late may not be able to save enough in what are known as qualified plans, tax-deferred plans like employer-sponsored pension plans, 401(k) plans and Keogh plans for the self-employed. In that case, Mr. Neumark said, their options are the following:
* Supplement those savings with investments in regular brokerage or mutual fund accounts.
* Think about not retiring so early, or take a new job in retirement.
* Adjust the retirement budget.
One possibility for people who are contributing as much as possible to qualified plans, but who fear they will not have enough, is a tax-deferred annuity -- essentially a mutual fund sold with an insurance wrapper. The downside is that fees run higher than they do for a similar mutual fund.
Mr. Nissenbaum said he occasionally recommends annuities, but noted "you can basically create your own annuity" by investing in an index fund -- a mutual fund that mimics an index like the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index. There is very little current capital gains tax with such a holding, he said, because there is very little portfolio turnover. And when you sell holdings after retirement, capital gains are taxed at favorable rates. In contrast, any money that comes out of qualified plans or I.R.A.'s is taxed as ordinary income.
"What's not good is to have too optimistic a plan," Mr. Neumark said. "I'd rather have a cushion."
Mr. Neumark advises reviewing and updating a plan "no less than annually."
Indeed, when contemplating a 30-year retirement, think back to 1969, when the Dow Jones industrial average closed the year at 800; $15,000 a year was a reasonable middle-class salary, and a new car cost $2,000.
Who would have projected that inflation would gallop into double digits within 10 years and appear almost moribund 20 years after that; that within 25 years downsizing would dominate the corporate landscape, or that medical advances would make 85 a reasonable life expectancy?
This is not to say past is prologue -- just to say that although long-term financial planning is fraught with uncertainties, those who plan, and save accordingly, will surely be in a better position to deal with life's vicissitudes. "I'm amazed at the people I see who have not put a penny away," Professor Mason said, adding, "I think we are soon to see a real inflation of the welfare rolls, 75-year-olds in poverty," citing as an example the elderly man seen bagging groceries at the supermarket.
But remember, time is your ally. It irons out the volatility of the market, while compound growth multiplies your savings. Then, if your rate of withdrawal in retirement is equal to or below your rate of return, you will never run out of money.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Robin Jareaux)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (56%); TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (56%); TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); FAMILY (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (64%); 

PERSON: AVERY E NEUMARK (66%); RAYMOND G RUSSOLILLO (56%); JERRY MASON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



409 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 6; Column 1; Retirement 

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: What Does Joy Schott Want? Wall Street Is Listening

BYLINE: By JON CHRISTENSEN; Jon Christensen is a freelance writer on business and the environment.

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev.

 BODY:
THINKING of starting or investing in a business to serve retired people? The monthly luncheon of the Desert Newcomers, a club for retired women who recently moved to Las Vegas, might be a good place to do market research, except for one hitch. The ladies do not like to talk business. Desert Newcomers is strictly a social club.
But when Joy Schott, 82, reeled off a laundry list of businesses that could serve retirees better, the other women at her luncheon table nodded in agreement at the needs and desires that someone might make money satisfying: 
 "Home nursing so people don't have to go to those horrid institutions."
"Rides to places."
"A handyman to fix the porch light" and other things around the house.
"Entertainment that is not all that right-handed stuff," Ms. Schott said, pulling on an imaginary slot machine.
"And food-catering services."
In fact, Ms. Schott said that she already has a custom cook: "He comes to my house twice a month and makes me a dozen chicken potpies just the way I like them with white meat only, peas and carrots."
Beyond the casinos, Las Vegas is turning into a kind of sprawling focus group for the future. The metropolitan area is growing faster than any other in the country, and the retirement-age population in Las Vegas is a big part of the boom, said Keith Schwer, the director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
Las Vegas was practically designed for the graying of America, with three Sun City retirement communities, 47 golf courses, and cheap food and 24-hour entertainment in the casinos. Overall, the city is bursting with businesses that serve an aging population.
These kinds of businesses offer good investment opportunities, according to Robert J. Farrell, a senior investment adviser with Merrill Lynch in New York. The "aging population" is the most heavily weighted segment of Mr. Farrell's "theme and profile investing" recommendations. Mr. Farrell predicts growth in health care, financial services and advice, health clubs and gyms, golf, travel, home security systems and "death care," or funeral arrangements.
But the growth in the retired population also creates opportunities for small businesses and niche services. In a cramped warren of offices at the Small Business Administration in downtown Las Vegas, volunteers working for the Service Corps of Retired Executives talk to dozens of people each month who are thinking of starting businesses that could serve the retired population here.
"There's a lot of entrepreneurial spirit out there," said Norman A. Schroeder, 63, a retired retailer from Iowa who moved to Las Vegas in 1987. "Lots of people are going into business." Last month, a woman asked for advice about starting an apartment cleaning business. "There are a lot of 55-and-over apartment complexes," Mr. Schroeder observed. "This is a great retirement community." Others have sought Mr. Schroeder's advice about setting up a personal grocery shopping service, a service to transport people to and from doctors' offices and hospitals and an insurance claim processing business.
Mr. Schroeder has also heard some "pretty screwy, weird ideas" too, like a heated toilet seat, and a plastic rod with a sticky end for picking up money from the ground without having to bend over.
"I still have a sample," he said, shaking his head.
The volunteers counsel the majority of people to take their time, he said, get more work experience, save money, line up capital and do more research before making the leap.
"What do people my age need?" is the gist of his advice, Mr. Schroeder said. "Get out and talk to them. Know your market. Providing services to save people time seems to be the crux, anything that solves time or physical needs. That's why there are so many lawn-care services. And it doesn't take much to get started."
Las Vegas is crawling with these most grass-roots of start-up businesses.
Driving around the walled-off residential neighborhoods of Henderson, the fastest-growing suburb in the area, Hal Rothman pointed out a pickup truck filled with garbage cans sprouting rakes and a man with a lawn mower going back and forth across a well-groomed lawn.
"If you want to make money in the future, think of what older people need that you can deliver to them at a reasonable price," said Mr. Rothman, a professor of history at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and a Henderson resident. "It's one of the most exciting sectors of the economy. And what's happening here will become far more common around the country when the baby boom starts to retire."
At 40, Mr. Rothman is just a baby in the baby-boom generation. But he has made a close study of his aging neighborhood. Retired people tend to live in smaller homes, he said, and their yards and gardens show a lot of care compared with those of busy young couples with jobs and children, and toys and bikes scattered round.
But in Mr. Rothman's neighborhood the generations blend. An Alzheimer's center sits cheek by jowl with a 24-hour gym. The surrounding shopping centers have a mix of coffee shops, bookstores, card stores, juice bars and fast-food outlets.
Everybody uses them, said Mr. Rothman, just in different ways at different times. At 7 A.M., the local Starbucks attracts parents on their way to work, he observed, while at midday, stay-at-home mothers come in and, at midmorning and midafternoon, retired folks.
Many businesses offer discounts or tailor their services in other ways to attract older customers. The Hallmark store has a well-stocked section with cards for grandparents. The Taco Bell gives free drinks to people over 65. But some customers seem taken aback when asked, "Are you a senior?" Appealing to the elderly on the basis of their age can be tricky when staying young is their primary goal.
Dave Harris, 62, a retired college administrator, and Betty Ann Montgomery, 60, a retired college professor, live in a three-bedroom house in Henderson, with a pool and a small backyard. Their home is often filled with younger friends, the couple said, and staying young at heart is important to them.
They insist their life style has not changed much since they retired.
But while lounging around the house on a weekday morning in loose sweat pants and sweaters, sipping gourmet tea and coffee, they admit they do spend less on clothes and more on food. "We shop differently because we're not dressing for work," Ms. Montgomery said. "For years, I looked for the best bargains; now it's the best food." A nearby Trader Joe's is her favorite grocery store.
Mr. Harris reluctantly conceded he has stopped golfing. "I was a serious golfer," he said, "but my game is just not there anymore." They employ someone to take care of the yard and someone to clean the pool. They plan to give away half of their assets before they die, and nonprofit organizations like The Nature Conservancy, Planned Parenthood and the American Civil Liberties Union are already benefiting from their largess.
The couple have retirement benefits from six jobs between them, and an investment portfolio that Mr. Harris manages using Schwab's on-line trading service. Mr. Harris also makes travel reservations and orders medicine on line. And they love e-mail.
"We're communicating with people we used to communicate with maybe once a year at Christmas," Ms. Montgomery said. "Now it's once or twice a week."
They use a local Internet service provider, Mr. Harris said, because they can get technical support within an hour.
Mr. Harris has invested in some of the businesses that financial advisers like Mr. Farrell of Merrill Lynch predict will benefit from an aging population. The aging theme covers "such a litany" that the predictions are "bound to be right" some of the time, Mr. Harris said.
And with life styles like their own, retirement covers an increasingly wider spectrum of businesses. "The key," he said, "is who really emerges as the top two or three players in each sector."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman A. Schroeder, a retired retailer-turned-volunteer consultant. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS (NEV); UNITED STATES (98%); NEVADA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); WOMEN (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); AGING TRENDS (89%); AGING (89%); GAMING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); GOLF (78%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); TRENDS (70%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (69%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (69%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (65%); CITIES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (60%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTENSEN, JON; SCHROEDER, NORMAN A NORMAN A SCHROEDER (73%); JOY SCHOTT (69%); ROBERT J FARRELL (61%); HAL ROTHMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



410 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 8; Column 1; Retirement 

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: Older Students Bring New Life to Campuses

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ASHEVILLE, N.C.

 BODY:
AFTER teaching high school Latin for 38 years in Binghamton, N.Y., Nancy L. Hanover retired last fall to the mountains of western North Carolina with a hunger to learn all of those things she could never find time to learn as a working mother of three.
A North Carolina native, she knew she wanted to come home to retire. But her decision to move to Asheville, as opposed to other nearby towns, was influenced heavily by the presence of the Center for Creative Retirement at the University of North Carolina at Asheville. At the Center's College for Seniors, she found a smorgasbord of noncredit courses, some taught by university faculty and some by retirees, that has more than satisfied her intellectual appetite. 
 During the four-week winter term, Ms. Hanover, who is 62, took classes on pre-Columbian South America, practical law for seniors and theater as forum. For the 10-week spring term, she has enrolled in five courses, including Mark Twain, history of Ireland, poetry, the Roman Republic and the female face of heroism.
"I retired to be able to take classes," Ms. Hanover said during a break in a lecture about the culture and archeology of the Incas. "All those years I taught, I took classes that I had to take, but I could never take classes that I wanted to take. There are so many things that I don't know."
In this age of relative affluence and longevity, there are thousands of seniors like Ms. Hanover who are devoting their retirements to learning. And hundreds of colleges and universities are beginning to understand this burgeoning new market. All across the country, colleges are catering to retirees with a broad array of academic programs, cultural offerings, community service initiatives and even housing options.
Ten years ago, there were fewer than 50 colleges with academic programs designed specifically for retirees. Now an estimated 300 colleges have such programs -- known as Institutes for Learning in Retirement -- and they serve more than 60,000 retirees, according to Mary Linnehan, the director of the Elderhostel Institute Network, an association of the institutes.
A related nonprofit organization known as Elderhostel, which is 24 years old, offers thousands of courses at 2,000 colleges, libraries, museums and other locations. Participants must be at least 55. Last year, there were 263,000 enrollments. This spring, seniors can learn to play "The Plucked Dulcimer" or explore "The Art of Quilting" at Alice Lloyd College in Pippa Passes, Ky., or listen to "Women's Voices From the West: Survival on the Northern Plains" at Western Montana College in Dillon.
Scores of other colleges have affiliated, either directly or indirectly, with developers who are building retirement villages on or near their campuses. The developers view the colleges, with their course offerings, libraries, athletic events and performing arts centers, as marketing lures that entice retirees to their communities. The colleges see the seniors as eager students who can help fill concert halls and basketball arenas and, perhaps, include the schools in their estate planning.
In Birmingham, Ala., for instance, the Daniel Corporation has purchased 40 acres from Samford University and is building a retirement community of 120 independent living units, 120 assisted living units and 48 garden homes. The university has agreed to sponsor a lecture series by its professors and to provide access for residents to computer labs, gymnasiums, libraries and cultural and athletic events. The project has already drawn reservations from retired Samford alumni, professors and trustees.
A similar development is being planned at Penn State University on land leased from the school. Retirees there will be able to audit courses, play on the university golf course and swim in its pool. "We're getting reservations from people in Florida who say the weather isn't everything," said Mary Beth Fritz, marketing director for The Village at Penn State. "They want to be around a young atmosphere. They want to be around people who don't just talk about their health."
Indeed, all of the college-based retirement programs respond to the growing demand by retirees for ways to remain mentally and physically active.
"They are retiring a little earlier in many instances and they realize that they can only play so much golf," said Winston M. Fagan, a sociologist at Jacksonville State University in Alabama and an authority on retirement. "They want to keep their minds working, and they draw energy from the college students."
Leon A. Pastalan, a professor of architecture at the University of Michigan and the co-editor of "University Linked Retirement Communities" (Haworth, 1994), said that retirement programs at colleges are helping seniors discover how to make their elder years productive.
"The most critical problem we have with aging in our society is to give people a reason to get up in the morning," Professor Pastalan said. "It's terribly wasteful when we put people out to pasture and tell them that their important days are done."
VIRTUALLY all of the seniors interviewed on the Asheville campus during a two-day visit said they participated both because they were curious about the subject matter and because they wanted to keep their minds agile.
"It keeps us thinking about important things and it is tremendously entertaining," said Dorothy L. Kirschbaum, a 77-year-old retired teacher who moved to Asheville from Pittsburgh in 1982. "It's better than sitting home and watching TV."
Although the prototype for retirement learning was developed at The New School in 1962, the 11-year-old center at U.N.C.-Asheville is considered something of a national model. It prides itself on the diversity and responsiveness of its programs, which attract about 1,500 retirees a year in a county where 45,000 people are 55 or older.
The mountain terrain and temperate climate have long made western North Carolina a haven for retirees. But in recent years, the center has become a factor in numerous retirement relocation decisions.
The heart of the Center for Creative Retirement is the College for Seniors, which typically offers between 35 and 45 courses in each of four terms. Participants pay a $100 fee per term, allowing them to take as many courses as they wish and to use the university's library and fitness center. Most of the courses are taught by retirees, many of them former professors, while a few are taught by university faculty. Topics range from James Joyce's "Dubliners" to tap dancing to basic computer instruction.
On a recent Friday, 35 retirees, some wearing hearing aids and orthopedic shoes, listened intently as Walter Ziffer, a 71-year-old professor of religion at the university, lectured about the competing claims to the city of Jerusalem made by Christians, Moslems and Jews. Some students scribbled diligently in their notebooks, while others nursed cups of coffee and hot chocolate.
One of those seated in an orange-cushioned chair was Jack E. Ingersoll, a 69-year-old former I.B.M. manager, who has taken more than 10 courses since retiring here five years ago. "Education is wasted on the young," he said. "I think you appreciate it more with the experience of life."
Most academic programs for retirees at other colleges follow a similar model, but some are far less structured. At Victor Valley College in Victorville, Calif., for instance, participants in a program called Seniors With Inquiring Minds, or S.W.I.M., meet to discuss topics chosen by their own members, often plucked from their own backgrounds. In one class, a former Hollywood dog trainer explained his craft. In another, class members retrieved artifacts from their attics and then told the stories behind them.
At U.N.C.-Asheville, a compact liberal arts college with 3,100 undergraduates, officials have had great success with intergenerational courses that place 20-year-olds and 70-year-olds in the same classrooms. Ronald Manheimer, the director of the Center for Creative Retirement, recently taught an intergenerational course on "1946: The Meaning of a Year," and used two class participants -- one a World War II submariner and one a Holocaust survivor -- to bring history to life.
The Holocaust survivor, he said, movingly recalled holding his father's hand as they watched German soldiers march into their town. "Instead of the generalizations and abstractions that you get in history, here you could understand how something like this happened in a single neighborhood instead of on a large scale," Mr. Manheimer said. "By bringing together people of different generations, you can capture the transformations in individual lives and how they reflect larger social changes."
The center, which sustains itself on a $400,000 budget through fees and an annual appropriation from the State Legislature, also conducts a lecture series, local tours, community service programs and a retirement weekend that draws 150 prospective retirees to Asheville each spring to explore the benefits of moving here. Another popular program is Leadership Asheville Seniors, which builds a sense of community among new residents by staging discussions with local political, economic and cultural leaders.
"We found we knew more about Asheville after a couple of months than we did about Long Island after 30 years," said Ed A. Argue, a semiretired management consultant who moved with his wife from Westbury two years ago.
The center has become so popular that it is now trying to raise $3 million to construct a building of its own. The university has donated 5.5 acres of land, a local foundation has offered a $1.25 million challenge grant and the retirees themselves are hustling to raise the rest of the money.
Mr. Manheimer predicts that as the baby boom generation moves into retirement, centers like his will gain permanence on campuses around the country. "This is the wave of the future," he said. "This is where the country's going to be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Parkfor studies theater at the University of North Carolina, Asheville. (Donna Bise for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AGED HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); AGING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); THEATER (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); QUILTS & QUILTING (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN NANCY L HANOVER (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



411 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 1; Column 1; Retirement 

LENGTH: 2382 words

HEADLINE: Not an Age, but an Expanding State of Mind

BYLINE: By ROBERT W. STOCK 

 BODY:
FOR three years now, ever since abandoning a full-time job at age 66, I've been keeping track of the responses from friends and acquaintances to the statement, "I'm retired." In general, younger people have congratulated me on my new-found freedom: "You're a lucky guy!" The reaction from older people has been more reserved, even concerned: "What are you going to do with yourself? How will you manage?"
We all think we know what the word retirement means but our definitions vary wildly, and they are mostly wrong. We have been misled by a host of retirement myths. Among them: Retirees happily leave their jobs at age 65 and never work again. They live on their pensions, with a little help from Social Security. They either (1) Spend a few years playing cards until it's time for the nursing home, or (2) Endlessly travel the world while starting new businesses and rediscovering romance. 
 In fact, virtually everything about the way Americans retire and think about retirement has changed over the last few decades, and there is more change on the way. The baby boomers, who start entering their 60's seven years from now, say they are going to have the most exciting and fulfilling retirements ever, though just how they will pay for them is something of a mystery.
Daniel Perry, the executive director of the Alliance for Aging Research, a nonprofit organization in Washington, takes the long view. "Until this century," Mr. Perry said, "retirement was for the rich. Everybody else worked until they dropped. Social Security and Medicare made for retirement, and improvements in benefits enabled people to retire at a younger and younger age. Now, with improved health and longevity, it looks as though we may be moving back toward a longer-than-ever working life."
Something strange has happened: The decades-long decline in the age of retirement has come to an abrupt halt. And for many retirees, the next stage has become not the rocking chair but another, easier, often part-time job.
The notion that your arrival at age 65 automatically ushers you into retirement was fostered by large companies, which took that occasion to hand you a pension and show you the door. But the majority of workers labored for smaller companies that offered no pensions and had no mandatory retirement at 65, so that number held no particular charm: They just kept working.
Then the Federal Government weighed in, making 65 the age of eligibility for Social Security benefits in 1935, and Medicare benefits in 1965. Sixty-five was firmly established in our minds as retirement age, even though, as of 1950, 72 percent of all 65-year-old men were still in the labor force -- they had jobs or were actively looking for work.
After the Government programs kicked in, the average age of retirement began to slide down toward 65 -- and then simply kept going south. By 1985, just 30 percent of 65-year-old men were in the labor force. Americans had more money to spend on an early retirement, and Washington made it easier by lowering Social Security eligibility to age 62.
But then, the decline in retirement age halted and even showed signs of creeping back toward 65. Why? Changes in Social Security and private pension plans may be part of the explanation. The outlawing of mandatory retirement in 1986 surely helped. But surveys also suggest a new attitude in the ranks of older workers. "Many 62-year-olds today can look forward to another 15 or 20 years of healthy, active life," said Joseph F. Quinn, an economist at Boston College. "They may not want to quit at 65, or they may want to do their retirement in stages."
Dr. Quinn's research has found that among workers who had left career jobs of at least 10 years, almost half took so-called bridge jobs rather than simply dropping out of the labor force. About 60 percent of the bridge jobs were part-time. "For many Americans, retirement is not a single defining event but a process," Dr. Quinn said. There goes another myth.
In truth, there are almost as many kinds of retirement as there are retirees.
In my case, after 40 years as a writer and editor on the staff of various newspapers and magazines, I retired to my New York apartment. I still write and edit for various newspapers and magazines, and work on occasional books, but I do it all at my own pace, with no one looking over my shoulder -- at least, no one in the same room. Norman Brazee took a different tack. After almost 30 years with Con Edison, where he was a systems analyst, he retired in 1992 at the age of 58. He and his wife, Theresa, a former secretary in the New York State court system, have a home in Avon-by-the-Sea, N.J. They live on their two pensions and two Social Security checks.
"I don't miss work at all," Mr. Brazee said. "I don't have time to work." He is a volunteer driver for two organizations that distribute food to the homebound and the needy. He is helping his fishing club rebuild its headquarters. He is constantly remodeling and repairing some part of his house. He plays golf. "I adore being retired," he said. "It's the most beautiful thing that ever happened to me."
On the other hand, surveys show that up to a quarter of older men who are out of the labor force would leap back in if they could find a suitable job. William H. Mansfield 3d of Bethesda, Md., has retired three times, and at 66, he's still looking for work.
In 1989, he left the State Department, where he had been a foreign service officer specializing in environmental matters. He was hired by the United Nations, but had to retire when he reached 60. His last full-time job was with the Worldwatch Institute, and that ended in the spring of 1997. He has had some consulting assignments since, and he would like more.
"I don't like to say I'm retired," Mr. Mansfield remarked. "I like to think I can keep on working because I enjoyed it a lot."
Money is not a major issue; among other income, Mr. Mansfield has both Federal and U.N. pensions. I asked him for some other reasons why people seek to hang onto their jobs. "Much of their status depends upon the organization and position they hold," he said. "Once that's gone, you are groping around to find out where your status, your distinction, comes from."
Today, the whole sense of what 65 means has been twisted out of shape. "Sixty-five used to be the start of your retirement, your well-deserved rest time," said John Rother, the director of legislation and public policy for the American Association of Retired Persons (A.A.R.P.). "You were officially elderly. Now, it means you're at the peak of your powers in many ways, free of pressing responsibilities like child-raising and with a lot of good years ahead."
That is what Mr. Rother calls the first stage of retirement, which eventually segues into a second stage, when disabilities place new limits on your freedom.
For most men, the first stage now starts before 63; for most women, before 60. And the second stage doesn't arrive until 75 or 80.
Goverment studies show that the financial circumstances of today's retirees, as well as their health, have substantially improved. When asked, they overwhelmingly say they are happy. But this rosy picture glosses over the financial and emotional problems that plague millions of retirees. Another myth exploded.
THOUGH the median income of those 65 and over has doubled in constant dollars since 1962, it still amounts to only $16,000. The majority receive no company pensions. Two out of five get 80 percent of their income from Social Security payments, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Older women in general are twice as likely as older men to be living below or just above the poverty line, and older women living alone are at the bottom of the heap. Their pensions, incomes and assets don't compare to those of single men or married couples. Even their Social Security payments are lower, since they typically have not worked as long nor been paid as much as their male counterparts. And because they last six years longer than men, they worry about outliving whatever savings they have and spending stage two of retirement in a nursing home. In this age of the family diaspora, they often lack a dependable support system.
"I find something missing about retirement," said Kathleen Sheehy, 69, of Manhattan, who has been out of the work force for 16 years. "For one thing, it's better for people with families." During her 35 years as a secretary, she said, she enjoyed the structure work gave to her life, and the office camaraderie. Toward the end, though, she was feeling burned out. When she came into a little money, as she put it, Ms. Sheehy decided that her new inheritance plus her savings would provide for her immediate retirement.
She has spent the years since doing volunteer work and some babysitting -- "for the involvement with people and especially children," she said -- and she has also taken some trips. But she would like to have some kind of regular work again: "a fun job, part-time and not too responsible; maybe as a hostess where I could meet and greet people," she said.
Whatever the kaleidoscopic reality of retirement today, a new public perception is being honed. Men and women with gray hair have invaded ads and sitcoms alike, smiling lovingly at each other from adjoining Nautilus machines, enrolling in peer-taught college courses, marching across Europe on ElderHostel tours. Doctors, columnists and the A.A.R.P. insist that 65 is the start of something great, not the end, if only you will keep mind and body active.
Even the Federal Government is in on it, enacting measures that make work more attractive to oldsters. The age at which you can collect Social Security, no matter how much else you earn, has been cut from 72 to 70. And the amount you can earn before that age, without loss of benefits, is rising gradually from $13,500 to $30,000 by 2002. At the same time, the age at which you receive full retirement benefits will increase over the next quarter century, from 65 to 67.
John Heston, of Hanover, N.H., goes with the flow. At 66, he has been retired from his career in advertising and communications for three years, but his days are full. He does paid consulting; he teaches a class at his alma mater, Dartmouth College, and is an adviser to its alumni magazine. "I can't imagine retiring and doing nothing the way my Dad did," Mr. Heston said. "Now we look for new challenges. We're expected to. It's the spirit of the times."
A somewhat different set of challenges awaits the next retirement generation. Christopher L. Hayes, the chairman of the graduate program in gerontology at Long Island University, Southampton, offers this summary: "Baby boomers are a very present-oriented and self-oriented generation. They have dreams of retiring early, starting new careers, spending more time with family, travel. But they have given little pragmatic thought to how to fund those dreams. So far, the economics are not there."
Part of the problem is that governments and larger companies have been shifting retirement risks and responsibilities onto their employees. Instead of promising you a pension of a particular size, the company sets up a 401(k) plan, agrees to contribute a fixed amount and leaves the investment decisions to you. Your retirement prospects depend upon how much you put in and how well you make those decisions. Many companies are also cutting back their contributions to employee health insurance and cutting off retiree medical benefits. The number of people without health insurance in the United States has been growing at the rate of a million a year.
So the boomers find themselves out on a limb, having to plan and save for their own retirement with little understanding of how to go about it. What they do know is that their children's college education is costing them more than they ever imagined, and that the financial support of their ever-longer-lived parents is going to cost them in the future. They also fear that Social Security and Medicare, the traditional safety nets, will not be there when they make the leap into retirement.
Dr. Hayes wears an extra hat as the director of the National Center for Women and Retirement Research. Together with Scudder Kemper Investments, the center has conducted a three-year study of boomers' attitudes toward and preparation for retirement. Among the results: 70 percent say they are worried about their financial future, and 80 percent say they have made plans to insure a financially secure retirement, but the median investment among those with 401(k)s and similar accounts is only $35,000. According to a Merrill Lynch study, the average boomer couple saves 39 percent of what they would need to carry their current standard of living over into retirement.
FOR today's retirees, as for the boomers, financial security is a key to successful retirement, but it is not the only key. The woods are full of resourceful, resilient retirees who have managed to do more with less. Consider Norman and Maja Weiner of Mount Pleasant, S.C. Mr. Weiner was the Ohio-born manager of an airport in Keflavik, Iceland, back in 1958, when he met his wife-to-be.
"I was 18, he was 27," Maja Weiner recalled recently. "He spoke no Icelandic, but he charmed his way into my life." In short order, they were married and eventually they settled in Comack, L.I., where Mr. Weiner set up a furniture store. They had three children, and after a while, he had three furniture stores. "I had a really comfortable retirement all planned out," he said.
Then Mr. Weiner had to have heart surgery. After liquidating the business, the couple moved to South Carolina. "We could probably get by on what we have," said Mr. Weiner, who is now 68. "But we wouldn't be able to visit our children, or get to Iceland to visit Maja's family."
So Mr. Weiner has taken a part-time sales job at a department store in nearby Charleston. "I work around young people, and I love it," he said. His wife, who is 59, waits on tables three days a week at a local Waffle House. "Retirement, I think, is very boring," she said. "I enjoy being with people, someone other than my husband."
She giggled as she said it, and her husband growled happily in the background.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo illustration by Steve Brown and Andy Chen/The New York Times; numbers photographed by Michael Rogol for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "AT A GLANCE: Aging America"
The number of older Americans is higher than ever, and the percentage of Americans who are 65 and older has steadily increased. The graph shows how many millions of Americans that are 65 and over since 1900. Another graph shows the percent of the population that is age 65 and over since 1910. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); ELDER HEALTH (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); 

PERSON: STOCK, ROBERT W MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



412 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 12; Column 1; Retirement 

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: A Growing Gap Between the Savers and the Save-Nots

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
IN two years, when the first of the baby boomers turn 55 and become eligible for early retirement, a new trend should begin to emerge that will separate the ants from the grasshoppers.
And two decades from now, when half the boomers will have ended their working years, that trend will have grown into a major economic divide, one much bigger than the current split between the few at the top with rising incomes and the many struggling from paycheck to paycheck. 
 The great divide will be wealth. Wealth is not income. Indeed, some people with modest incomes are prodigious savers, while many high-income people save little or nothing.
Wealth will affect how long boomers live (the better off people are, the greater their life expectancy) and how happy they are in retirement, although the relationship between wealth and happiness in retirement is not simple, the few experts who have studied the issue say.
For four decades much of the national debate about economic well-being has focused on incomes and, especially, on their growing disparity: Nearly all real growth has gone to the top 5 percent of workers, while those at the bottom have lost ground.
But now that debate is encompassing wealth. The Ford Foundation, whose grants have had enormous influence on policies affecting the poor, has begun steering academic and Government attention to helping the poor not just by raising their incomes, but by helping them acquire assets, especially savings accounts and homes.
And the disparity in wealth is far greater than in incomes. Four out of five working-age Americans essentially have no wealth, except for equity in their homes, while in 1997 the top 1 percent owned 48.6 percent of all financial assets like stocks and bonds. That is the greatest concentration in the nation's history, said Prof. Edward N. Wolff, a New York University economist who studies wealth.
The most important division among today's retirees is between those who own their own homes and those who don't: homeowners retire with an average net worth of $115,000, while nonhomeowners have $800.
In the years ahead this gap will grow. The ants, the thrifty boomers who have saved and invested, will have plenty of money to spend. Some ants will be able to spend twice as much in retirement as they did in their working years, said Jonathan Skinner, a Dartmouth College economist who studies retirement savings.
But the much bigger group is the grasshoppers, who spend what they earn, whether it is a little or a lot, and are slaves to minimum monthly payments on their plastic debt, have 125 percent mortgages on their homes and who, when they change jobs, dip into their 401(k) savings.
The differences between the current crop of retired ants and grasshoppers are masked by traditional, or defined benefit, pension plans, which guarantee a monthly check for life. Combined with Social Security and home ownership, such pensions have changed retirement in America from a time of widespread poverty four decades ago to an era of comfort for many and golden years for more than a few.
Social Security and Medicare, that other pillar of retirement, are, of course, at the heart of a huge Washington debate. But despite all that well-publicized uncertainty, the baby boomers who start retiring will find the rest of their lives shaped by a change that happened with next to no public discussion: the switch from traditional pensions.
Far fewer boomers have such check-a-month plans than do retirees today. Many of them have changed jobs so often that their pensions will replace only a tiny slice of the incomes in their working years, because these plans bestow most of their benefits on people who stay with one company for their entire career.
Instead, the boomers are much more likely to rely on 401(k) savings plans and other so-called defined contribution plans in which they assume all or most of the risks of investing.
Overly conservative investment choices, too much ownership of employer stock and the fact that 84 percent of people dip into their 401(k) plans each time they change jobs means that in the new world of retirement plans, many boomers will retire with too few resources to live the retirement life they want.
Of course, this system will also produce a few big winners among people who saved a lot or bought stocks that exploded in value.
How much will this matter? Lacking a crystal ball, the best indicator of what this will mean to future retirees is the insight scholars have gained into how money affects the happiness of people nearing retirement and those already retired.
The first finding is that people generally do just fine with less. Most people experience a sharp drop in spendable income when they retire, and most adapt quickly and easily, said Sylvester J. Schieber, the research director for Watson Wyatt Worldwide, a compensation consulting company, and a noted authority on pensions and Social Security.
In general, retirees do well if pensions, Social Security and savings replace 60 percent to 70 percent of their job earnings, percentages that Mr. Schieber said may be a bit higher than what people need simply to feel comfortable.
Problems arise when the drop in income is more severe, especially if it plunges a person down the social ladder.
According to Professor Skinner of Dartmouth, "There are a bunch of people who have done pretty well in terms of getting ready for retirement, some because of good pension coverage and some because of wealth."
But there is a large group of people -- perhaps 20 percent -- who seem to be walking into a brick wall at retirement, he said, discovering that their resources are woefully inadequate.
Ultimately, Professor Skinner said, how well-off people are in retirement is not an economic issue, but one of well-being and contentment.
"We don't know a lot about these issues," he said, "except that severely ratcheting consumption downward leads to stress and that people who don't save much die earlier."
Prof. George Lowenstein of Carnegie Mellon University, who is an economist and a psychologist, is one of the few scholars who have looked at how retirement income affects happiness.
Professor Lowenstein found that white-collar workers in low-status jobs enjoyed retirement more than either high-status white-collar workers or blue-collar workers. And he found that except for people who found themselves plunged into poverty, or into an income level so far below their working life style that their social status changed, most people are happy in retirement.
His surveys also found that people worry more about having enough to retire in the five years before they stop working than after they quit.
"The financial press and the mutual fund industry are telling people that you need to save a lot, that you should be worried, and people work themselves into a state of anxiety," Professor Lowenstein said. "But even though income drops after retirement and consumption drops even more, people find it is not nearly as bad as they expected. People adapt to adverse circumstances much faster than they expect."
He added: "The amount of misery they experience worrying about whether they have enough to retire is far out of proportion to the misery people actually experience after they retire."
Curiously, he observed, surveys show that people who have accumulated assets worry more about not having enough than do those with few assets. In that way, the shift from traditional pensions to owning assets and having to manage them is taking a psychological toll.
The least happy retirees, Professor Lowenstein said, are those forced into retirement because of layoffs or poor health. Indeed, poor health is by far the No. 1 factor cited among unhappy retirees. Baby boomers are expected on average to live a bit more than 17 years after reaching age 65, with those with more money enjoying better health and longer lives because of generally better medical care and diet and more healthful life styles.
Facts like that reinforce economists' tendency to equate greater wealth with greater happiness, Professor Lowenstein said, but a review of surveys from around the world shows such a relationship is weak.
A great divide may be coming, but he believes only those grasshoppers who have lived well and saved nothing so that their circumstances change drastically for the worse are likely to experience much psychological pain in retirement.
"Almost all the research," he said, "points to the conclusion that retired people, for the most part, are happy and satisfied with their lives to a degree that they had not anticipated prior to retirement."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)
 
Graph: "AT A GLANCE: Working Longer"
For years, the percentage of Americans 65 and over still in the work force dropped steadily. In 1985, however, both the number and percentage of older mericans still working began to rise. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; FINANCES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); HISTORY (73%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (73%); BONDS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



413 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 16; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1998 words

HEADLINE: Rainy City, Sunny Mood

BYLINE: By DENISE FAINBERG; DENISE FAINBERG is a teacher and writer who lives in Bend, Ore.

 BODY:
ONE snowstorm after another had pummeled my high-desert home east of the Cascades in this winter of La Nina (who looked suspiciously like her brother, El Nino). Green leaves, soft air, early spring and a laid-back university town were temptation enough to bolt. The city of Eugene, on Oregon's mild side, was calling.
Situated on the Willamette (pronounced wil-LAM-it) River between the Cascades and the Coast Range, Eugene is informally called the Emerald City. With a population of 130,000, it's neither a big city nor a small town, but has the amenities of both: It's the state's main cultural and population center after Portland, and boasts a relaxed, environmentally oriented style of life. Recycling is a social obligation, and riding bikes and buses is at least as respectable as driving a car. (The bus system extends from the coast to the Cascades; university students ride free). 
 Livability makes it not only a good home, but an attractive weekend getaway. A generation ago, western Oregon was a magnet to hippies and back-to-the-landers; a lot of them are still there, older and grayer, and their legacy lingers in Eugene's organic food stores, arts scene and some local events. The Saturday Market, held from April to November, dates from the 70's, with everything from clothes (remember Indian drawstring skirts?) to organic vegetables to local crafts on sale. The Oregon Country Fair is a happening: a week after the Fourth of July, thousands of young people and counterculture veterans gather in a bucolic setting for three days of whimsy, music, food and art booths, exhibitions on alternative energy and housing, and general togetherness. Mimes and jugglers roam the crowds. In a sign of the changing times, the fair is now drug- and alcohol-free.
It was too early for all this when I headed over the Cascades late in February, but I cared little. Belying its reputation, Eugene's sky when I pulled in was sunny and blue. Crocuses budded along the sidewalks, and the quadrangles of the University of Oregon could have been shipped directly from the Emerald Isle. Green all year, the place is a riot of flowers in spring and summer, thanks in part to the 46 inches of rain annually. There's a reason, after all, that the University of Oregon football team is called the Ducks.
The other big state team, in Corvallis, is the Beavers. I like that about Oregon: Rather than aggressively macho panthers, bears or eagles, it represents itself with creatures that are inoffensive or downright cuddly. Why swagger?
Town and university grew up together. Settled by the pioneer Eugene Skinner in 1846, Eugene became a hub of the Willamette Valley, the fertile magnet for Oregon Trail followers. Soon timber edged out farmers' markets as the main moneymaker; today most of the active mills are across the river in Springfield, Eugene's alter ego. The university, since joined by several other colleges, is a large employer. Tourism is a third leg of the economic base (the microchip industry is a quickly growing segment, too); with the coast an hour away to the west, and Cascade mountain-recreation areas an hour to the east, Eugene is a comfortable and convenient base.
Having taken off on the spur of the moment, I found the homey, reasonably priced bed-and-breakfasts full, and checked into a predictable Best Western. The only surprise was that shower cap, shampoo, etc. entailed a special request and a trip back to the receptionist. Then it was out to dinner at the Cafe Soriah in Eugene's lively downtown.
Intimate and elegant, yet casual in a northwestern sort of way, Soriah offers a selection of Pacific Northwest and Mediterranean dishes. I enjoyed a garlicky garbanzo-stuffed eggplant and a glass of kir, but could, for example, have had seared tambo tuna, boeuf bourguignon or lasagne. It all looked good. Regretably, I declined dessert (including chocolate chunk cake, for $3.75.) and headed for the Bijou Art Cinemas.
A college-town classic, the Bijou specializes in art films and is housed in an old converted church. Instead of previews, you get a series of slides by local photographers, featuring Oregon scenery and the theater's mascot cats. One of these sat impassively by the entrance inspecting the clientele. If you wish, you can get nutritional yeast on your popcorn and organic fruit juice. To see "Life Is Beautiful," I sat in the nave, beneath long beams soaring to the ridgepole.
There are other entertainment choices: The town's intellectual mix provides something for just about everyone. The Hult Center, which is said to have some of the best acoustics on the West Coast, is the home of the Eugene Ballet Company, the Eugene Concert Choir, the Eugene Opera, the Eugene Symphony and the Oregon Mozart Players -- not to mention the Oregon Bach Festival, which takes place June 25 to July 11 this year. Clubs and pubs offer all kinds of live music, from Celtic to blues to rock to salsa.
Next morning, I headed down 13th Avenue for breakfast. The little streets around the edge of campus are naturally full of small cafes and restaurants; I chose Cafe Siena, an informal hangout specializing in crepes as well as American breakfasts and soups. It was a busy little place, full of young people waking up to the weekend. A simple but hearty dish of scrambled eggs, home fries and toast fortified me for the day, which was clearly reverting to its usual form -- i.e., gray and wet.
But there was another culinary stop I had to make. Eugene is the home of the Euphoria Chocolate Company, a premier brand in the Northwest and -- I can say as something of a connoisseur -- worthy of its name. The flagship store is at 17th and Willamette, not far from downtown. The goodies are pricey, though; I picked up a couple of truffles (hazelnut and Grand Marnier) for $1.75 each.
Shopping can be pleasant here even for congenital nonshoppers like me. You can find malls on the outskirts, but downtown is full of small and relaxed shops. Balladeer, an eclectic music store, is one I usually visit. You can find not just Celtic or Irish music, but Breton and Galician CD's. (I came away with a recording of accordion music from Brittany.) Across the way, the Fifth Street Public Market is an urban arcade in a renovated feed mill. It was originally a populist-alternative sort of shopping center, but has become more upscale of late, housing galleries, clothing boutiques, cafes and restaurants, and now a Nike store. Making a purchase is low key; at one musical instrument outlet, I took half an hour to choose among a few Baroque recorders, tootling merrily on each while the proprietors attended to other customers.
For other types of recreation, you don't have to go far. Several sizable parks provide opportunities for hiking, biking, bird-watching and botanizing. Skinner's Butte Park and Spencer Butte, each on an old volcanic hill, also allow terrific views up to the snowcapped Three Sisters and Mount Jefferson, each over 10,000 feet. The Owen Memorial Rose Garden, along the wide Willamette River, contains 4,500 plants that bloom through the summer. The city is bike friendly (20-year-old three speeds are common fixtures on lampposts and racks), with over a hundred miles of bike paths through the city, along the river and in parks. From spring through fall, you can rent a kayak or canoe on the Millrace Canal right in town.
But it wasn't spring yet, though camellias were beginning to bloom, opening like glorious, spreading stains against dark foliage. I chose the University of Oregon Art Museum, a collection housed on campus. The brick building has a vaguely Moorish aspect; an inner courtyard with garden and fish pond provides a quiet, contemplative center. It houses Pacific Northwest exhibits, but the main focus is its Asian collection, with rooms dedicated to Japanese, Chinese, Cambodian and Tibetan objets d'art. It has acquired some mingqi, Chinese funerary figures of humans and horses from the Han and Tang dynasties; I was more taken with the whimsical netsuke, small Japanese weights carved of stone or ivory in the shapes of fanciful animals or mischievous children. Also intriguing were casts of bas-reliefs from Angkor Wat. Demigods mounted on elephants marched through thick jungle with flocks of retainers, or held conclaves with their generals on the forest floor. Next to some Russian icons, a case displays unusual ecclesiastical art -- ornate crosses for liturgical use, and naive illustrations of Gospel scenes.
When I left the museum, the rain was coming down in sheets. Another winter storm was on the way. There was just time to burrow into the Fifth Street Market for a dish of hummus at Casablanca and a piece of chocolate cake from the Metropole Bakery. Cheerful Saturday crowds milled about the cafes and galleries. They knew how to spend a rainy Eugene afternoon. I had to high-tail it over the icy Cascades, ahead of the approaching tempest.
 
The road to the Emerald City
 
Accommodations
Eugene, which is 108 miles south of Portland on I-5, has abundant rooms in all price ranges. For the dozen or so bed-and-breakfasts, it's best to make reservations. Plentiful motels mean you can get a room almost anytime without notice, except at graduation in mid-June and on parents' weekend, May 14 to 16. The 9.5 percent room tax is not included below.
The Campbell House, 252 Pearl Street, Eugene 97401, (800) 264-2519, fax (541) 343-2258, was built in 1892 and resembles an old European country hotel with gardens. Some rooms have fireplaces and whirlpool. Doubles from $80.
I stayed at the Best Western New Oregon, 1655 Franklin Boulevard, Eugene 97403; (541) 683-3669, fax (541) 484-5556. Doubles from $72.50.
The Timbers Motel, 1015 Pearl Street, Eugene 97401, telephone and fax (541) 343-3345, is oriented to families and is downtown, within walking distance of just about everything. Rates: $38 to $69.
 
Dining
Cafe Soriah, 384 West 13th Avenue, (541) 342-4410, is a cozy spot for Mediterranean and northwestern dishes. Open weekdays 11 A.M. to 2 P.M., Sunday to Thursday 5 to 10 P.M., and Friday and Saturday 5 to 11 P.M. Dinner for two: $50 with wine and dessert.
Cafe Siena, 853 East 13th Avenue, (541) 344-0300, caters to a casual crowd. Breakfast and lunch: $2 to $6 a person. Open weekdays 6:30 A.M. to 7:30 P.M., weekends 7 A.M. to 7 P.M.
There's plenty of choice at the Fifth Street Public Market, 296 East Fifth Avenue, (541) 484-0383. It is open 10 A.M. to 6 P.M., but cafes and restaurants have their own hours. Food choices range from ethnic snack bars to full-fledged restaurants. Casablanca, for example, serves Middle Eastern and Mediterranean dishes, salads and sandwiches ($3 to $7); (541) 342-3885.
 
Sightseeing
The University of Oregon Museum of Art, 1430 Johnson Lane, (541) 346-3027, specializes in Pacific Northwest and Asian art. Open Wednesday noon to 8 P.M., Thursday to Sunday noon to 5 P.M. A $3 donation is suggested.
Families with young children might want to check out the Willamette Science and Technology Center, 2300 Leo Harris Parkway, (541) 682-7888. It offers changing hands-on exhibits on subjects ranging from dinosaurs to atomic particles. Admission $4, children $3. Open Wednesday to Friday noon to 5 P.M., Saturday and Sunday 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Adjacent is the Lane E.S.D. Planetarium (admission extra); (541) 682-7827.
From April to November, the colorful Saturday Market at 8th and Oak Streets offers a couple of hundred booths featuring local crafts, international foods and entertainment; (541) 686-8885. Open 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.
The Bijou Art Cinemas, 492 East 13th Avenue; (541) 686-2458. Tickets: $6 Thursday to Saturday, $4.50 Sunday to Wednesday.
The Hult Center, 7th and Willamette; (541) 682-5000.
Canoes and kayaks can be rented from March to October from EMU Waterworks Canoe Company, (541) 346-4386.
 The Oregon Country Fair is July 9 to 11; The Web site is www.efn
.org/ocf/.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On campus at the University of Oregon. Qing Dynasty garments from 19th-century China at the university's Museum of Art. (Greg Vaughn/Viewfinders); The International Cafe at the Fifth Street Market. (John Giustina for The New York Times)(pg. 16); The bar at Cafe Soriah, a restaurant serving Pacific Northwest and Mediterranean dishes. (John Giustina for The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (95%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); OREGON, USA (95%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WEATHER (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (86%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (71%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (70%); ORGANIC FOODS (70%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (65%); MAMMALS (55%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



414 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Upstate New York May Get Air Fare Relief

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
FLYING between New York City and upstate New York, which can cost more than flying across the Atlantic, may get cheaper this fall, because investors in a proposed discount airline are working with a variety of elected officials to bring fares down. But there are formidable obstacles to the plan, and leisure travelers may not benefit nearly so much as last-minute travelers paying full coach fare.
High air fares are a hot business and political issue upstate, where Rochester has the fourth-highest air fares in the country, while Buffalo and Syracuse are among the 20 most expensive, according to Department of Transportation data. 
 In a recent search of air fares for tickets bought on short notice, it typically cost $384 to fly from Albany to La Guardia Airport and back the same day, or $1.39 a mile, while a same-day round trip from Albany to Miami on most lines cost $468, 19 cents a mile.
State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said that a subcommittee of the Economic Development Committee will be named in a few weeks to look into the situation and that a staff member was already collecting economic data.
Mr. Silver's inquiry follows complaints by corporations upstate that they are being gouged by the airlines. Eastman Kodak recently relocated some sales people from Rochester to Atlanta to take advantage of lower fares and more frequent service.
Upstate business and political leaders say the city whose air fares has attracted their interest is Providence, R.I., where the arrival in 1996 of the biggest and strongest low-fare carrier, Southwest, sent all carriers' average fares plummeting.
Southwest has shown little interest in upstate New York. But a group of investors, including George Soros, filed last month to start a discount airline that would use Kennedy International Airport as a hub. David Neeleman, the entrepreneur who has raised $130 million to start the airline, said he had promised that Buffalo, Rochester or Syracuse would be the first city his airline served.
Mr. Neeleman's airline does not have a name yet. But after he picks one, the airline faces the daunting task of persuading travelers that its fares are low enough to make it worth traveling via Kennedy instead of La Guardia, which is closer to Manhattan. Mr. Neeleman says Kennedy has fewer flight delays, which would compensate for the longer and costlier taxi ride.
The proposed new airline has powerful allies. In Washington, Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Charles E. Schumer, both Democrats, and four upstate Representatives have asked Transportation Secretary Rodney E. Slater to do whatever is necessary to insure low-cost air service for upstate cities.
Their Jan. 20 letter came three and a half months after a small low-cost carrier, Eastwind Airlines, gave up on Rochester after about two months of service to Boston, Trenton, Dulles Airport near Washington and Greensboro, N.C.
United and US Airways say their prices are fair and competitive. Richard Weintraub, a spokesman for US Airways, said upstate fares were high because most flights are under 300 miles and costs per mile fall as the length of flights increases. He said that the costs of operating 250-mile flights -- roughly the distance from Rochester to Philadelphia or Syracuse to Boston -- were about 25 percent more per mile than 300-mile flights and about twice as costly per mile as 1,000-mile flights.
US Airways and United call the Transportation Department air-fare data misleading because city pairs with mostly business travelers have higher average fares than those with mostly leisure travelers. "Average fares appear high for Buffalo, Rochester and Syracuse because most passengers are on business fares," Mr. Weintraub said.
Representative Louise Slaughter, a Rochester Democrat who has been complaining that high fares are strangling business upstate, said: "Fares in western New York are subsidizing fares in other parts of the country that have low-cost competition. Fares really aren't going to come down until we get competition."
Tony Molinaro, a spokesman for United, denied that his airline used high fares out of upstate New York to subsidize fares elsewhere. But his remarks also lent support to the Congresswoman's point.
"We set prices according to a number of factors: supply and demand, population base in two cities, overhead costs such as landing fees, aircraft expenses, and competition is another big piece," he said. "To know if fares are high or not I would have to know what the competition is.
"But to compare upstate New York to Chicago to, say, Salt Lake City to Denver or Albuquerque to Denver would not be reasonable because of competition in those markets from Southwest, America West and other carriers. But it is not like we are looking at the whole country and saying these are low prices here in Utah so let's jack them up here in New York." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIR FARES (92%); AIRLINES (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); SALES FORCE (65%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); GEORGE SOROS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



415 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 27; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 3-21-99 -- Questions for Abdul Hakeem Mujahid;
The Taliban's Man in the U.S.

BYLINE: By Amy Finnerty 

 BODY:
Q:
Has the adjustment to life in New York been difficult? 
 It was not difficult. Not for me, not for my family. I am living here in the Afghan community, so I didn't find myself among strangers. We are following the same culture, the same beliefs.
How are your children doing in school?
Excellent numbers! One of my boys is getting 99, 102. In my country you cannot get more than 100. He explained the teacher is giving about 100 marks and an extracredit question. So he is doing that one also. My daughter is in Muslim Center elementary school, but all of my boys are in public school.
It is good, but the way of education here, it is a little bit friendly. The teacher in all Islamic countries is more powerful. Here, the weakest is the teacher.
Do you allow them to watch television at all?
Sometimes, by chance, we see it, but the children are very busy with schoolwork, with family, with each other. They went several times on class trips, to museums and other educational trips authorized by the school. It's very important, very educational for them.
And what is life like in your neighborhood?
I am living here in the United States, in Queens, and I do not know the neighbors on the right or the left side. You know about the way of individualism here. One neighbor doesn't know the other one. In Afghanistan, neighbors will come to you, ask about you, who are you, what can they do for you.
Have you learned their backgrounds?
I think mainly they are Jewish people. With the small hats on their heads. Sometimes they are asking my son, because he wears a small hat, Are you Jewish? So much similarity we have with the Jewish people.
Is America a good place to rear children?
I think you have social problems. In Eastern societies, and Afghan society in particular, there are very strict social regulations.
Strict? Do you think they are too strict?
Yes, the masses, the public is too strict. For example, widows were forced to marry with the relatives of her dead husband. But this is Afghan culture, not Islamic ideology. I think when there is a competition between Afghan tradition and Islamic teaching, the tradition is the winner. And that is the Taliban plan, gradually to make public opinion for more and more freedom of the women.
Many Americans say your Government is too strict, not the people. What is your response to critics, like the Feminist Majority Foundation?
The Government in Afghanistan is running according to the will of 95 percent of the women there. If the campaign of the Feminist Majority were explained to Afghan women, Afghan women would find it ridiculous and insulting. They are neglecting the differences between the two societies. They are making our culture ridiculous, showing women wearing the burqa -- which most women in Afghanistan don't wear, but is a centuries-long tradition in Afghanistan. It is not Americans' right to impose their values upon us.
What is your impression of relationships between men and women in America?
From one side, they are very free. The freedom is a good thing. From another side, a woman is forced to use her own economic resources. For example, in our society, it is impossible for a woman to be used as a commodity -- or for publicity. But here, to sell one cigarette, she is being shown to the public from all different sides. For one cigarette.
Do you ever indulge in the local luxuries? What do you make of American culture?
Actually, I go only directly to the United Nations, here to my office, to my home. American culture has some positive and some negative aspects. But we don't want to criticize your society. We are a well-structured family, so we don't have any difficulty.
Have you read any books in English?
Only Shakespeare. And Henrik Ibsen. "A Doll's House." It has some positive points and some negative points.
And the end of the play, I do not like that. She wanted to start her first experience independently, by herself. This is the start of the separation between Western culture and Eastern culture.
So how would you have liked it to end?
Cooperating with each other. Amy Finnerty
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Christian Witkin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) FEMINIST MAJORITY FOUNDATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) FEMINIST MAJORITY FOUNDATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN; UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TALIBAN (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (84%); WOMEN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); 

PERSON: MUJAHID, ABDUL HAKEEM; FINNERTY, AMY

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



416 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Long Island;
As Caldor Leaves, Others Rush to Take Up Leases

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
A SIGN over the customer-service desk inside the 91,800-square-foot Caldor store on Hempstead Turnpike in Levittown read, "Committed to making you a satisfied repeat customer."
On the exit door, another said, "Come again soon. Thank you for shopping at Caldor." 
 But customers like Mae and John Fornasiero of East Meadow, who were wheeling a loaded shopping cart back to their car, knew better. There would be no coming back because the Levittown Caldor closed its doors last Sunday following a "going out of business" sale.
"I'm going to miss Caldor because it was convenient for us and had good value," Mrs. Fornasiero said. "Now we'll probably go to Wal-Mart, but that's 15 minutes farther away."
Long Island's 19 Caldor locations, from Garden City east to Bridgehampton, have been shutting down one by one following a decision by the Caldor Organization of Norwalk, Conn., in January to close all 145 of its stores in nine East Coast states. The Long Island stores will be closed by the end of May.
The discount retail chain, which sold everything from apparel to hardware, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1995 after competition from juggernauts like Kmart, Wal-Mart and Target, which sold essentially the same goods but had national clout and better management, began eroding its sales.
"Instead of competing with the giants, in my opinion, they should have found another niche," said Wilbur F. Breslin, the president of Breslin Realty in Garden City, which owns the 250,000-square-foot Carmans Plaza shopping center in Massapequa, which contains a 110,000-square-foot Caldor.
"We are sorry to see them go," Mr. Breslin added, "but the Long Island market is very strong, so if one store goes another usually comes in to replace it, which is what we fully expect will be the experience with Caldor."
In fact, 65 of Caldor's 145 locations, including 8 on Long Island, have already been spoken for "and we are making other deals as we speak," said Jeremy M. Sclar, a partner of W/S Discount Acquisition of Chestnut Hill, Mass., an affiliate of W/S Development Associates, a shopping center developer. The affiliate is assisting Caldor with the disposition of its real estate assets.
The eight Long Island deals, which have been approved by the Manhattan bankruptcy court overseeing the Caldor liquidation, include six locations for which Kohl's Department Stores of Menomonee Falls, Wis., was the successful bidder.
Kohl's is paying $142 million for a total of 33 locations -- 12 in New York State, 11 in New Jersey, 9 in Connecticut, and one in Baltimore. The six Long Island locations are in Levittown, Ronkonkoma, Melville, Deer Park, East Setauket and Shirley.
In addition, Wal-Mart will be taking over Caldor's lease in Riverhead. And Kmart will take over its Woodmere location.
WHEN retailers go out of business, the real estate they occupy is often a valuable asset even if they don't own it. A lease can give another company anxious to find large space quickly the opportunity to do so. And leases, which for large retailers typically extend over long periods, often were negotiated at rents below the current market rate.
If market rents currently are $18 a square foot annually, and a lease with 20 years to go calls for a $10-a-square-foot rent, the $8 differential could allow a company to pay as much as $80 a square foot for the right to take over that lease, estimated Stanley H. Schuckman, president of Schuckman Realty, a commercial brokerage in Woodbury.
Kohl's intends to spend an additional $165 million to refurbish its 33 stores. The renovated stores will open in the spring of 2000.
Gary Vasques, a spokesman for Kohl's, described the retailer as a "family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store selling moderately-priced national brand" merchandise.
Caldor's demise gave the 36-year-old Kohl's, which currently operates 213 stores in the Midwest and in the Mid-Atlantic region, the opportunity to enter the New York metropolitan area "with a critical mass of stores," he said.
Mr. Schuckman, the Woodbury broker, said newcomers need "critical mass" to enter a new market. When Caldor arrived on Long Island in 1982, he noted, it acquired a total of 14 locations, including some occupied by the Woolco Department Store chain owned by F.W. Woolworth Company. As Caldor's broker, Mr. Schuckman said, he helped arrange most of those deals.
Landlords and brokers, including Mr. Schuckman, say Caldor always did well on Long Island, with most of its losses occurring in upstate New York locations and regions like Philadelphia. High rents it paid for its New York City stores also hurt, they say.
The 95,000-square-foot Caldor in Oceanside was an example of a highly successful store, grossing $46 million annually, said Daniel H. Serota of Nathan Serota & Sons of Valley Stream, which owns the 212,000-square-foot shopping center where the Caldor store is situated. So far, no one has purchased the Oceanside lease, but Mr. Serota said he was not worried. "With the dollar volume they did there, someone will buy it," he said.
Landlords say that because of the strong economy, Caldor's closing could not have come at a better time.
"If I had a Caldor in a great location, I could make a phone call and have someone interested today," said Arthur D. Sanders, president of Spiegel Associates in Jericho, which owns more than a million square feet of retail and industrial properties on Long Island.
And most retail experts agree that the demise of the troubled retailer will have a positive effect locally. "It's bad for Caldor, but it's good for Long Island because the stores are being snapped up by good tenants," said Jeffrey Pliskin, the president of Pliskin Realty and Development in Carle Place.
THE Caldor situation is providing opportunities for major companies to enter or expand in an area that is one of the wealthiest in the country, said Steven B. Greenberg, president of the Greenberg Group, real estate consultants in Hewlett.
"There are limited locations on Long Island where you can find 30,000 square feet, and finding 110,000 square feet is a real challenge," he said.
The recent acquisition by Royal Ahold, the international food retailer, of 132 Pathmark Stores for $1.75 billion is another example of how a major company uses acquisition to broaden its market share in desirable locations, he said. Of the 132 Pathmark stores, 25 are on Long Island.
Keith Morris, director of community affairs for Wal-Mart stores, said the retailer's takeover of some of the Caldor locations "is a win-win situation for everyone."
"For us, it's a lot more cost efficient to go this route, and for a municipality it's a major economic boom to have a retailer like Wal-Mart move in," Mr. Morris said.
Wal-Mart, which is based in Bentonville, Ark., successfully bid $72.9 million for 12 Caldor locations. In addition to Riverhead, they include one in Suffern, N.Y., six in Connecticut and four in Massachusetts.
Wal-Mart currently has stores in Centereach, Uniondale and Middle Island. The 112,000-square-foot Riverhead store, which Wal-Mart intends to totally refurbish, "gives us another presence to the eastern side of Long Island and was a great opportunity for us," Mr. Morris said.
Landlords are also hailing the changeovers. "When you have a large tenant going through serious problems, you worry," said Paul A. Bregman, a partner of the Bregman Organization in Plainview, which owns the 83,000-square-foot Ronkonkoma Caldor being taken over by Kohl's.
"What gives us a lot of confidence is to have a retailer like Kohl's, which has a good upscale operation and good financials, making such a commitment to the region," Mr. Bregman said.
The acquisition by Kohl's of the lease on the 113,275-square-foot Deer Park Caldor "is very beneficial to us as a shopping center," said Richard Birdoff, a partner of RD Management, which owns 250 shopping centers nationwide, eight of them on Long Island. "Caldor performed very well at our site," he noted. However, the fact that it had filed for bankruptcy protection "had a negative effect," he said.
"Kohl's is just a stronger company," summed up Stephen Lerner, a partner of Lerner Heidenberg Associates of Closter, N.J., which owns the 82,000-square-foot Caldor store in Shirley also being taken by Kohl's.
"We are not happy to see anyone go out of business," said Sam Jemal, a partner of Rockway Realty Associates in Manhattan, which owns the 450,000-square-foot Five Towns Shopping Center in Woodmere where a 110,000-square-foot Caldor is being taken over by Kmart.
"However, Kmart is one of the three top retailers in the country," Mr. Jemal said. "They have better brand recognition as a national chain, and the replacement is definitely a step up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Caldor store in Levittown, which closed last Sunday. A Kohl's department store will take over location. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KOHL'S CORP; KMART; WAL-MART; CALDOR CORP WAL-MART STORES INC (85%); KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES INC (61%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOHL'S CORP; KMART; WAL-MART; CALDOR CORP NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BANKRUPTCIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); RENTING AND LEASING BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (63%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA STANLEY H SCHUCKMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



417 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
Chamber Music, Traditional Arts, Virtual Sante Fe

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE B. JOHNSON; Lawrence B. Johnson is the music critic of The Detroit News.

 BODY:
WHAT began as a New York appearance by performers of the Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival has evolved into a virtual weekend in the historic capital of New Mexico: a three-day musical and cultural holiday, beginning on Thursday, mostly within the confines of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. And as befits Santa Fe, where controversy flows back through history to the city's founding in 1610, the music is likely to be accompanied by a note of political discord.
Chris Wilson, the author of the provocative book "The Myth of Santa Fe," will lecture on the emergence of the cultural profile that provides the city with its chief industry: tourism. David Warren, a Pueblo Indian and retired deputy director of the National Museum of the American Indian at the Smithsonian Institution, will discuss the Met's current exhibition of Indian art, "Native Paths." 
 Another hot topic: chili. Betty Fussell, a food historian, will retrace the converging influences of the Spanish and American Indian diets that shaped Santa Fe cuisine. Robert Morean, the owner of the Santacafe, and his chef, David Sellars, will bring a taste of the real thing, preparing an appetizer and main course for diners at the Mark Hotel, near the Met, on Friday and Saturday.
The idea of serving up Santa Fe whole came to Marc Neikrug, the artistic director of the chamber music festival, as he pondered the fact that neither his group nor its musical fare bore the unique stamp of their Southwestern locale.
"How do I make it Santa Fe instead of seven musicians from New York coming back to play at the Met Museum?" he said he had asked himself, referring to the likes of the pianist Max Levinson, the violist Cynthia Phelps and the cellist Peter Wiley. "Well, maybe we aren't all from New York, but you see the problem. Actually, it's the same problem everywhere. Travel around Europe, and see who's performing, and you'll find that 80 percent of the people who play concerts in the world live within five blocks of each other on the Upper West Side."
Since the conventional chamber music repertory offered no particular connection to Santa Fe, Mr. Neikrug said, he chose works for the Met concerts on Friday and Saturday that at least engaged ethnic issues: Brahms's G minor Piano Quartet, with its touches of Gypsy music; Hebrew songs by Ravel; the Third String Quartet of Viktor Ullmann, an Austrian Jew who perished in the Nazi concentration camp at Terezin, and a collection of Arabic songs composed by the young Egyptian baritone Kamel Boutros, who will sing them.
In Mr. Wilson's view, the absence of Southwestern and American music from Mr. Neikrug's programming is not an issue.
"Out of the whole range of activities in a given cultural setting," he said, "only a small proportion become public symbols of ethnic identity: usually cuisine, often architecture, sometimes music. New Orleans, for example, brings to mind the French Quarter, certainly the cuisine, jazz and zydeco music.
"But music in Santa Fe, a distant outpost in the period of the Spanish Baroque, largely consisted of a guitar and a fiddle playing dance music. Its history is one of struggle and defending against raids by Comanches and Apaches. It was a culture of poverty. The music was folkloric."
Paradoxically, Mr. Wilson said, European-style classical music has become an expression of modern Santa Fe. The summerlong chamber music festival has presented 26 seasons; the highly successful Santa Fe Opera has filled summer nights since its founding in 1955.
"For all its adobe appearance, Santa Fe is a very modern city whose citizens watch television and use the Internet," Mr. Wilson added. "A component of its population are followers of classical music."
Still, Mr. Neikrug said, he wanted to bring a vivid sense of Santa Fe to the Met. "I was left with the same question: How can I recreate as much of the Santa Fe experience as humanly possible without the audience being there physically."
For the answer, Mr. Neikrug, who was born in New York but lives in Santa Fe, turned to two fellow townsfolk, Mr. Wilson, an Iowa native educated at Yale University and the University of New Mexico, and Mr. Warren, who was born in the Santa Clara Pueblo, near Santa Fe, and earned a doctorate in Latin American colonial history at the University of New Mexico.
Mr. Warren said that his first impulse was to focus on Pueblo arts but that the richness of the Met's "Native Paths" exhibition prompted him to present a wider perspective on American Indian crafts.
"I would like to cause people to look at Native American art in slightly different ways than they might," he said. "For one thing, it's important to remember that the objects that the public in general regards as art were actually created for specific purposes, whether practical or ceremonial. The concept of esthetics isn't really a part of Native American culture."
And on that point rests a contemporary hot button. From the viewpoint of American Indians, Mr. Warren said, the wealth of material accumulated in collections like "Native Paths" represents an ancient patrimony. And increasing public consciousness of that view, reflected in the return of many items to Indians' hands, has stimulated what Mr. Warren called a cultural renaissance in American Indian society.
"This is just as true of the Pueblos as it is of other tribes throughout America," he said. "While it's quite important in principle that cultural and intellectual material be restored, it also has a direct bearing on contemporary cultural and artistic development. This is unprecedented, and the effects are yet to be fully appreciated.
"Thanks to the return of classical pieces, a revitalization of traditional arts is occurring that may not be immediately evident to the public. But there is a new force at hand, which is the Native American sense of responsibility to its own traditions. It's almost a paradox. The more rapid and complex and technological the world we enter, the deeper grows the sense of tradition."
Still, Mr. Warren added, American Indians in general -- more than 500 tribes across the country -- are not all clamoring to recover the objects of their patrimony now held in museums or private collections.
"Many tribes have said, for whatever reason, that they do not need to have them returned," he explained. "They are only concerned that the objects are properly cared for and to help the public gain a better understanding of the things they see. It's really a new relationship between the tribes and the museums, a mutual sense of responsibility."
MR. WILSON, in his book, grapples with a different sort of borrowing from American Indian heritage: the romantic image.
"Santa Fe is an El Dorado, an exotic outpost glowing in the sunset, a tourist magnet that has enjoyed a boom since the 1980's," he said. "And look what the mystique of Santa Fe is based on: Pueblo and Spanish culture. Yet those are the people of Santa Fe in need. It's not legitimate to use those icons as advertising images to attract people, then not pay attention to the people being displaced by gentrification and a real-estate boom."
Tracking the community's course from its founding by Pedro de Pe ralta as a Spanish territorial capital, Mr. Wilson's critical history underscores Santa Fe's character as a melting pot and analyzes the forces that have contributed to what he portrays as a conflicted and ultimately mythic self-image.
New Mexico was rejected in its bid for statehood several times before it was admitted to the Union in 1912, along with Arizona. At one point, Congress contemplated lumping the two territories together as a single new state, Montezuma.
Predominantly white America took a dim view of the predominantly Mexican and Indian mix of New Mexico, Mr. Wilson writes. Thus occurred a historic split in personality, as the state, holding out Santa Fe as its crown jewel, offered the look and feel of Anystate, U.S.A., to Congress while selling its Western exoticism to tourists.
In 1920, Santa Fe consolidated its bid for tourism by adopting what Mr. Wilson calls a myth that prefigured the Disneyland ideal: from that time forward, the entire community (or at least 90 percent of it) would present the same adobe facade to the world.
Or rather, stucco mixed with adobe pigment. But it would be one face, one lure, one myth.
"I do see that as symbolic of the larger problem, but I also have to say I feel a certain degree of optimism about the city," Mr. Wilson said. "I live there. I see its remarkable cultural vitality: the museums, restaurants, bookstores, opera, chamber music, the walking zones, the artist colony. And I think we're starting to see some understanding among our political leaders that they need to take an active role in counteracting displacement.
"Above all, I'm not trashing tourists and amenity migrants," he said, defining the latter as "people who move to nice places like Aspen, Colo., Santa Barbara, Calif., and Santa Fe."
"All of us take our turn at being a tourist," he said. "I'd just like to see people be more aware of the economic impact we can have, and not accept the stereotype."
Mr. Neikrug, the chamber music festival director, who has trimmed his role to that of cultural partner for this Santa Fe immersion, said: "I'd like to take something like this everywhere we tour. Everyone is looking for a broader experience. That's my goal with programming for the Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival, to offer dimensions beyond great music played well."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The pianist Max Levinson is among the performers at the Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival (Chris Neil), of which Marc Neikrug, left, is the artistic director. (Richard Gonzales)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); SONG WRITING (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); WRITERS (70%); HOLOCAUST (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, LAWRENCE B MARC NEIKRUG (82%); CHRIS WILSON (82%); DAVID WARREN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



418 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / New Jersey;
First Accord Seen Near on Cleanup Reimbursement

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
TODD L. NORMANE calls the more flexible way the state works with developers to recycle polluted industrial sites "more like a handshake than a hammer." For the process includes a new financial incentive -- reimbursement for up to 75 percent of the cleanup cost.
Mr. Normane -- a lawyer at Maraziti, Falcon & Healy, a Short Hills firm that specializes in environmental and redevelopment law -- is representing Arc Properties of Clifton, whose project is the first approved for the reimbursement under the 1998 Brownfields and Contaminated Sites Redemption Act. A draft of the redevelopment agreement setting the terms of the reimbursement was completed earlier this month and the state and the developer are expected to sign an accord by the end of month, Mr. Normane said. 
 Arc is cleaning up the contaminants from a 30-acre site at the intersection of Routes 1 and 287 in the south-central portion of Edison Township in Middlesex County. At the same time, it is razing four interconnecting industrial buildings formerly occupied by a steel tubing manufacturer, which filed for bankruptcy in 1995, to make way for a 285,000-square-foot shopping center called Edison Crossroads.
The cost of the cleanup, plans for which have been approved by the state's Department of Environmental Protection, is estimated at $1.5 million; 75 percent of it, or $1.2 million, is expected to be returned to Arc under the reimbursement program, said Mr. Normane.
Eight tenants have signed on for all of the space at the project, which will cost a total of $25 million to develop. Among them are Home Depot, taking 138,000 square feet; Edwards Super Food Store, with 57,000 square feet; Worldwide Floor Coverings, 40,000 square feet, and Office Depot, 27,500 square feet. Completion is scheduled for early next year.
"The risk is always great in such redevelopment projects," Mr. Normane said, "but the reimbursement incentive helps to level the playing field and add a little more reward to the risk."
The 1998 brownfields act is the latest in a series of steps New Jersey has taken in recent years to facilitate the reuse of the 10,000 contaminated sites in the state, down from about 20,000 in 1985, that are the legacy of its industrial past. Of the remaining sites, about 1,130 are so-called brownfields --which the state defines as former commercial or industrial sites that are underutilized or abandoned and contain known or perceived contaminants -- that are being cleaned and redeveloped.
Besides the reimbursement, the act provides purchasers of tainted sites protection from private lawsuits related to past contamination problems and carries an assurance that the state will not sue once the site is cleaned according to its standards.
To qualify for the reimbursement, developers must, among other things, demonstrate that they were not the polluter, that their projects are economically feasible and that they will create jobs and fit with local, regional and state planning objectives.
The most important condition is that the projects must generate new tax revenue that exceeds the cost of the cleanup. The state uses projections of eight different state taxes, from sales to use and corporate taxes, to calculate a project's revenue.
DEVELOPERS must clean the site in accordance with a plan approved by the state's Department of Environmental Protection and enter a redevelopment agreement with the state approved by the Commerce & Economic Growth Commission and the state treasurer.
The agreement specifies the amount of the reimbursement and the frequency and duration of the payments. The latter is directly tied to the occupancy rate of the project.
"The aim is to entice developers to take a second look at abandoned and tainted properties that are not now producing revenue and get them back on the tax rolls," said Kelly A. Woods, deputy director of the Office of Urban Programs, within New Jersey's Commerce & Economic Growth Commission, which administers the reimbursement program.
"It's also a revenue neutral program for the state," said Ms. Woods, explaining that -- rather than go into the state treasury -- the taxes collected from qualified projects go into a special reimbursement fund and are filtered back to the project's developer. Thus, if revenue does not come into the state from the redevelopment project "the developer does not receive a penny," she noted.
Beyond the Edison project, applications for four others are in various stages of the review process and there have been pre-application meetings with developers for 13 more.
The success of the first project will be key, she added, because it will send the message that "the program does work."
Arc became involved with the Edison project in 1995 when it secured approvals from the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan to buy the 30-acre tract. It closed the transaction last June. "The whole attraction to the site was its location," said Marc A. Perel, executive vice president at Arc.
He said that, along with being visible from and accessible to two major highways, the property was close to two regional malls and in a neighborhood of Edison that has been changing from industrial to retail use.
Contaminants on the site and in the groundwater include petroleum hydrocarbons and chemical solvent left behind from industrial users. "Though there may be easier sites to develop," Mr. Perel said, "ones of this size with this kind of location are difficult to find."
The former owner -- Berger Industries, the steel-tubing manufacturer -- had operated on the site for 14 years before it shut down in 1993, two years before filing for bankruptcy. Over the years other smaller companies also operated on part of the site, including a fragrance manufacturer. In recent years, sections of the 360,000-square-foot industrial complex Berger Industries once occupied were subleased to a collection of retail and commercial tenants.
BUT after Arc invested two years and over $1 million in the project Mr. Perel said it became apparent the magnitude of the cleanup was greater than expected. The company sought the reimbursement incentive last March soon after the state made it available.
"It became important to mitigate the cost overruns we didn't anticipate, making the project much more economically feasible," Mr. Perel said.
Under the cleanup plan, high levels of pollutants on portions of the property will be removed and carted off the site. Areas with low levels will be capped with an impervious surface.
What helped in pursuing the reimbursement incentive, said Mr. Normane, the lawyer, is that the Edison Crossroads redevelopment had all its approvals in place and tenants lined up, showing the viability of the project. In turn, he said, it will generate $4.5 million a year in sales taxes alone, which is $3 million more than needed to cover the cost to clean the property. He added that the property, when redeveloped, would create 800 jobs and rise in value to $31 million from $8 million.
Terri Smith, a legislative analyst at the Site Remediation Program, part of the state's Department of Environmental Protection, said Edison Crossroads "was a perfect match" for the reimbursement program and a good project for the state to support "because everyone involved stands to benefit."
Mr. Perel said the area's demographics also supported the project, which with its open-air design and collection of so-called big-box retailers, will be a "power center." He said some 280,000 people with an average household income of $69,000live within a five-mile radius of the site.
Richard Brunelli, who heads a retail brokerage in Old Bridge bearing his name, said the vacancy rate in strip centers and free-standing stores along the entire 30-mile Route 1 retail corridor -- where Edison Crossroads is situated -- had dropped to 6.3 percent by the end of 1998 from 7.7 percent a year earlier.
"There is demand in the Woodbridge-Edison trade area for another power center and for another half million square feet of space beyond that," he said.
(The International Council of Shopping Centers in Manhattan defines a power center as an open-air retail strip with 250,000 to 750,000 square feet of space and three or more big-box retailers.)
Mr. Brunelli added that with today's strong economy and real estate market developers across the state are tearing down old industrial complexes and replacing them with new uses.
"But often," he added, "the difference is making such projects economically feasible or not is the cost of the cleanup."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings: Elevations of future retailers at Edison Crossroads: Edwards Super Food Store and Worldwide Floor Coverings, above, and Home Depot, below. (Dietz and Associates, P.C.)
 
Map of New Jersey, highlighting Edison Crossroads.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5231 PAINT, GLASS, & WALLPAPER STORES (90%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: ARC PROPERTIES; BERGER INDUSTRIES; HOME DEPOT INC; EDWARDS SUPER FOOD STORES; WORLDWIDE FLOOR COVERINGS MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARC PROPERTIES; BERGER INDUSTRIES; HOME DEPOT INC; EDWARDS SUPER FOOD STORES; WORLDWIDE FLOOR COVERINGS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; EDISON (NJ); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; FINANCES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MFG (67%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE TODD L NORMANE (88%); EDISON CROSSROADS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



419 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Connecticut;
Mall Developers Battle for Regional Dominance

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
DEVELOPERS who have long contended with local detractors trying to block construction of malls in their communities now find themselves involved in another battle.
With a scarcity of land in the limited regions in the state where populations can support a mall, they are now campaigning against one another. 
 To gain or maintain dominance of a region, owners of new malls and expanding older malls are employing whatever means are at hand to take control of an area at the expense of smaller, weaker, or older malls. In economically depressed cities regional malls are welcomed as cash cows that will draw customers from miles around and jump-start the local economy.
In 1998, a year after the new 1.1-million-square-foot Brass Mill Center opened in Waterbury on the site of the historic Scovill Brass Works, the old 575,000-square-foot, 50-store Naugatuck Valley Mall closed down. Its anchors, Sears and Filene's, along with a dozen additional stores, moved a mile and half south into the new mall, and the remaining tenants left shortly afterward.
In New Haven, a plan for the 1.3-million-square-foot New Haven Galleria at Long Wharf was submitted to the city late last year, generating a lawsuit against it by the 794,000-square-foot Connecticut Post Mall, eight miles to the west in Milford, where fears of an inevitable drain on its customer base are intense.
Since 1986 the Wilmorite Corporation of Rochester had been trying to obtain approval for a 1.2 million-square-foot regional mall in Plainville, in the face of strong opposition by the Westfarms Mall in Farmington, five miles away. Eighteen months ago Wilmorite reduced its project to an unenclosed strip mall of 500,000 square feet, while Westfarms expanded by 300,000 square feet to 1.3 million square feet.
Wilmorite's subsidiary, Red Oak Associates L.P., has begun site work on what Al Friedrich, senior vice president of Wilmorite, calls "a $60 million Power Center -- a strip center with two or three large players." Kmart, Lowe's Home Improvement, and a Sony movie theater with up to 20 screens are committed and expected to move in late this year. The rest of the space will be marketed as 10,000 to 20,000 square foot stores, and surface parking for 3,200 cars will be available on the 77-acre site.
According to Mr. Friedrich, the Taubman Corporation of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., owner of the Westfarms Mall in Farmington, "publicly rejected our project at every level of development."
"Their adversarial activity delayed our project and enabled them to solicit and win over the same anchor department stores with whom we were negotiating," he said. "Once they expanded it changed all the market criteria."
Kevin Keenan, general manager at Westfarms, said that the company had indeed opposed the Plainville project, but he said he did not have the details. The Michigan headquarters did not respond to calls for information.
COMMENTING on the demise of the Naugatuck Valley Mall, Waterbury's Mayor, Philip A. Giordano, said: "It's been a tough year or so, but there's a light at the end of the tunnel. Louis Ceruzzi, a developer, is in the process of buying it. He plans to demolish it and built a new retail center in its place."
John L. Bucksbaum, executive vice president of General Growth Properties in Chicago, owner of the two Waterbury malls, said that he had had inconclusive discussions with Mr. Ceruzzi, who did not respond to telephone calls. General Growth owns 119 malls in 39 states, totaling 100 million square feet. It bought the Naugatuck Valley Mall from Naugatuck Valley Associates last year.
"We felt we could figure out other retail opportunities for developers who would be interested," said Mr. Bucksbaum. He suggested that "other retail formats that you wouldn't typically find in a mall -- big box stores, for example," could be successful where the old mall failed.
The lawsuit brought by Connecticut Post Mall L.P. of Milford was filed Jan. 20 in Superior Court in New Haven against the city, the South Central Connecticut Regional Planning Commission and its parent, the South Central Connecticut Council of Governments. The three entities reviewed the New Haven Galleria at Long Wharf project and approved it.
"It's a ridiculous lawsuit," said John DeStefano, Jr., Mayor of New Haven. "Milford doesn't want any competition, and they are doing what New Haven did to them in the 80's, when we intervened to stop the Post Mall from expanding in order to protect Macy's and our downtown retail development." Macy's closed in 1993 and the Milford mall doubled its size in 1991 to 793,900 square feet, and is currently expanding again by another 235,800 square feet.
Concerned about New Haven's needs, the Mayor said that "the major issue here is school improvement and construction, reduction of crime, and job creation," noting that in some parts of the city there was 12 percent unemployment. New Haven, he said, is the only Connecticut community to have been designated a Federal Empowerment Zone, through which it will receive $100 million over 10 years for whatever purposes it decides are important. Empowerment zones are created in areas of high unemployment.
"The mall," the Mayor said, "will bring 2,500 permanent jobs, 3,000 construction jobs, and $6 million in property taxes, half of that to be used to retire debt over 20 years." A sum of $60 million acquired through a state bond issue would be given to the city, which would repay the money out of property and sales tax revenues generated by the mall. The city expects to issue an additional $25 million in bonds, also to be repaid by mall revenues and taxes; the remaining $407 million of the total estimated cost of $492 million is to be raised privately.
THE lawsuit against New Haven and others charges that in approving the mall the defendants violated a 30-year-old regional plan that originally included a mall at Long Wharf, but was corrected to exclude it. A second complaint, according to Ronald J. Cohen of Tyler Cooper & Alcorn, a New Haven law firm representing the Milford mall, charges that repayment of state and city bonds is not sufficiently guaranteed. This constitutes "a boondoggle for a competing shopping center, completely skewing economic rationality," he said.
Joseph L. Rini of Hogan & Rini, P.C., the law firm representing the defendants, filed motions on Feb. 3 challenging the complaints, saying that "the Connecticut Post Mall does not have standing because it is not affected differently than any other retailer."
The New Haven mall will be built by New England Development Corporation of Newton, Mass., in partnership with the Fusco Family Partnership, an arm of the Fusco Development Corporation of New Haven. Arrowstreet Inc. of Somerville, Mass., architect for the Brass Mill Center in Waterbury, is designing the Galleria at Long Wharf.
Site plans and an application for a planned development district, an overlay zone that will supersede the existing industrial zone, were submitted earlier this month. They will be presented at public hearings before the Board of Aldermen and Planning Commission in April.
Commitments have been obtained from Nordstrom, Macy's, Filene's and Lord & Taylor as anchor department stores and parcels of land totaling about 100 acres are optioned, much of it for roads, according to William McCabe, general partner of New England Development Corporation, the mall's developer.
There will be 150 additional stores, 2,350 indoor parking spaces and 2,650 outdoor spaces. The three-story building will have as its signature eight steel squarerigger masts rising 120 feet in the air through a skylight, some 66 feet higher than the roof and topped with flags. They are designed to recall images of New Haven and Long Wharf's past as a major port.
Viewing the mall from Interstate 95 or the harbor will reveal the Pirelli-Armstrong Tire and Rubber Building standing squarely in front of the central portion of the mall. Built in 1969 and designed by Marcel Breuer -- noted for his Unesco headquarters in Paris and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York -- its preservation was championed by the local Alliance for Architecture. It was listed on the Connecticut Register of Historic Places in 1997, and although it has no legal protection the developer agreed not to disturb it.
If construction on the mall starts in June as anticipated, it could be completed by the end of next year.
Rivalry among malls will continue and increase, said Mr. Bucksbaum of General Growth Properties. Competition in New England has been slower to develop, he said, "because of the high barrier to entry into the New England market."
Where malls serve as a catalyst for reviving cities with lagging economies, he said "they are the No. 1 or 2 tax contributor -- among the very few enterprises with the power to draw tens of thousands of outsiders into a community."
"From an economic standpoint, they are a very important source of revenue," he added.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of the Galleria at Long Wharf in New Haven, looking north. (Rochon)
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (63%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); HOME CENTERS (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); COPPER INDUSTRY (70%); APPROVALS (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



420 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: A Fan Saves an Art-Movie House in Baltimore

BYLINE: By CHARLES BELFOURE 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
FIVE years ago James Cusack, a fan of offbeat films, knew little about the movie-theater business. That changed when his nephew, John Standiford, told him that the Charles Theater, one of the city's two first-run art movie houses, was about to close.
Mr. Standiford, 34, was the assistant manager of the theater; his uncle has been a building contractor for the last 25 years. 
 "I had always gone to the Charles because I liked independent films more than the big studio movies," Mr. Cusack said. "I felt it would be a big cultural loss for the city if the theater closed." But the former operator of the Charles had walked away, abandoning its lease and leaving an intact movie theater, including projection equipment.
Mr. Cusack renegotiated the former tenant's lease with the owner, Bowling Inc., and reopened the 485-seat, 10,000-square-foot theater in 1994. Now he is about to complete a four-screen, 694-seat expansion of the Charles, using the rest of the space in a 23,000-square-foot building that was once used to garage and repair cable cars and then trolley cars.
 By putting together a $1.5 million package to finance the expansion, Mr. Cusack is not only giving Baltimore a new venue for nontraditional films, but is also bringing the first sizable commercial development project in four decades to a rundown section of Charles Street, Baltimore's main thoroughfare. The Charles Theater lies one block from Penn Station in a section that was once a major transportation hub.
The car barn was built in 1892 and used for its intended purpose until 1939. Then the United Electric and Railways Company sold the property to Bowling Inc., which wanted it used for entertainment activities. One initial tenant, at the south end of the building, was the Times Theater, the city's only all-newsreel theater at the time. Another tenant, at the north end, was a bowling alley.
During the 1940's a new second floor was built above the bowling alley, as the home of the Famous Ballroom, where jazz greats like Dizzy Gillespie and Buddy Rich played. The movie theater was renamed the Charles in 1958, and it became an art-movie house in the late 1970's. The rest of the space has been vacant in recent years.
Two years ago Alan Shecter, the vice president of Bowling Inc., gave Mr. Cusack a 40-year lease for the entire building. "I was impressed by Mr. Cusack's motivation and drive in operating the theater," said Mr. Shecter, who would not disclose the lease's terms. But then Mr. Cusack and Mr. Standiford had to find the financing for the expansion. They got help from Robert C. Embry Jr., president of the Abell Foundation, which provides money to organizations that promote economic growth here. The foundation agreed to guarantee a $720,000 loan from Mercantile Trust.
Help also came in the form of a $485,000 low-interest loan from the State of Maryland and a $79,000 grant from the Baltimore Development Corporation. Construction started a year ago.
 The building was put on the National Register of Historic Places last September and is eligible for the National Park Service's historic rehabilitation tax-credit program, which will raise additional equity to cover any cost overruns and pay down debt service.
To qualify for the program, the developers are restoring the original Romanesque Revival facade of the car barn. This involves the removal of a ceramic-tile facade added in the 1950's. It obscured three large windows with Romanesque arches.
Multiscreen operation is the key to survival in the movie-theater business, Mr. Cusack said, a lesson he learned soon after he took over the Charles in 1994. Without the current expansion, his business would have failed, he said. "With one screen, you're putting all your eggs in one basket to carry the business,' he said. "You don't have a move-over house to shift a movie." In a multiscreen building, when the popularity of a movie wanes it can be moved to a smaller screen and still produce revenue while a new film can be brought into the larger theater.
WITH Alex Castro of Baltimore as the architect, the space has been designed for four new screens with stadium seating. The new screening rooms will have 123, 151, 173 and 247 seats. In addition the original theater of 485 seats will be left intact and continue in operation, but its lobby will be available as sublease space for use as a cafe or restaurant.
The entrance will be relocated in the northern part of the building allowing the moviegoers to walk into a lobby 27 feet high, with the original theater to the right and the new screening rooms straight ahead. A box office and concession stand of glass, concrete and recycled industrial steel designed by an artist, John Maxwell, will greet patrons. The original brick walls will be left exposed in the lobby. A stairway will take patrons to a curving balcony leading to the top of the largest new screening room.
In late April the rebuilt Charles will open as host for the first Maryland Film Festival, which is to be an annual event presented by the Producers Club of Maryland, based in Baltimore, an organization that supports and raises funds for the State of Maryland Film Office.
It will run for four days, starting April 22, showing a mix of new films, documentaries and restored films. After the festival the theater will show first-run independent films as well as classic Hollywood and foreign films, as the Charles does currently. Its current offering is "The General," directed by John Boorman.
If the Charles succeeds, there is the expectation that new businesses will follow. "We would like to see more bar and restaurant potential once the Charles is up and running," said Jay Brodie, president of the Baltimore Development Corporation.
Although the theater is the most important project in the area, there are other evolving development efforts around Penn Station, according to Mr. Brodie. Amtrak is considering putting a hotel in the unused upper floors of the station as well as relocating the Greyhound station to a new facility in an adjacent parking lot. Three blocks to the south the University of Baltimore is planning a major expansion, including its first housing for students. There have been only a few isolated attempts to renovate the deteriorated housing to the east.
The Charles has developed a loyal following. Though the immediate neighborhood has had little new commercial investment, surrounding areas are more affluent, with the Johns Hopkins community a mile to the north, and the Maryland Institute College of Art four blocks to the south.
The presence of a new police kiosk now monitoring 20 new surveillance cameras in the surrounding blocks will, planners believe, draw many more people who were reluctant to visit an area they perceived as unsafe. In an attempt to lessen fears about car break-ins, there will be a reduced parking fee for patrons in lots surrounding the movie house.
One of the few historic elements on the interior of the car barn is a marble plaque with the names of the people involved in the original construction of the building in 1892. The last name listed will bring a smile to most Charles moviegoers. The superintendent of construction, John Waters shares the same name as the theater's most famous patron, the director John Waters, who is enthusiastic about the Charles's second life.
"The Charles is important to the cultural life of this city," said Mr. Waters, director of the 1972 cult classic "Pink Flamingos," whose latest film is "Pecker." "I know people who move out of cities because there aren't any good movies."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Cusack, left, inside a Charles Theater auditorium, with nephew, John Standiford. Exterior of theater. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Map of Baltimore, highlighting Charles Street and the Charles Theater.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES THEATER (BALTIMORE, MD); BOWLING INC CHARLES THEATER (90%); BOWLING INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHARLES THEATER (BALTIMORE, MD); BOWLING INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FILM (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); BOWLING (73%); BOWLING CENTERS (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (69%); 

PERSON: BELFOURE, CHARLES; CUSACK, JAMES JAMES CUSACK (93%); JOHN STANDIFORD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



421 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Restoring An Aging Bathtub

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
WHEN a car gets old and rusty you replace it. When a shirt gets stained and yellow you retire it. And when a carpet gets worn and shabby, you toss it out and get a new one.
But what do you do when the above conditions apply to an 800-pound hunk of porcelain in your bathroom?
"Did you ever try to get a bathtub into an elevator?" said Richard Toder, executive director of T/S Associates, a mechanical-systems consulting company in Manhattan. 
 Mr. Toder, a licensed plumber who has waltzed more than a few tubs out of tight corners, said that in addition to the logistical difficulties involved in hauling a cast-iron clunker out of a house or an apartment, replacing an existing fixture can also result in unexpected expenses when floor or walltiles are disturbed or broken or when a fragile old plumbing system must be replaced and brought up to code.
As a result, he said, it is becoming increasingly common for home and apartment owners to make the best of what they already have by restoring aging fixtures in place. And with coating materials and methods for applying them steadily improving, Mr. Toder said, there are now several cost-effective techniques available for refinishing, refacing, relining and generally rejuvenating deteriorating fixtures.
"If your tub holds water," he said, "restoration is probably the way to go."
The least expensive way to restore an existing fixture, he said, is to do it yourself.
"When economics are an issue, this would be the first approach," he said, explaining that homeowners can generally make at least a marginal improvement in the appearance of their fixtures by applying epoxy-based coatings made for that purpose and sold in most home centers.
But generally speaking, he said, such finishes do not hold up well and the quality of their appearance is dependent entirely on the skill of the amateur craftsman.
An alternative, of course, is to hire a professional and get the job done right.
"We do bathtubs, wall tiles, floor tiles, sinks and even toilets," said Francine Tumolo, an owner of Perma Ceram Enterprises, a Smithtown, N.Y., company that manufactures and distributes a "synthetic porcelain" reglazing product.
In most cases, she said, a bathtub can be reglazed with Perma Ceram in three or four hours and will be dry enough to use in 12. "To do a tub runs anywhere from $250 to $300," she said. "That comes with a five-year guarantee and a 15-year life expectancy." Ms. Tumolo said that her company could also reglaze ceramic-tile tub enclosures. "When we do tile, we spray right over the grout lines and seal them," she said. "That means no more scraping mildew with a toothbrush."
John Fred, president of Perma-Glaze Remodeling in Deer Park, N.Y., said that the finish material he uses is a polymer resin that provides the "look and feel of porcelain" when it cures. In most cases, Mr. Fred said, the first step in refinishing a bathtub or sink is to clean the fixture thoroughly, remove any existing rust or caulking materials, and fill any cracks or chips. Then, he said, the surface is "etched" with an acid wash to make it slightly porous, and primed with a rust-inhibiting primer.
The top coat of Perma-Glaze is then sprayed on, Mr. Fred said, and takes about 48 hours to fully cure. "We can accelerate the drying time with a heat lamp," he said, adding that in most cases, the Perma-Glaze top coat can be custom-matched to any color used by American Standard or Kohler, two large bath-fixture manufacturers. Perma-Glaze will also refinish wall tiles, Mr. Fred said, adding that the cost runs from $5 to $7 a square foot.
Donna Brennan, an owner of Worldwide Refinishing Systems in Ringwood, N.J., said that her company used a urethane-based finish originally developed for the aerospace industry. "We always use three coats," she said, adding that the finish material is sprayed on top of a special bonding solution applied after the surface is cleaned and etched. Ms. Brennan pointed out that since three finish coats are used, it is possible to completely change the color of the fixture being refinished.
"We've gone from hot-pink and black to all-avocado," she said. "And we have matching acrylic coatings that can be used to make any wood in the room match the fixtures."
Ms. Brennan said that homeowners should make sure that their refinishing contractor provides adequate ventilation of the potentially dangerous fumes that may result from the refinishing process.
"We use a filtered system that uses flexible tubing to vent fumes from the bathroom to the outside," she said. She cautioned that while mounting an exhaust fan in the bathroom window might remove fumes, it was also more likely to draw dust particles from other areas of the house and then deposit them in the finish coat on the fixture.
Ms. Brennan pointed out that, aside from the quality of the refinishing material used, the most significant determinant of the longevity of the restoration is the manner in which it is cleaned. "You should never scrub," she said. "And you should always use a nonabrasive cleaner."
For those who want a more durable finish than can be obtained by re-glazing, Ms. Brennan said, relining may be the answer. "Our tub liners start at around $700," she said.
With a tub liner, the existing tub is encased in the liner.
Linda Brakel, vice president of franchise operations for Bath Fitter, a liner manufacturer in South Burlington, Vt., said that her company could manufacture one-piece, quarter-inch-thick liners that are custom-tailored to fit each customer's tub.
"We have literally hundreds of molds," Ms. Brakel said.
The liners, she said, utilize existing plumbing connections and faucets and are typically indistinguishable from stand-alone bathtubs. And to complete the custom-made appearance, Ms. Brakel said, Bath Fitter franchisees can also install matching one-piece tub surrounds.
"It's completely seamless all around and from tub to ceiling," she said, adding that a typical tub-and-wall installation could run anywhere from $1,500 to $1,800. And though it may take a week or two after measurements are taken for the franchisee to install the unit, the actual installation can usually be completed in an afternoon.
Notwithstanding similar installation-time claims by nearly all re-finishers and reliners, Ms. Tumolo of Perma Ceram in Smithtown offered one final bit of advice applicable to all homeowners contemplating face-lifts for their bathtubs. "Bathe before we get there," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PERMA CERAM ENTERPRISES (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BATHROOMS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (76%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); FLOORING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HOME CENTERS (68%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY DONNA BRENNAN (69%); JOHN FRED (69%); RICHARD TODER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



422 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: What Lies Ahead In White Plains?;
As a $175 Million Project Appears to Weaken, Many Merchants' Plans May Be Dashed

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
FOR struggling merchants in this city's downtown, hope for an economic recovery in what was once known as the City of 1,000 Stores is dimming again.
A proposed $175 million retail, entertainment and housing complex -- seen as the key to revitalizing downtown White Plains -- appears to be running into difficulty. After a series of delays and uncertainty over prospective tenants, Tishman Speyer Properties of Manhattan has sharply reduced the project's scope. Documents filed with the city show that the developer has cut to three from six the number of properties it wants to acquire. 
 Steven M. Wise, a senior project director, said the company is worried about recent glitches in the economy and the intense competition -- some of it from the Internet -- developing for consumer dollars.
"Clearly, we were disturbed at what happened at the end of last summer on Wall Street," Mr. Wise said. "We're rethinking and repositioning ourselves." The company, he added, fears the impact of on-line business transactions on traditional retailing.
As a result, city officials and merchants have increasingly expressed concern in recent weeks that their downtown's rebirth may yet be a long way off.
Last winter, news that Tishman Speyer and Sony/Loews would build one of the nation's largest movie theaters in the abandoned Macy's department store here -- and would combine the theater with upscale retailing, restaurants and apartments -- prompted officials and business leaders to predict that the complex would foster more development.
But the euphoria was short lived, and a pall has again settled over Mamaroneck Avenue -- the main downtown thoroughfare where retailers and restaurateurs have seen the number of empty storefronts increase. As is the case in many other small- and medium-size cities in America the malls here have thrived while the downtown has withered.
"Like I have for the past two and a half years, I'm surviving," Jose Ortiz, one of the owners of Nicoluna, a Mexican arts and crafts store, said last week. "But I can't say for how much longer."
Tishman Speyer's plans originally called for 540,000 square feet of retail, entertainment and restaurant space and 450 units of rental apartments and 2,350 parking spaces. As the developer, Mayor Joseph M. Delfino and Loews announced in February last year, a central feature of the project was to be a 24-screen, 5,200-seat megaplex theater operated by Loews Theaters, a Sony Retail Entertainment company.
By last December, however, Tishman Speyer announced delays and said the complex, expected this year, would not be built before the turn of the century at the earliest. Construction has still not begun, and final plans have yet to be submitted to the city. Mr. Wise said the company was still negotiating with potential restaurateurs and merchants.
One White Plains business leader, who agreed to speak only on the condition of anonymity, said the developer had courted Fortunoff and Filene's Basement to no avail and was probably encountering difficulty finding other retailers. Mr. Wise declined to comment on that.
In recent weeks, there has been more worrisome news from Tishman Speyer. Late in February, the company wrote to Mayor Delfino, saying the developer intended to acquire fewer properties.
As Rita Z. Malmud, a City Councilwoman, said: "We're all very confused. We don't know what this means." Mrs. Malmud said the city had indicated its willingness through eminent domain to help Tishman Speyer acquire the six properties it needed for the housing portion of the project. News that the developer was no longer seeking the city's assistance, she said, "sent a chill down our spines." She added, "We're all going to be very disappointed if this project doesn't happen."
Merchants also expressed confusion. At Gatsby's, a men's clothing store, Edwin Vega, the manager, said renovations to the store were on hold. "We're waiting for something definite to happen across the street," he said. "It's taking a long time, and no one seems to know what the situation is."
Antonio Lacarbonara, owner of Antonio's restaurant, said he was also depending on the movie theater project to give his business a boost. "I'm trying to support a family," he said, explaining that his lunch business was faring well but that the theater and shopping complex promised to bring customers to the downtown in the evening and on weekends.
Mr. Ortiz at Nicoluna was especially worried. The store he rents is among the six properties that Tishman Speyer had said it intended to acquire. Either way, he said he is facing problems. If the developer acquires the property, Mr. Ortiz will have to move, with the likelihood of higher rent elsewhere. If the project stalls or is scaled back, his business will continue to struggle.
Only a few shopkeepers said they would thrive no matter what happens. Like Neal Gerstein, the owner of Kids Specs, an eyeglass store for children and young teen-agers, some merchants described their businesses as "destination stores" -- where customers shopped because they needed a particular item, not because they were passing by. "My business will survive no matter what happens across the street," the optometrist said.
Several entrepreneurs accused the city of not aggressively encouraging new business and failing to meet the needs of small merchants. In that sense, too, the businessmen said, the current situation was a repeat of the past where there were promises of better times to come and no results.
In response, Mayor Delfino and Councilwoman Malmud said the current administration had actively courted Tishman Speyer from the beginning and continued to do so, and at the same time it was addressing the needs of individual shopkeepers.
"In many situations, a city is the stumbling block, but that's not the case here," Mr. Delfino said. "The economy has slowed down, Tishman Speyer is relooking at the project and we have no choice but to wait to see what will happen."
Meanwhile, some say the city has never looked so down and out. "Over the years, I've seen White Plains go through many changes," said Alan Weinberger, owner of Handy Andy, a store that sells window treatments near Mamaroneck Avenue, "and I can't remember ever seeing so many empty storefronts as there are today."
Yet others say there are signs that a rebound is in the making. On Mamaroneck Avenue in recent months, the Westchester Council for the Arts recently moved into an empty bank building, Foot Locker opened where its ailing parent company Woolworth's stood and a Kinko's copying store took over space from a former Wallach's clothing store.
But what will actually happen is difficult to predict, observers said. Malachy Kavanagh, a spokesman for the Manhattan-based International Council of Shopping Centers, said significant changes are ahead in the retailing and entertainment industry, causing many developers to rethink strategies.
"Everyone these days wants a Disney-esque experience," Mr. Kavanagh said, citing the 1.9 million-square-foot Palisades Shopping Center in Nyack with its IMAX Theater, skating rink, Ferris wheel and amusement park. "It's happening because there is extreme competition today in the retail business."
Mr. Wise described a trend toward "entertailing," combining entertainment with shopping. For the proposed downtown complex here, Mr. Wise said it was especially important to find the right mix of entertainment, dining and retail establishments.
He denied reports that a overabundance of movie screens in Westchester had prompted Tishman Speyer to reconsider its project. About 130 new screens are being planned or seriously considered in communities like Port Chester, Tarrytown, Cortlandt, Elmsford and Ossining. The county now has 65 movie screens.
That trend mirrors what is happening elsewhere, with more than 2,000 screens opening across the United States last year, the most ever in a single year. Statistics also show that Americans went to the movies 1.4 billion times last year, spending $6.4 billion in tickets.
At the same time, the movie industry is going through a major change, transformed in recent years by new technologies ranging from computerized dinosaurs and other special effects to the collection and analysis of box office data. And within two years, movie theaters are expected to begin installing the first generation of digital projectors.
As Mr. Wise explained, "We have to plan not just for today but for tomorrow as well."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALAN WEINBERGER, in his store, Handy Andy. "I can't remember ever seeing so many empty storefronts," he said. Left, a view of White Plains, including the former Macy's. NEAL GERSTEIN, top, owner of Kids Specs, calls his store a "destination store" not particularly affected by foot traffic. He said he will survive "no matter what happens across the street." EDWIN VEGA, manager of Gatsby, said renovations would have to wait until "something definite" happens across the street. "No one seems to know what the situation is," he said. JOSE ORTIZ, top, part owner of Nicoluna, a Mexican arts and crafts store in White Plains, said he has been able to survive for two and a half years but added, "I can't say for how much longer." (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (82%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES LOEWS THEATRE MANAGEMENT CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING; RESTAURANTS RETAILERS (93%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (70%); FILM (70%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (64%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



423 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: Shelton or Huntington, What's in a Name?

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
WHEN it came to naming towns, settlers in Connecticut played it pretty safe. They simply named most of them for the communities they had left behind in England (Greenwich, Manchester, Oxford), some for biblical places (Bethlehem, Goshen), and a few for heroes of the new world (Washington, Madison). Most likely, the theory was that if a place got a nice name, it would last forever. And then there is Shelton.
In a way, Shelton is Connecticut's what's-in-a-name town. Or perhaps that should be what's-in-two-names town. In any case, it is the only town, out of 169 in the state, to change its name from that of one man to another, from a leading patriot of the 18th century named Huntington, to a leading industrialist of the 19th century named Shelton. 
 For most of this century, the town has been coping with the name problem it inflicted on itself. And particularly in the past few decades, many residents have opted to say they are from Huntington -- the town's first settlement area, which still looks like a picture postcard of rural New England -- rather than identifying themselves as being from Shelton, the section along the Housatonic River that became a industrial powerhouse in the last century and then faded into a cluster of grimy old factories.
"Today, 90 percent of the people in this town say they live in Huntington," says Beverly M. Brown, the town clerk of Shelton. "Sometimes I think we should change the name back to Huntington."
A recent news story out of Shelton might be used to demonstrate the dual-name nature of the town. The story was about what happened when the father of a 10-year-old girl objected to a sight to which the child was subjected when on the school bus: a full-scale reproduction of Michelangelo's David that adorns the grounds of a spiffy office park, Enterprise Towers. The statue of David, of course, is as nude in Shelton as it is in Florence, Italy.
In the accounts of what might be called the Battle of the Bare David, the location of Enterprise Towers is listed as Shelton, which is correct. But what is also correct is that if you asked most citizens of the town where Enterprise Towers is situated, chances are you would get the answer, "Oh, that's in Huntington," as if Huntington were a separate community out there somewhere, not simply the oldest section of Shelton.
The story of the town that changed its name, and now might wish it had not, goes back to 1789 when a new community was officially incorporated on land taken from the older town of Stratford. The name selected by the original settlers was Huntington, for Samuel Huntington, and that was a fine choice.
You couldn't find a more revered name for a new town in Connecticut at the time-- except perhaps Washington, but the Father of Our Country had a Connecticut town named for him 10 years earlier.
In 1789, Samuel Huntington was the governor of Connecticut, serving the fourth of 10 consecutive one-year terms before he died in office. Of even more note, he had been a very important person during the Revolutionary War, first as a signer of the Declaration of Independence, later as president of the Continental Congress when the Articles of Confederation went into effect, creating a unified country. Even today, particularly in his home town of Scotland in the eastern part of the state, he is regarded by some as the real first president of the United States, George Washington notwithstanding.
In any case, in 1789, Mr. Huntington was undoubtedly honored by having a town named for him. And a fine town it was, an uncluttered place of farms and gently rolling hills, leading to the Housatonic River on the east and with the green, to the west, situated far from the water. In the census of 1850 the town's population was listed at 1,301.
In the second half of the 19th century, however, the section of the town along the Housatonic would become an industrial powerhouse, primarily because of one man: He was Edward Nelson Shelton, born in Huntington in 1812 and a very rich man by the time he was 40. His first major venture was the Shelton Tack Company, making products that turned out to be as valuable as gold during the gold rush in California. A pound of gold there was worth $192; so too was a pound of tacks from Connecticut.
After the Civil War was over, the enterprising Mr. Shelton decided to harness the power of the river at the back door of his hometown. He organized, and was first president, of a water power company that built a dam across the river from Huntington to the community of Derby on the other side.
He was hands-on in his approach. According to a history of Shelton published by the League of Women Voters, Mr. Shelton "promoted industry along the section served by the new dam, using every means at his disposal. He furnished capital to companies that would build there, offered favorable water power franchises, and even built factories."
The effort was well worth it. What resulted was a boast by the town that its riverfront was "a mile of busy factories making everything from pins to pianos."
There was a cost, of course. Shad fishermen to the north of Huntington had warned that the dam would ruin their fisheries. And it did. In addition, the color of the river water at Huntington was constantly changing, depending on what chemicals were being discharged from the mile of busy factories. But no one was bothering much about such matters at the time.
Edward Shelton was so identified with the success of the dam that the waterfront area of mills and adjacent enterprises became known as Shelton and in 1882 became a borough of Huntington under that name.
Edward Shelton died two years later, at the age of 82, with his legacy secure: a town that had grown considerably -- the census of 1900 listed the population at 5,572 -- and was prospering mightily because of the industry on the river.
In 1915, with a huge war starting in Europe, and the mills on the Housatonic throbbing with activity, the waterfront borough of Shelton was incorporated as the city of Shelton for the same reasons other mill towns created cities within their borders: The congested factory and commercial areas needed more fire and police protection, sewers, sidewalks, social services, and a political entity to provide them.
Unlike other Connecticut towns that established cities within parts of their territories but kept their original town names, the political leaders of Huntington decided to sever the original name.
A townwide vote was held on changing the name of the entire town to Shelton. It passed, and was submitted to the state's General Assembly for approval, a legal necessity. On April 15, 1919, the state legislators voted to change the name.
As if by magic, the town of Huntington no longer existed, replaced by a town named Shelton, creating a name change on maps and unquestionably a bonanza for lawyers working on real estate documents.
The name of Huntington lived on, unofficially, as the section of the town to the west that contained the old town green. Shelton, nee Huntington, flourished during the postwar period but suffered in the Great Depression when industry nearly came to a standstill. At one time, a quarter of the population was on some sort of public assistance and some companies shut down forever. Business picked up during World War II and the cold war that followed but some of the mills were becoming obsolete. And the worst was yet to come.
Toward midnight on March 1, 1975, a series of explosions and fires destroyed a plant of the Sponge Rubber Company on the river in what the F.B.I. later described as the biggest case of industrial arson ever in the United States. No one was killed but nearly 1,000 people were suddenly out of work. The city was declared an economic disaster area.
In the nearly quarter of a century since, the population of Shelton has increased steadily -- the 1990 census recorded it as 35,418 -- but not in the old downtown and industrial section by the river.
The growth has come in the outlying sections known by such enticing names as White Hills, Sunnyside, Pine Rock Park and, ah yes, Huntington.
To a great many residents of the town, the Huntington section -- with its blend of lovely old green, stone walls, stately homes, meandering brook, coupled with a modern golf course, new houses on spacious lots, enterprise zone for industry, low-key commercial development, even a full-size statue of David -- represents Shelton, not the grimy old downtown and industrial area over there on the river.
Indeed, many residents of Shelton, no matter where they live in the town, identify it as Huntington.
It is a matter of status, of course. "There's a lot of class differential in this town," says Beverly Brown, the Town Clerk. "Real estate people never, never mention the word 'Shelton,' here," she adds.
Mayor Mark A. Lauretti does not enjoy talking about the name aspect of his town. "Oh, oh," he says when it is first brought up. "I try not to get into that issue too much." But he is an agreeable man, and good politician, and explains that he thinks the latter-day substitution of the name Huntington for Shelton "kind of involved the promotion of the town by real estate people. It's easier to portray the residential development in the outskirts, from an image standpoint, than a blue-collar mill town.
The back-to-Huntington movement, he adds, "is a long standing joke in town. But most people are not serious about it. If you don't pay too much attention to it, it might disappear. One never knows."
Besides, says the Mayor, things are looking up for the part of the town on the Housatonic. "We're doing great things on the river," he says. "We have a huge rehabilitation project going on, between the state and the town. And downtown is alive and well. The vacancy rate is way down and we've got lots of interest by private developers."
At age 44, he is in his fourth term as Mayor and says he is going to run for a fifth term in the fall, no matter what anyone calls his town.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Far left, the town green in the Huntington section of Shelton, and left, Howe Avenue in downtown Shelton. Above, an abandoned car near Canal Street, an old industrial area of the community. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 20); A stone at the center of the Huntington green (top) and the Shelton family monument in a cemetery in the Huntington section of Shelton. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
 
Map of Connecticut shows location of Shelton. (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: SHELTON TACK CO (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHELTON (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL SAMUEL HUNTINGTON (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



424 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/The Rev. John Thompson;
Battling for Children's Lives Amid a War

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
IT could have been Germany in the 1940's, but it is Sierra Leone today. Soldiers arrive at the door searching for people to conscript or shoot. Upstairs people silently huddle together, hearts racing.
This is the Sierra Leone that the Rev. John Thompson knows. He was sent there by the Salesian Provincial House in New Rochelle, where he is based. Born and raised in the Panama Canal Zone (his father was American, his mother had British citizenship) Father Thompson came to the United States in 1965 and did his seminary work in Goshen in Orange County. He studied philosophy and was ordained as a Salesian priest in the Roman Catholic Church in 1979. 
 Since 1980, he has worked on various assignments with the Salesians, first in Liberia and now in Sierra Leone, which has a continuing civil war. A monitoring group established by the Economic Community of West African States, known as Ecomog, restored a civilian government after a 1997 coup, but rebels remain active. Father Thompson, 48, works with street youths in Freetown, which has not routinely been under rebel attack; his ministry has about 150 children in programs. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with Father Thompson, who expects to return to Sierra Leone next month:
Q. What is the Salesian philosophy?
A. The Salesians of Don Bosco are about 100 years old, specializing in taking care of poor and abandoned youths. They run schools, especially vocational schools, and youth centers and street children's programs for poor and abandoned youths.
Q. When one hears that even United Nations monitors are committing atrocities in Sierra Leone, how can you keep from becoming immobilized?
A. I guess you have a calling to be a missionary and when the war gets close to you and you start seeing mutilations, start seeing the useless slaughter of people, it's tough. But you go on because the war is there and you have to. I don't know, it's not everyone who can do that. And then, of course, you have all the other problems there. I can tell you that the monitoring group does have its failings. They do kill rebel sympathizers instead of taking them prisoners. But they also take a lot of them prisoners; the other side does not. The rebels mutilate left and right, torture and kill.
Q. You must wonder how people can do these things to one another?
A. You're always thinking that, especially when you talk about mutilations. You're talking about people taking a machete and chopping people. One man I know of was hit 15, 16 times with a machete. I've seen many people brutally hurt like that. You think war is just so terrible. And especially when we're talking about the rebel side, a lot of them use drugs when they go into battle. Uppers and at times Valium, and most of them are all smoking marijuana.
Q. What is this war doing to the children?
A. You have children who have missed their childhood and are being thrown into being murderers. I have seen so many 11-, 12-, 13-year-olds who start out with the rebels by carrying the guns and ammunition. Later on they learn how to fire the guns, and they become full-fledged commandos when they are 13, 14 and 15.
Q. At that age is it a macho reaction?
A. Yes. It gives them such power. I have seen a 13-year-old boy stand in front of a person who was his total superior, his chief in the village and go to a tribal chief and yell at that chief, Sit down, do this. With the gun, he's now god. He can say, "Girl, come here and take all your clothes off." There is tremendous power. And when they feel that, they are so happy; it's a narcotic.
I have seen nice girls all of a sudden hanging around with these guys because they want a few diamonds or whatever. Even they start changing and acting very bad. I have seen such terrible changes. But then on the other hand, what we are doing is taking kids and getting these ex-killers and seeing if they can be rehabilitated. And surprisingly some of these kids really are not just as devastated as we would think. Some of them come back to society, with love and some discipline. It just keeps hope out there. But when you see them doing these things it's so terrible.
Q. Who are these children?
A. Our children are the kids who sleep in the marketplace. Our kids are market street children who have either left their families or been thrown out by their families or are war orphans.
Q. Are they killers themselves?
A. Our children are not involved in any fighting. The war has not been heavy in Freetown, where we're located, until recently. The danger is that our children will get abducted by the rebels. Then they have them start carrying the loads. After a while they say, Fire this, fire that and say, "We're fighting for a better Sierra Leone." Then when the kid gets the gun in his hand, he feels the power. Some of the kids say, I'm not going back to my family. Others want to go back to their families.
They're hoping to get young men. Four of our boys were abducted, but all four returned to us, two within about three or four days, the others within a month. In other words, when they had a chance, they escaped. That already shows a good thing. Instead of becoming a good rebel they came back to us. That gave us great hope.
Q. How old are the children you work with?
A. Ages 10 to 17 are the main ages for our night shelter. We take these children, only boys at this time, and try to give them reading, writing and arithmetic. Then we try within six to nine months to put them back into regular schools and back with their families, maybe an aunt or an uncle. If that doesn't work, we stay with them another year, and then we try again to put them in foster families if it doesn't work out with their own families. And we have a program begun this last August for the older boys, 17 to 25. These are the big young men on the streets who don't have jobs.
Q. If there had not been a civil war, Sierra Leone, because of the poverty, would still need these kinds of services, correct?
A. The war brings more onto the streets but even without the war, Sierra Leone is comparable in poverty to say, Haiti in the Western Hemisphere. Sierra Leone is about the poorest country in Africa. It does have the wealth of the diamonds, which a lot of white people are jumping at and trying to get at, even black people, too. But the country is dirt poor and had a problem with street children even before the war.
Q. These children may be relatively street smart, but aren't they still children who need love and the other things children generally need?
A. You know, it's funny; all that is there. When you see them on the street, they're dancing with us, they're shouting, singing and they have a life. They're living. They're not always looking terrible. They're happy. But when we start interviewing them and asking them questions about families, they're all saying the same thing: I want to get back to my family, or my father doesn't love me, my mother doesn't love me.
They really just want a stable place and some happiness in their lives, and they also want to get back into school because they see many schoolchildren passing them every day. While they may taunt these schoolchildren, they secretly admire their life.
It's a sad situation. It's aggravated by the war. But when you start working with them you can see a lot of progress and hope. In Liberia and in Sierra Leone, we have been so bolstered by our children. We have a three-floor building in Middletown, about four blocks from the American Embassy. The rebels came around our building outside with their guns looking for people, shouting. Our children were up on the third floor dead quiet. Nobody would talk, and the staff was with them. And our children had to sneak in and out for two or three days until the rebels were driven out by the Ecomog forces. We were so fortunate because so many times the rebels were right at our door, and they could have found out we had 125 kids, a gold mine for their kind of labor. It was our Lord taking care of them.
Q. It sounds so much like people hiding out from the Nazis.
A. It's just like that. If you revere life, you don't want to be abducted. And let's say they were to catch our 125 children. To get their attention quickly they may tell a couple of kids to put their arms on the block and then cut off their arms, just to get the attention of the other kids that they better do exactly what they are told.
Q. What should the United States or individual Americans do to help?
A. I really think the U.S. should actively help the forces of good against the forces of evil. The democratic-elected government is for peace. I'm not against investigating crimes on both sides, but the Ecomog forces basically have restored the legitimate authority and are generally going by law and order.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. John Thompson, at the Salesian Provincial House in New Rochelle, heads a ministry in Sierra Leone amid continuing civil war. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: SIERRA LEONE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); GERMANY (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (57%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIERRA LEONE; SIERRA LEONE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (92%); GERMANY (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CIVIL WAR (78%); COUPS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PHILOSOPHY (75%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (71%); TORTURE (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (67%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, JOHN (REV); GREENE, DONNA MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



425 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: State's Insurance Industry Reinvents Itself

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
THE darkest clouds have finally parted over Connecticut's insurance industry. Mergers are smaller; layoffs are a sprinkle of what they were earlier in the 90's, and many companies have begun hiring again.
Still, the gloom hasn't completely disappeared, and the industry's future, say economists and analysts, won't ever be as bright as in decades past. 
 "The shakeout is over, the restructuring is over, the situation is not going to get much worse," said Kevin H. McIntyre, a senior economist with Regional Financial Associates, an economic forecasting firm in West Chester, Pa. "But most of the jobs that are gone in insurance in Connecticut are gone for the foreseeable future."
That means the end of an era for the state and especially for Hartford, often called the insurance capital of the world, though for reasons that have to do more with history and hyperbole than with statistics.
Never again will a thick queue of somber suits walk each weekday -- the poet Wallace Stevens was once one of them -- to insurance jobs from downtown Hartford neighborhoods like Asylum Hill.
Never again will Aetna be "Mother Aetna," a once-common reference to the insurance giant's now-abandoned, job-for-life paternalism.
Never again will Hartford depend on the heads of the city's largest insurance companies, known as "the bishops," who, along with a few other corporate leaders, guided the state capital as much, if not more, than any city council.
"All that's gone: the influence, the way the companies operate, the corporate culture," said David A. Ivry, a professor emeritus of insurance at the University of Connecticut in Storrs and at the University of Hartford. "It's not coming back either," he added. "The industry has shrunk and changed."
Indeed, statewide employment among insurance carriers based in Connecticut, excluding insurance agents, is still less than it was in its heyday of the mid-80's to early 90's. And it has only increased by slightly less than 2,000 since the recent low of 58,000 in 1995, according to Regional Financial Associates. The current level of 60,000 jobs is approximately how many were employed in 1984.
The projections aren't much better, either. The industry may post a net gain of only another 4,000 jobs in the state by 2010. That still leaves it 6,500 positions shy of its high of 70,500 in the spring of 1991.
That estimate, however, hasn't dampened the civic and economic enthusiasm these days in beleaguered Hartford, where about three-quarters of the employees of the state's insurance companies work.
"The optimism and energy in Hartford has not been this high for over a decade," said Jay S. Fishman, president and chief executive officer of Travelers Property and Casualty.
Fairfield County has also become a major insurance center, especially for reinsurance, the business of insuring other insurance companies' risks against losses from claims.
Thus many leaders in the insurance industry in the state wonder if the current economic forecasts are too conservative. Officials at Travelers Property and Casualty, for instance, project modest growth, possibly hiring as many as 1,000 people in 1999.
This new hiring, though, should it come to pass, comes not only in the wake of much larger layoffs at Travelers in the mid-90's but also more recent job shedding. The company laid off 308 people last October, when a subsidiary failed, and another 550 in 1997, a bad year for many Connecticut insurers.
"Our company was under a great deal of financial stress, as were many others, as a result of the collapse of the United States real estate market," Mr. Fishman said. "But over the last five years we've brought our company back to health and are now in the strongest financial position ever. At this point," he continued, "I don't see anything on the horizon to dampen that optimism; in fact, we see many positive signs in our industry."
A spokesman for Travelers Property and Casualty, Keith F. Anderson, added that new employees are not surprised that companies almost synonymous with layoffs in recent years are hiring again.
"There was always hiring going on, even during the downsizing," he said, noting that attrition rates at large companies run from 3 to 8 percent a year, which, paradoxically perhaps, can force the need for new workers even during layoffs.
Perhaps, but the Travelers company rebound is a small one. In the mid-80's, when the Travelers was one company including property and casualty, life and health, the Connecticut work force was about 14,000.
Since then the company has since been split into Travelers Property and Casualty and Travelers Life and Annuity, owned either largely or entirely by Citigroup in New York City. Together, the companies now employ 6,500 in Connecticut, all but a few in Hartford. But Travelers is an extreme example since it was hit hard by bad investments and the recession earlier in the 90's as well as by industry-wide changes and consolidation.
If one blue chip insurance company in Connecticut has weathered the 90's well, and seems to be carrying on in the manner of old, it is probably The Hartford. The company's work force has increased from 9,100 in 1996 to 11,200 as of early February. The company is broadening into financial services; indeed, it is now called the Hartford Financial Services Group. "We're a growing company and Connecticut is our home," said Joyce Willis, a vice president at The Hartford. "Proof of that is the number of new jobs we've created. But we haven't stopped there. We're active in several initiatives to revitalize Hartford, particularly education and downtown Hartford."
Aetna, the third of the big three insurers based in Hartford, however, is barely recognizable from a decade ago. Perhaps for the best, though some might say bloodily, the company has transformed itself into a health care insurer from an old-fashioned multi-line insurer; it has done so by selling off its life insurance as well as other lines and buying companies like U.S. Healthcare.
Aetna currently employs 11,600, up from 10,000 in mid-1996 but still down from 15,000 in 1995. Company officials had no earlier numbers on employment statewide. "We have been completely reengineered," said a company spokesman, Fred Laberge.
At smaller insurance carriers in the state there have been continuing layoffs, although nothing like the job losses of five years ago. In December 1998, for instance, North Dakota-based Reliastar Financial Corporation, which owns Security-Connecticut Life Insurance Company, announced that it would eliminate 165 jobs at Security-Connecticut's operations in Avon, near Hartford, starting in June of next year.
There have also been several recent mergers, which always raises the specter of more layoffs.
Last year, the Berkshire Hathaway company of Omaha, Neb., run by Warren Buffett, bought the world's third largest reinsurance company, General Re in Stamford for $22 billion. And earlier this month, the Chubb Corporation, of Warren, N.J., annouced that it was buying Executive Risk in Simsbury for $810 million.
"We expect the insurance industry to continue to consolidate," said Jeffrey L. Sawyer, an insurance expert with Deloitte Consulting.
"The low growth rate in the insurance sector is forcing organizations to seek growth through mergers and acquisitions, expansion of product lines into other financial service-related areas, or through global expansion into markets that have a higher rates of growth," he said. "Given those dynamics, it's likely that this consolidation is affecting Connecticut -- as well as other parts of the country," he said.
Mr. Sawyer said that another major industry change is a move away from multi-lined business toward very specific lines, as Aetna has done by moving aggressively into health care insurance or The Hartford has done with financial services.
Why the consolidation in the insurance industry? One reason, analysts say, is the decline in life insurance, which has been largely supplanted by mutual funds as an investment tool. And the property-casualty business has become an increasingly competitive area with low growth and low return on equity.
There are more complicated reasons as well. Robert Carter, an insurance lawyer in Washington, said that many companies today buy their insurance in a much different way. "Traditionally, a company would buy liability insurance with a low deductible or self-insured retention,"he said. "Today, corporations self-insure or only buy insurance for catastrophic losses. As a result, a lot of United States insurance companies have found it necessary to consolidate to survive."
Another trend is that gradually several Connecticut-based insurers have sold their lines to Bermuda-based insurance companies.
For instance, Cigna, which is based in Philadelphia but has a large number of employees in Connecticut, sold its property and casualty insurance lines to Bermuda-based ACE for $3.45 billion. And Greenwich-based NAC Re, a reinsurer, is about to be acquired by the Bermuda insurer XL Capital for $1 billion.
The Cigna and NAC Re transactions may not result in layoffs, at least not immediately, as ACE intends to keep open several Cigna departments in the state, and XL intends to use its purchase of NAC Re as a foothold to expand its business in the United States.
But Mr. Carter added that for several reasons Bermuda has become the most effective place to run an insurance operation: companies there can offer insurance for punitive damages, for example. "Bermuda has always been known as an insurance mecca," he said. "It is the go-to market for excess insurance and the go-to market for insurance companies to buy reinsurance. It is not surprising that Connecticut-based insurance companies are relocating."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SKYLINE -- Among office towers visible from across the Connecticut River in East Hartford are the Travelers Tower with its thin spire and the Phoenix, with its dark boat shape. TRANSFORMATION -- Aetna (home office on Farmington Avenue, right) has gone from an old-fashioned multi-line insurance company to health care insurer. WEATHERING THE 90'S -- The Hartford (below) is branching into financial services. Mass Mutual (below, right), which used to be Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, shares the Asylum Hill section of Hartford with The Hartford. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS CO (87%); CASUALTY&TRAVELERS LIFE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; LABOR INSURANCE (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CITIES (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CORPORATE CULTURE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



426 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Treacherous Days Recalled

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
IT was a golden time when a group of theater artists had a communal cause and the cause was theater art. How fitting that they would create a company and call it the Group Theater.
That was in 1931, which was anything but a golden time for the world. But the Great Depression informed the Group Theater's work, which became emblematic of the artists' bread and butter. 
 The Group Theater "aimed to do something fundamentally different from Broadway," in the words of the director and critic Harold Clurman, one of the theater's founders with Cheryl Crawford and Lee Strasberg. The members used "scripts not as economic bait but for the pertinence of what they have to say," Mr. Clurman wrote. When the fabled theater folded after nine years, Mr. Clurman explained that "when you have chosen to sustain a permanent acting company, persistence in pursuing the ordinary cause of theatrical production becomes folly." The Group Theater had no stars. But it begat stars.
Charter -- and stellar -- members included Clifford Odets, a resident actor who developed into its leading playwright; Elia Kazan, also an actor on his way to theater and film legend as a director, and the actor Morris Carnovsky.
After the Group disbanded, many members -- Odets, Carnovsky and Kazan among them -- went to Hollywood in search of fame and fortune. And the treacherous days of Hollywood blacklisting were not far behind. Odets cooperated with the House Committee on Un-American Activities. He named names. So did Mr. Kazan, to many of the unforgiving still champion of the nefarious informers. Mr. Carnovsky would not name names. He was blacklisted but, he later said, nurtured and strengthened as an actor. Banished from Hollywood, he finally became a star in New York -- and an incomparable Shakespearean actor at the age of 60.
Phoebe Brand, one of Connecticut's treasure troves of living history, saw and survived it all. And she wants to talk about a renaissance of the dream part. But not about Kazan.
Ask Ms. Brand about the 89-year-old director who is to receive an honorary Academy Award tonight amid protest by blacklist survivors and others, and Ms. Brand says simply: "Let's just leave it." Actually, she pares her reaction to Kazan the director, Kazan the honoree and Kazan the man to just two words: "Enough already."
The 91-year-old actress and director, a Group Theater alumnus, had a marriage of 60 years to Mr. Carnovsky, who died in their home in Easton in 1992 at the age of 94. Ms. Brand is staging two current readings of Odets's "Golden Boy," one at the library in Weston on Friday at 8 P.M., the other at Theater Artists Workshop (5 Gregory Boulevard in East Norwalk) on Saturday. Ms. Brand played Anna Banana, who has been described as a sweet naive sexpot, in the storied original 1937 Group Theater cast of one of Odets's best-known works. That cast included Frances Farmer, Luther Adler, Lee J. Cobb, Mr. Carnovsky, Kazan, Howard da Silva, Karl Malden and Jules (later to become John) Garfield.
Although it is subtitled "A Modern Allegory," "Golden Boy" is still perceived as a morality play -- and to some, just a melodrama -- about the conflicts of an artistic soul in a material world. Joe Bonaparte (played by Mr. Adler in the original production, William Holden in the movie, Sammy Davis Jr. in a Broadway musical version, Michael Lombardi in the Connecticut readings) is a promising violinist who chooses to become a prizefighter. The plot involves a killing and a suicide.
In its last production in New York in 1995, the play had strong ties to Connecticut, with Greg Naughton as Joe and his real life father, James Naughton, who lives in Weston, as Joe's manager. Joanne Woodward directed.
Of "Golden Boy," Ms. Brand said, "it's still a knockout play. And young people have the same problem about the choice between what your heart says and what can make money, about what you want to do with your life."
"In those days, gangsterism ran the country," Ms. Brand continued. "It's really easier today. Too easy." Without reaching for a metaphor, she added, "you had to fight just to exist. The play is about a fight." Among her "Golden Boy" memories, she recounted the play's London run. "The audience sat very quietly and we thought, 'They don't like us.' Then they just stood up and yelled. It was a language they fell in love with."
What Ms. Brand means about the relative ease of life today is the lack of passion in, and commitment to, theater. "But people do speak up," she said. "And I believe in the people. I don't know why -- but in the long run, they do come through. They don't put up with the nonsense in this country for too long." She talked of Watergate and Ken Starr, if only to believe that "the dirty business stopped."
Ms. Brand has been living in Easton for 33 years. She said that the blacklist "didn't bother us as much as it did our friends. They suffered." She mentioned Mady Christian and Canada Lee. "They had heart attacks and died. There was terror. We knew what Hitler had done. And we said, 'My God, it's happening here.' "
"It was a terrible, dreadful period. But we were saved by the people."
"People today," she said, "don't know what it was like -- the Depression, the blacklisting -- they can't believe it. We had no money but we had a theater. We all helped each other and worked together. It was difficult to see people in the streets -- dying, no coats. No one believed it."
Ms. Brand continued: "And my husband was able to work in the theater." They formed a touring company, the Actors Concert Theater, with Mr. DaSilva.
In 1953, Mr. Carnovsky began a two-year Off Broadway run in "The World of Sholem Aleichem." It was at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford that John Houseman hired Mr. Carnovsky to play the Earl of Salisbury in "King John." His most famous roles -- Shylock (Katharine Hepburn was Portia) and Lear followed.
"I know money talks in this country," Ms. Brand went on. "But what is rich? Rich is talent and imagination and love and art. Say Germany and you think of Beethoven. England, Shakespeare. Italy, Greece, all the art. So what's more important for us here than keeping the theater alive? Art is life and all my life has been art."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phoebe Brand, in the arms of Morris Carnovsky, with John Garfield and Lee J. Cobb in 1936 cast of "Golden Boy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GOLDEN BOY (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: KAZAN, RUSSIA (50%); 

COMPANY: GROUP THEATER (DEFUNCT)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP THEATER (DEFUNCT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KAZAN, RUSSIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; THEATER THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); WRITERS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); 

PERSON: ODETS, CLIFFORD (1906-63); BRAND, PHOEBE; KLEIN, ALVIN; CLURMAN, HAROLD; CRAWFORD, CHERYL; STRASBERG, LEE HAROLD EDGAR CLURMAN (92%); CHERYL CRAWFORD (71%); LEE STRASBERG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



427 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Ruffling Fuzzy Conservatism Is Goal of Liberal Watchdog

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Liberals in other parts of the country have been rescued time and again from the consequences of their own silliness by the scary behavior of conservatives, but liberals in New Jersey have not had this advantage.
New Jersey conservatism may have a harsh underlying message -- that taxes are evil, and if you can't afford to pay the ones on your house, it's your own fault -- but the message is dressed up in fuzzy suburban good manners. ("No shouting, please -- we're from Jersey.") So what's a good liberal to do? 
 Jon Shure has spent all of his life in public affairs of one kind or another, first as a reporter for The Record of Hackensack, then as former Gov. Jim Florio's director of communications and most recently as a vice president of the Century Foundation in Manhattan.
And Mr. Shure says he has come out of half a lifetime of watching politics more hopeful and idealistic, not less. So for the last two years he has borrowed a page from conservative political tacticians and created New Jersey Policy Perspective (www. epn.org/njpp), a progressive research organization, scrupulously nonpartisan but unafraid to wear its bleeding heart on its sleeve.
"We're borrowing an idea that the right wing knows so well: that if you want to be in on the debate, you have to be in there at the beginning, setting the terms of the debate," Mr. Shure said. He offered an example: early talk of reforming welfare turned into a mandate to end welfare as we know it, Mr. Shure believes, because conservatives imposed on the debate a starting premise that welfare was a failure.
Mr. Shure intends to make Policy Perspective a player in the debates over New Jersey's future, particularly in the issues that will drive the 2000 Senate race, as well as the governor's race the next year.
"Our aim is to do good research, write it in a way that is useful and readable, and then market the hell out of it," Mr. Shure said. And one more thing: his research organization will have a point of view. "People have called us a liberal think tank, and I don't have a problem with that," he said. "I want people to know where we're coming from."
To hear him tell it, Mr. Shure has two main ideas that argue for a liberal research organization in New Jersey. One is that the state has, for all its silence, a sizable liberal population clustered around the universities and research institutions, as well as unions, who would be natural consumers of the his reports. And the second is a question: who else would do it?
"I doubt that a right-wing group would even bother to research and do a report on income distribution in the state," he said, showing just a little bit of steel, "not because their results would be different from ours but because they just wouldn't care."
New Jersey Progressive Policy has produced four reports so far, each focused on fiscal matters, questions of income, taxation and public spending that underlie just about every element of public policy debate in the state, H.O.V. lanes and public toilets named after radio personalities excepted.
The first report came in January 1998, when Henry J. Raimondo, a professor of policy at Rutgers University, spelled out the damage that would be done to Federal aid to New Jersey by the drive to balance the Federal budget: $2 billion in lost grants, brakes on Medicare payments, a squeeze in money for Washington-dependent state agencies like Environmental Protection, Community Affairs and Transpiration.
Then, in August 1998, David C. Mattek, a veteran New Jersey policy analyst, took on the Senior Tax Freeze, the Whitman Administration's program to indemnify low-income and elderly homeowners from real estate tax creep by having the state pay for any increases after 1998.
Mr. Mattek concluded that the Senior Freeze would cost more than forecast and would hand the state Legislature and the governor who takes over in 2001 a classic political time bomb: an untouchable entitlement that's running a deficit.
In January, Mr. Shure did the math and reported that even with a legislative proposal to raise the state threshold for tax liability (for a two-parent family) to $13,000 from $7,500, New Jersey would remain among the least generous, and behind its neighbors' more progressive thresholds, which run as high as $21,100 in New York State.
That report caught the attention of the legislative leadership and produced talk of raising the minimum tax liability.
But the most recent report, brought out this month, is a more conventional exercise in lamentation without solution for which conservatives like to chide liberals. Judith M. Fields, an economist at Lehman College, found what most people would guess: that the rich are hogging most of the income pie.
Why even bother to report such a commonplace?
"It is up to us to advocate economic and social policies and encourage political debate that measure our progress against the ideal, " Dr. Fields wrote. "And in order to do that, we need to know where we stand."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iver Peterson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); NEW JERSEY POLICY PERSPECTIVE (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); NEW JERSEY POLICY PERSPECTIVE (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US) CONSERVATISM (93%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; SHURE, JON MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



428 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2812 words

HEADLINE: In the Suburbs, the Only Direction Is Up

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
BY just about any measure, 1998 was quite a year for the residential real estate market.
"A Mark McGwire housing economy," was the way James Hughes, dean of the Rutgers University School of Planning and Public Policy, put it, "like hitting 70 home runs." 
 "Essentially, for the housing industry," Dr. Hughes said, "all the economic and demographic stars were in full alignment." So, whether viewed from a national, regional or local perspective, a lot of people bought houses -- despite near-pandemic price increases.
In the suburban arc around New York City, every one of the 577 ZIP-code areas in 14 counties saw prices increase last year, according to repeat-sales figures compiled by Case Shiller Weiss, which surveys housing prices nationally. The year's performance was so strong that observers and interpreters of the market are debating its sustainability.
Lifting off from a launch pad of solid economic fundamentals -- low inflation, low unemployment, low and very stable mortgage rates -- the industry set records:
The 4.78 million sales of existing homes in the nation last year broke the previous record of 4.21 million sales set in 1997, which had broken the previous record of 4.08 million sales set in 1996, according to the National Association of Realtors. "You're talking 550,000 more homes sold last year than in 1997," said Fred Flick, chief economist for the association. "That's a pretty sizable increase."
The sale of 888,000 newly constructed homes last year broke the national record of 819,000 set in 1977, according to the Census Bureau. "You had all regions going full throttle," said Steven Berman, a statistician for the bureau's residential statistics branch. "The Midwest set a record of 166,000 new homes sold. The South set a record, 397,000. The West had its third best year ever, 244,000. And the Northeast had 82,000 sales, its highest since 1989, when it was 86,000."
Not surprisingly, the nation's home-ownership rate set a record in 1998, with 66.3 percent of all households owning their own homes, the Census Bureau reported.
New York State set a record for existing-home sales, according to the New York State Association of Realtors, with the 86,661 transactions surpassing by 14.3 percent the high of 75,796 sales in 1996. "It was a tremendous year for New York's real estate market," said Charles Staro, executive vice president of the state realtors association, "evidenced by the fact that 37 of our 40 local boards posted sales gains." In Westchester County, to cite one dramatic example, sales last year jumped 50.1 percent, spurring -- in the opinion of one real estate executive in neighboring Rockland County -- a 94.8 percent vault in Rockland's sales as house-hungry buyers widened their sights.
Those were extremes, to be sure. But sales-volume increases in neighboring states last year were certainly healthy: 13.4 percent in New Jersey and 13.9 percent in Connecticut. For the 10 counties of northern New Jersey closest to New York, the increase was 7.2 percent; for Fairfield County, Conn., it was 10.5 percent.
And as demand goes, so goes price. Throughout the three-state metropolitan region, according to the National Association of Realtors, median prices rose 5.7 percent, from $177,900 in 1997 to $188,100 last year. Around New York's City's suburban arc, price increases ranged from 3.4 percent for northern New Jersey ($199,300 in 1997 and $206,100 last year) to 24 percent in Westchester ($293,400 in 1997 and $363,900 last year).
Tracking real estate trends by the numbers defies absolute precision. Although single-family house sales are reported by local realty boards, not all real estate agents are members of the boards and not all sales are made through agents, so not all sales in a given area are recorded. At the same time, while one board may use median prices -- meaning half the sales are above that figure and half below -- others calculate an average. Still, the numbers serve as barometers of market patterns, especially when they all point in the same direction.
Last year's trend, if that term suffices, is borne out by the findings of the Case Shiller Weiss repeat-sale survey. Of the 577 ZIP-code areas in 14 suburban counties, according to the survey, as well as in the 130 ZIP-code areas in Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Staten Island (the survey does not include Manhattan), every one experienced price appreciation. In 1997, by comparison, 56 ZIP-code areas saw prices drop, and the year before that the number was 117.
"The fundamentals are as good as ever," Dr. Hughes of Rutgers said.
On March 1, the nation's economic expansion entered its 96th month, or eighth year. In November, it surpassed the longest peacetime expansion of 92 months, which occurred from 1982 to 1990. The nation is now 10 months shy of matching the all-time record of 106 months, from 1961 to 1969.
"Over the past several years of this expansion," Dr. Hughes said, "the new information-age economy has finally started generating a lot of jobs, and labor shortages have appeared."
In February, said John L. Weiting, the regional commissioner of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, the nation's unemployment rate stood at 4.4 percent, matching its lowest levels in three decades.
In the 31-county area that the bureau designates as the New York region, 173,000 jobs were created in 1998, Mr. Weiting said, reaching 8.1 million. And while those jobs represented a "bit of a cooling off" from the 203,000 jobs created in 1997, he said, "the year still came in as the second best for the decade" -- and was part of the region's continuing rebound from the moribund days of the early 90's when information-age jobs were still aborning and the dreaded economic watchword was downsizing.
FURTHER fueling the housing market, demographers point out, is the fact that the peak year for the baby boom was 1957, when there were 4.5 million births nationwide; so more baby boomers than ever are now 42 years old. "Never before have we had such a concentration of individuals in their peak income-earning years," Dr. Hughes said. Twenty years ago, when the first boomers entered the market, they were at the lower rungs of the house-buying ladder. "Today, their house-purchasing power is immense," Dr. Hughes said, "so the trade-up market is the foundation for the demand."
The demand has been propelled by low mortgage rates.
"Certainly the big story in the last 12 months," said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage statistics company in Butler, N.J., "is that mortgage rates touched 31-year lows and climbed back only to 20-odd-year lows." Mortgage rates dropped to 6.68 percent during the week ending Oct. 2 -- a low last hit in 1967. On Wednesday, the rate stood at 7.03 percent.
As Mr. Gumbinger said: "The underlying story has been the unrelenting stability of interest rates. I mean, really, we have seen, almost no significant change, aside from that 31-year low." The range of mortgage rates in 1998, including the 31-year low, has been .6 percent. "That's the most stable year since 1977," Mr. Gumbinger said.
So the buyers came, and spent.
Throughout northern New Jersey, according to the New Jersey Association of Realtors, sales rose 7.2 percent, from 63,100 in 1997 to 67,700 in 1998. The median price rose 3.4 percent, from $199,300 to $206,000.
By way of example, in Bergen and Passaic Counties, the median price rose from $205,400 to $213,500, or 4 percent. Middlesex, Somerset and Hunterdon, taken together, experienced a 4.2 percent increase, $176,700 to $184,200.
"What's spurring it," said Patrick O'Keefe, executive vice president of the New Jersey Builders Association, "is New Jersey's housing deficit." Mr. O'Keefe said that although New Jersey's population continues to grow, housing construction is down 40 percent from its 1980's rate.
"There is also," Mr. O'Keefe said, "a considerable wealth effect in northern New Jersey, particularly on the Gold Coast," the communities along the Hudson River, "which benefits from the dearth of construction in New York City. Therefore, even very expensive units on the Jersey side of the Hudson are in demand."
The profile of northern New Jersey's buyers, Mr. O'Keefe said, includes, particularly, empty-nesters and upwardly mobile young people. "At these prices they must be combining incomes," he said, "but I'm not sure of the marital arrangement; such arrangements have changed since I was young."
As confirmed by the Case Shiller survey, both groups seem willing to pay. The survey is based on a table showing the average price for all single-family homes sold in most ZIP-code areas, year by year (some areas are omitted because of insufficient data). To determine price fluctuations in 1998, for example, the survey took the purchase price of each home sold in each ZIP-code area during the year just ended, compared it to the price the house brought the last time it sold, and then, using the annual index, adjusted the earlier purchase price to what it likely would have been had it sold in 1997. The 1998 sales prices for homes within each ZIP-code area were then compared with the estimated 1997 prices to compute the average change.
For the 318 ZIP-code areas in the 10-county northern New Jersey region, 58 saw prices rise by up to 4 percent, 100 by 4 to 6 percent, 107 by 6 to 8 percent, 46 by 8 to 10 percent, six by 10 to 12 percent and one (in the Monmouth County community of Rumson) by more than 12 percent.
Wedged between northern New Jersey and Westchester, triangle-shaped Rockland County stepped out of the shadows last year. Sales zoomed, the state association of realtors reported, with 2,267 transactions last year representing a whopping 94.8 percent increase over the 1,164 deals in 1997. The median price also jumped, from $203,400 to $235,350, or 15.7 percent.
"Rockland has been a secret for a lot of years," said Karen Glazer, past president of the county board of realtors and co-owner of Glazer Realty in Spring Valley.
The Case Shiller survey does not cover Rockland, due to insufficient data, but Ms. Glazer provided broad price estimates. "One-bedroom condos all over start about $100,000," she said. "Town houses, one- to three-bedrooms, start about $225,000. For the fancier ones in Suffern, Nanuet, top price would be about $300,000." A high ranch around the county, she said, "is going for $250,000, but there's new construction going for $500,000 to $750,000."
Asked about the soaring sales volume, Ms. Glazer said: "You know what it is? Because prices have skyrocketed in Westchester, people have gone farther north, over a bridge -- the Tappan Zee or the George Washington -- to discover reasonably priced homes."
Certainly, Westchester has not suffered.
Officials of the Westchester County Board of Realtors did not respond to several requests for comment, but according to the state realtors association, sales in the county jumped 50.1 percent, from 5,750 in 1997 to 8,628 last year. And the median price rose 24 percent, from $293,400 to $363,900.
The Case Shiller survey showed that of Westchester's 65 ZIP-code areas, six saw prices rise 4 to 6 percent, 20 by 6 to 8 percent, 17 by 8 to 10 percent, seven by 10 to 12 percent and in 15 -- or almost one-quarter of the total -- by at least 12 percent.
In Westchester's neighbor to the east, Fairfield County, according to the Case Shiller survey, nine of the 45 ZIP-code areas saw prices rise by 4 to 6 percent, 16 from 6 to 8 percent, eight between 8 and 10 percent, 11 by 10 to 12 percent and one (in Norwalk) by at least 12 percent.
Vincent Valvo, editor of The Commercial Record, a business weekly that covers the state, said that in addition to "enjoying the economic beneficence of New York City," most of Fairfield was building on "the continued development of Stamford and suburban areas like Shelton."
According to Commercial Record statistics, sales in Fairfield County increased from 17,743 in 1997 to 19,598 in 1998, or 10.5 percent. The median price rose 3.9 percent, from $203,500 to $211,500.
WITHIN Fairfield County, even long-struggling Bridgeport saw sales increase 14.2 percent, from 1,769 to 2,021, while the median price rose 12.1 percent, from $74,500 to $83,550. In New Canaan, where the 460 sales recorded last year represented a 3.1 percent increase over the 446 sales in 1997, the median price jumped 10.9 percent, from $505,000 to $560,000 last year.
There were good times on Long Island, too, said Joseph Mottola, executive officer of the Long Island Board of Realtors, "because of a confluence of things -- interest rates, mortgage products to fit unique needs, low unemployment."
"You don't hear about downsizing any more," Mr. Mottola said, "you hear about companies unable to fill jobs."
According to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island, there were 8,199 sales in Nassau last year, 4.6 percent more than the 7,835 in 1997. The median price jumped 10.2 percent, from $209,466 to $230,791.
The Case Shiller survey showed that, of the 63 ZIP-code areas in Nassau, 19 saw prices rise 4 to 6 percent, 35 by 6 to 8 percent and nine by between 8 and 10 percent.
Asked to offer a range of median prices across Nassau, Mr. Mottola checked his records and said: "At the less expensive end, we have Levittown: '97 is $146,000 and '98 is $158,000; Baldwin went from $167,000 to $170,000, Glen Cove, $250,000 to $254,000."
In Suffolk, sales rose 7.4 percent last year to 11,244 from 10,470 in 1997, while the median price was up 7.5 percent, from $164,662 to $176,957. And according to Case Shiller Weiss, of Suffolk's 86 ZIP-code areas, one appreciated by up to 4 percent; 24 by 4 to 6 percent, 37 by 6 to 8 percent, 23 by between 8 and 10 percent and one (Wading River) by 10 to 12 percent.
Choosing three communities as examples in Suffolk, Mr. Mottola said: "For Brentwood, the '97 median was $106,700 and '98 was $112,000. Northport, '97 was $262,500 and '98 is $281,000. And in Cold Spring Harbor, '97 was $470,000 and '98 was $522,500."
Barely five months ago, in October, prospects for a booming residential market seemed, at best, imperiled. The so-called Asian economic contagion had begun to infect South America. The Russian economy virtually collapsed. The stock market swooned. And home buyers, particularly high-enders hooked to quarterly reports, headed for the bunkers.
But in some ways the turmoil bolstered the housing market. A world oil glut kept fuel prices and, consequently, inflation down. The flight of capital to the United States kept interest rates down; on top of which the Federal Reserve, in three quick hits, further lowered interest rates and, consequently, mortgage rates. The stock market roared back. And all of that meshed with the propitious demographics of house buying.
But is it sustainable?
With a realtor's institutional optimism, Dr. Flick, the economist for the National Association of Realtors, believes that even after the baby boomers settle into their trade-up homes and the so-called baby bust begins to siphon off demand, immigrants will plug the gap. "Immigrants are coming in at roughly 1 million a year, and analysts have found that after six years' residency about 70 percent become homeowners," Dr. Flick said.
Then, in about a decade, he said, the millennium generation -- those people currently 18 or 19 years old -- will enter the market. "The boomers were wealthy and fruitful and multiplied," Dr. Flick said. "There are about 80 million boomers and about 70 million millennium kids. So, like that Stephen King novel, 'Children of the Corn,' they will come with their scythes and harvest the housing market of the next, say, two decades."
All of that assumes, said Dr. Hughes of Rutgers, "that the economic stars will stay in alignment."
"We could have a real global economic meltdown that ultimately feeds back to the United States," he said. But at least for now the nation's housing fundamentals remain firm. "The nation and the region have none of the imbalances that caused the great real estate bubble of the 1980's," Dr. Hughes said. "Today's builders are the survivors of the debacle. They are more conservative, so overbuilding and speculative development are nonexistent today."
Rae Rosen, a senior regional economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, is, well, reserved. "Certainly, for the region, we've probably hit the cyclical peak in terms of job growth, income growth and housing activity," she said.
Ms. Rosen wonders if the boom can last: "It will be difficult to sustain the '98 growth rate in '99. It will still be good, it just won't be great."
For Dr. Hughes, the nation's economy and housing performance in 1998 constituted a "go-figure" market. "We were an oasis of prosperity in a turbulent economic world -- go figure."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map/Charts: "Changes in Housing Prices Around the Region" -- The map shows changes in the prices of single-family houses sold in 1998 compared with the previous year, organized by ZIP code. All of Rockland County and a few ZIP code areas in other counties are not included because insufficient data were available to the company that prepared the analysis. (Source: Case Shiller Weiss)(pg. 1); "Price Change of Single-Family Homes, by ZIP Code" -- Changes in prices of typical single-family houses sold in 1998 compared with the previous year , by ZIP code. A few ZIP codes are not included because of insufficient data. (Source: Case Shiller Weiss)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;CENSUS BUREAU NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (51%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;CENSUS BUREAU RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); ROCKLAND COUNTY (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS REAL ESTATE (94%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (88%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); CENSUS (71%); CITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); 

PERSON: ;HEVESI, DENNIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



429 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 14; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
A New Stage Where There's Always a Doctor in the House

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
WHEN Gabor Barabas, 19 years old and newly married, was a pre-med student at the University of Cincinnati in 1968, his 18-year-old wife, SuzAnne, who had taken acting classes with Lee Strasberg, had to do something to "maintain my sanity," as she put it.
Some people who are crazy for acting put on a show. With the help of her husband, Ms. Barabas put together a whole theater. "I owed her something, and this was payback time," Dr. Barabas explained. And that's how the Cincinnati Repertory Company was born. For startup money, the couple had $50. "But we begged," Dr. Barabas said. "For fabrics, for lights, for volunteers." 
 That was just entry level for the executive producer (Dr. Barabas) and the artistic director (Ms. Barabas) of the New Jersey Repertory Company, the state's newest Equity playhouse, which opened in Long Branch this month.
In Cincinnati, where Dr. Barabas was studying pediatrics and neurology for children, it followed that the couple would augment a community-type theater with a children's theater.
For his residency, Dr. Barabas moved to Haverford, Pa., and another new theater company came with the territory: the American Repertory Theater of Philadelphia in Bryn Mawr (1974 to 1979). In Cincinnati, they had played it safe for adults ("Cabaret," "The Fantasticks") and for children ("Winnie the Pooh," "Robin Hood"). In Bryn Mawr, they "blew it all" on "The Stronger" and "The Maids." And so Jones and Schmidt, Kander and Ebb, and peanut butter sandwiches paved the way for Strindberg and Genet. Ms. Barabas went on directing and acted in other theaters nearby.
"Medicine and theater became the rhythm of my life," Dr. Barabas said. "They complement each other in some strange way."
It's been a long-running complement, spanning the 31 years of his marriage. In 1979, Dr. Barabas became the head of pediatric neurology at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey in New Brunswick. For 15 years, he has practiced pediatric neurology at Monmouth Medical Center with his brother, Ronald. He also works with disabled children at the Matheny School and Hospital in Peapack, where Ms. Barabas is directing an arts program.
The couple, who have lived in in West Long Branch since 1983 and in Hillsborough for six years before that, wrote a book (a history of the radio and television show "Gunsmoke," a three-year project). They wrote a play (produced Off Broadway in 1997) and a screenplay. Dr. Barabas wrote the libretto and the lyrics for two musicals, and he went on writing poetry. ("Russian Chronicles" is the title of his collection, published by Gray Falcon Press.) "I've been writing poetry since I was 6," said Dr. Barabas, who was born in Budapest. "It is the most appreciated art form in Hungary."
But the rhythm of their lives was missing an essential beat. No more. New Jersey Rep is here, and at last their lives are complete again.
The couple estimate that they were looking for the right space for three years, first in Asbury Park, then in Red Bank. In Long Branch, they found not only a welcoming place but also an irresistible offer: a three-story, 9,000-square-foot building that "found us," Dr. Barabas says.
David and Margaret Lumia, owners of a 100-year-old medical equipment business, were looking to donate the building to a nonprofit group. "Yes, they gave it to us," Dr. Barabas said. Estimated value: $325,000. Estimated restoration costs: $650,000. That includes a conversion of the current space (capacity: 62) to a 99-seat theater, and the creation of two additional performance spaces, as well as an Art Deco facade.
The company's mission statement refers to the theater as a catalyst for the economic rejuvenation of Long Branch that would "create jobs in a depressed area."
"I would drive through Long Branch to my practice and think about how we could have a social impact on this community," Dr. Barabas said. "In a town as ethnically diverse as Long Branch, with its little shops and bodegas and small-town charm, there is a need for a theater that speaks to everyone. Here we know the mayor and the fire marshal and the police chief, and everyone knows us. And here, people won't go to New York to see theater. Now, they have it in their backyard."
In its preparatory stage, the company held 18 readings of new plays, chosen from 1,000 submitted last year. "The main-stage program will develop and produce approximately six plays or musicals per year," the mission statement says. Kim Hunter and Bob Emmett have performed in two benefit readings and are expected to return in July for "On Golden Pond."
Eighty professional actors are members of the company. It is hardly necessary to add that the couple, who have a son working in real estate in New York City and a daughter who teaches high school in Old Bridge, envision a children's theater.
The company's first play, "Ends," by David Alex, a high school teacher in Chicago, concerns a 30-year-old black man in 1967 living in isolation in the woods since he was 12. Then a white Vietnam veteran barges in. "It is not a play about race relations, but about two characters betrayed by their country," Dr. Barabas said.
The season's second play, tentatively titled "A World I Never Made," by Bryan Williams, is about an Irish policeman and his sister-in-law, who is secretly in love with him. The three-character play, which also involves a drug dealer, has the "line of a modern Greek tragedy," Dr. Barabas said. It is to run from April 13 through May 2.
"North Fork," by Mark Dunn, scheduled for May 18 to June 6, is a seven-character comedy set in Texas. In September, the Barabases' own Holocaust play, "Find Me a Voice," produced Off Broadway in 1997, is scheduled. It is informed by Dr. Barabas's family stories: he escaped from Hungary when he was 7 with his parents, both survivors of Auschwitz. The play is about "the moral lessons not learned, about how people treat one another," he said.
One afternoon before opening night, Meryl Harris, a member of the acting company, was working the phones, and Ms. Barabas was vacuuming. "In a new company, everybody does everything," Ms. Harris said. "We're trying to prove that New Jersey is a part of America, not a suburb of New York."
 
ENDS
New Jersey Repertory Company
179 Broadway, Long Branch
Through next Sunday. Performances: today and next Sunday at 2 and 7 P.M.; Thursday and Friday at 8 P.M.; Saturday at 2 and 8 P.M.
(732) 229-3166
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gabor and SuzAnne Barabas, far left, the founders of the New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch. Its first production, "Ends," features Johnny Kitt, left, and Philip F. Lynch. The theater building, which formerly housed a medical equipment business, is scheduled for a $650,000 Art Deco makeover.
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY REPERTORY COMPANY UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (63%); UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY REPERTORY COMPANY UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES THEATER (94%); THEATER COMPANIES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (87%); PEDIATRICS (87%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); POETRY (67%); WRITERS (62%); DENTISTRY (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: BARABAS, GABOR (DR); BARABAS, SUZANNE; KLEIN, ALVIN LEE STRASBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



430 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Unemployment Rate Drops Below National Level

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
New Jersey's unemployment rate dipped below the national rate in February, the Federal Department of Labor reported last week. The state rate was 4.1 percent, down from 4.4 percent in January, matching the lowest monthly rate the state has seen since July 1989.
The national unemployment rate for February edged up slightly to 4.4 percent. Governor Whitman had long said that getting the state unemployment rate below the nation's was one of her goals. 
 The state had appeared to dip below the national rate in October, but when the state numbers were amended a month later, both rates were at 4.6 percent. New Jersey employers increased their payrolls by 9,300 workers in February, reversing a one-month jobs loss recorded in January. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (90%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



431 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 8; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Horowitz Gift

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
Wanda Toscanini Horowitz -- daughter of the conductor Arturo Toscanini and widow of the pianist Vladimir Horowitz -- has left a five-story Manhattan town house on the Upper East Side to Guiding Eyes for the Blind in Yorktown Heights.
The Horowitz home is now on the market for $4.2 million, and the proceeds will be used to establish a graduate assistance fund to help blind people care for their Seeing Eye dogs. Mrs. Horowitz died at 90 in August of last year. 
 The town house is the largest single gift in the 45-year history of Guiding Eyes for the Blind, said William D. Badger, the nonprofit organization's president and chief executive officer.
The organization breeds and trains guide dogs and trains blind people to handle them. But because 70 percent of the blind population is unemployed, the trust will provide up to $300 a year for those who need help feeding and caring for their dogs.
The organization, which spends about $25,000 to train a single team of a human and a guide dog and has an $8 million yearly budget, depends on private contributions, Mr. Badger said.
Mrs. Horowitz had been a benefactor of the organization, but the large gift at her death came as an "incredible surprise," Mr. Badger said. "We had no idea we were in her will." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GUIDING EYES FOR THE BLIND GUIDING EYES FOR THE BLIND (93%); GUIDING EYES FOR THE BLIND (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUIDING EYES FOR THE BLIND GUIDING EYES FOR THE BLIND (93%); GUIDING EYES FOR THE BLIND (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BLINDNESS; WILLS AND ESTATES; SEEING-EYE DOGS; DOGS DOGS (92%); BLINDNESS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MAJOR GIFTS (76%); BUDGETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WILLS (65%); 

PERSON: HOROWITZ, WANDA TOSCANINI; BRENNER, ELSA VLADIMIR HOROWITZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



432 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2449 words

HEADLINE: In a Gong Show for Start-Ups,The Best Business Plan Wins

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI 

DATELINE: NORWALK Conn.

 BODY:
SOMEWHERE outside the surreal economic world where 23-year-old entrepreneurs become $25 million executives lies the economy of everybody else, where smart people with good ideas struggle for years and then are never heard from again.
At the junction of those worlds lies the prospect of good television. 
"Money Hunt," a public television program produced in Connecticut, has figured that out. By aiming a camera at people who by their very nature can talk endlessly about their ideas and then pitting them against each other, the producers have created 30 minutes of sometimes corny, yet compelling, television. The program is now broadcast in most major markets around the country (55 stations in all).
The format is simple. Two entrepreneurs pitch their businesses to the show's two hosts and a guest executive -- someone like Guy Kawasaki, a longtime software executive at Apple Computer, or Brian Maxwell, the founder of Powerbar, a maker of food bars marketed to athletes, who started a $100 million company in his kitchen. The entrepreneurs are grilled on their business plans, and then the guest executive picks a winner. The prize is an on-air presentation of the executive's business card, handed over as if it were a gold cup, and a promise of an hour of his or her time whenever the winner wants to ask for advice.
"I'm going to wait until I have some crucial question," said Cora G. Yang, of IQ Foods, a company in Downers Grove, Ill., moments after winning her match at a recent taping. (Ms. Yang, whose company makes V. G. Burger vegetarian burgers, defeated Debra Root of Mrs. Malibu Gourmet Natural Foods, a Malibu, Calif., maker of low-fat peanut butter.) "It's like having a fairy godmother," Ms. Yang said. "I'm not going to squander it."
"Money Hunt" is riding the explosion of entrepreneurship in the American economy. For the 26 guest slots in its new season, the program received about 1,000 applications on its Internet site (www.moneyhunt.com). Its producers say they are negotiating agreements that would allow local versions of "Money Hunt" to be made in Japan, Europe and the Middle East. All this for a program that had a quiet start.
"Money Hunt" first appeared on a public access cable channel in Connecticut in 1996 and moved to public television a year later. But even though it now has major sponsors like Pricewaterhousecoopers and Yahoo Finance, "Money Hunt" still has a "Wayne's World" feel to it.
The program was created by Cliff Ennico, a lawyer who once worked on Wall Street, and Miles Spencer, an investment banker, friends who live near each other in Fairfield County, Conn.; the headquarters are in an office attached to Mr. Spencer's home. The nautical-themed set was designed by Mr. Spencer's wife; his mother, a former soap opera extra, sometimes operates a camera. And in keeping with the entrepreneurial theme, Mr. Spencer's dog is named Netscape.
The men in charge made themselves the program's hosts, but it doesn't take long to observe that television is their second language. They are often awkward, and their one-liners seem forced. In acknowledgment of their lack of TV experience, they have hired a coach to help develop their on-air personalities. Mr. Ennico, 45, who looks like a college English professor, is the funny one. Mr. Spencer, 35, with all the smoothness and confidence of the guy who sold you your Mercedes, is the serious one.
"This is not Louis Rukeyser," said Wai Wah Chin, an adviser to the program and a senior vice president of Charterhouse, an investment firm in Manhattan. "In the early stages they were thinking of doing something with a gong, but I think they were joking."
Yet the attraction of "Money Hunt" has nothing to do with its creators' personalities; it comes in those intense few minutes when they are peppering an entrepreneur with questions. It is obvious that the hosts have done their homework, and even though they are smiling, they can be merciless.
To a clothing designer: "Your plan calls for $70 million in sales in 2002. Isn't that a little aggressive?" and "How do you control quality if so much of your production is sourced out?"
To an executive of an Internet company: "You appear to have a significant reliance on service revenue versus licensing fees. Do you see that as a potential inhibitor to the growth of the company?"
And to the founder of another Internet company: "What's your competition on the Internet?" After an uncomfortable silence and the answer that there were about 2,000 similar sites, Mr. Spencer said of the man's concept, "I'm not really buying any of it."
 
Backstage, Nonstop Promotion
Many of the guests seem to enjoy the confrontation, saying it is similar to making a presentation to venture capitalists, although it's over much faster. They often parry the questions with answers that once again explain how great their ideas are.
During a week when "Money Hunt" is being taped, entrepreneurs come in from all over the country, and because three shows are usually taped at a time, there are six entrepreneurs going in and out of the studio here all day. These people don't just nod hello to one another. They gather in the greenroom and talk about their businesses, bragging about their products and handing out brochures like grandparents passing around pictures of their grandchildren.
"You want people to catch your fervor," explained Allen Miller, who was appearing on the program and is the founder of Corporate Carrier Networks, an Irvine, Calif., company that sells back-office software to telecommunications companies.
When the guest executive arrives, it's as if Bill Gates had walked into the room, because here is someone who was once where they are and is now where they so desperately want to be. Forget about a vague prospect of an hour of his time later; here's the guy now.
In a room full of entrepreneurs, nobody's shy. Ms. Yang and her husband, Mark Barnekow, the chief executive of their natural foods company, talked to Mr. Maxwell of Powerbar about how to instill the entrepreneurial spirit in employees. The three of them shared stories of developing their products in the kitchen.
"We would never get the opportunity to sit with Brian like this," Ms. Yang said. "It's worth its weight in gold."
Ms. Root, who had whispered, "Don't worry, I'm going to hit him up," shortly after Mr. Maxwell arrived, leaned forward in her seat and told him why her peanut butter would be wonderful in a Powerbar. He listened politely.
Mr. Maxwell shrugged off the attention, saying he was happy to offer advice.
"I was on the other side of the table 12 years ago," he explained.
Tom Scott, a co-founder of Nantucket Nectars and another of the new season's guest executives, did not mind being pounced on, either.
"That's how I am when there are people who can be helpful to me," acknowledged Mr. Scott, whose venture turned a fruit drink recipe into a multimillion-dollar company. "I don't have any incredible insights. I've just been through the battle."
The show is almost an extension of the action in the greenroom. It moves fast, and sometimes everybody tries to talk at once. The questions and answers come so quickly that the guest executive, whom the show calls a mentor, sometimes has to struggle to get in a comment.
"As soon as we started rolling, I saw that I would have to dive in," Mr. Maxwell said of the program on which he appeared. "There weren't any gaps. It made for pretty good television."
After both entrepreneurs have been grilled and have stepped off camera, but are still well within earshot, the hosts and mentor discuss the companies as Siskel and Ebert used to discuss movies: agreeing, disagreeing, sometimes rolling their eyes at each other.
But instead of offering thumbs up or thumbs down, Mr. Ennico and Mr. Spencer defer to the mentor for the verdict. Mr. Maxwell picked Ms. Yang. Mr. Scott, in his guest appearance, chose Chris Lohring of Tremont Brewery in Boston, saying he felt he could help Tremont more, even though the company it was up against, the on-line Kosher Grocer Inc. of Brooklyn, had more short-term potential.
Deborah Alexander, co-founder of Kosher Grocer, said later that she didn't think Mr. Scott understood her business. Still, she left the show feeling encouraged and has since received E-mail from Mr. Spencer, offering advice. "The two hosts favored my business plan, but the mentor didn't, which is a very realistic reaction to anybody's business plan," she said.
Larry Cowsert not only didn't win in his recent appearance on the program; he had to sit on the set and explain why his company went bust. Mr. Cowsert had been on the program last season and been beaten by an electricity reseller. Now the hosts had invited him back for a bit of show and tell, cautioning other entrepreneurs on what to avoid. ("He was in a train wreck," Mr. Spencer confided before the taping.)
Mr. Cowsert's company, Newstar Collaborative Technologies in St. Louis, had developed teleconferencing software and was doing pretty well until Microsoft and Netscape Communications got into the business. Now Mr. Cowsert is, well, doing something else, but he said he was happy to go over some dos and don'ts.
"You can always tell the pioneers by the arrows in their backs," he said.
Mr. Ennico said people have gone on the show with some unusual ideas. He remembers a man who wanted to set up an Internet site where people could mix and match existing music to make customized compact disks.
"It sounded great; he really had his technology down," Mr. Ennico said. "There was one problem. He didn't have a deal with the major record companies, and he couldn't understand why they wouldn't be interested. Our mentor had to explain, in no uncertain terms, why they wouldn't be."
 
Battling for a Special Audience
The entrepreneurs say they hope their appearance on the program will attract investors, but that doesn't seem to happen often. CMS Technologies of Livonia, Mich., which provides tracking and security systems for computer networks, said that after the appearance of one of its executives, an order was placed by a Princeton University official who had been watching the program, but no investors called.
Investors did contact Doug Monahan, founder of Sunset Direct, a computer sales and marketing company in Austin, Tex., but he turned them down. He did, however, hire Pricewaterhousecoopers as his accountant after the show.
Lucinda Duncalfe, chief executive of the Destiny Software Corporation, a Conshohocken, Pa., company that creates Internet systems for the financial services industry, said she heard from only a few individual investors.
"Venture capitalists don't look at TV for deal flow," she said.
Patrick Petersen of Rhino Naturals, a company in Los Angeles that makes liquid dietary supplements, said he got a call from an old school friend after appearing on the program.
"We've met with a dozen investors since we taped the show, and I've asked if any of them saw it, and they all said no," Mr. Petersen said. "So I don't know who's watching it except my high school friends."
Fred Haney, who is on the advisory board of a group in California that invests in nascent companies, said when asked about the program: "I never heard of it." One executive at a venture capital firm in the San Francisco Bay area, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he had seen "Money Hunt" but dismissed it as an infomercial.
"Maybe you're going to come across an insomniac investor who's up at one in the morning, but you're not going to attract important investors," he said, referring to the program's midnight Sunday time slot on KQED, a public television station in San Francisco. The program is seen in the New York area on WLIW, Channel 21, at 12:30 P.M. Sundays.
Tina Bachemin, the program publicist for KQED, said that about 14,000 households tune into the program on her station, although many may be taping it. The main audience, she figures, is other entrepreneurs.
"That's pretty good for midnight," she said of the audience. "The programmers think it's because the Bay Area is such an entrepreneurial area. They want to see what other entrepreneurs are doing."
Tom O'Malia, director of the Greif Entrepreneurship Center at the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California, said he had seen the program and felt that it provided a valuable service by spotlighting entrepreneurship. But he said the focus on money disturbed him. As a prerequisite for starting a business, he said, money is overrated, and many entrepreneurs fall into the trap of handing over too much of their businesses to get it.
"We all read about the heroes that made it, but many try to go from the minor leagues right to the major leagues," Mr. O'Malia said. "They go right into the money business instead of being entrepreneurs. Of all the myths of entrepreneurship, perhaps the greatest is that you need a lot of money to start a company. You don't. I mean, Apple started with $1,600."
 
A Show That Wants to Grow
"Money Hunt," of course, is all about money, and the show is itself an entrepreneurial enterprise. As one mentor said moments after a taping finished, "Someone should do a "Money Hunt" on 'Money Hunt.' "
Mr. Spencer certainly has plans to expand the television franchise.
"I will be a puddle of a man if I don't end up with commercial distribution of this enterprise," he said, suggesting that "Money Hunt" could be shown on the Fox network before football, on CNBC on the weekends or on CNN. "We're a little public TV show now, but that's just where we'll be from."
Moreover, he sees potential beyond television. The two hosts have written a book about entrepreneurs, still untitled, for Harper Collins; it is due out in the fall. Mr. Spencer also would like to find a way that he and Mr. Ennico might profit from one of the program's most valuable assets: the information on all those applications from entrepreneurs that is sitting in their computers.
"These are some of the fastest-growing companies in the United States," he said. "It's a heck of a data base, and the most attractive option is assigning the deals to pools of capital."
And even though many entrepreneurs report little response from potential investors to their appearances on the show, Mr. Spencer said he was already getting calls from investors about some of his guests and was using his investment banking skills to match the two sides.
"I skim the cream," he said. "Last year I generated six figures in fees. I'm very opportunistic, but there's always another bus coming in two minutes. Right now, I have buses lined up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The entrepreneurs who are contestants on "Money Hunt" answer barrages of questions as they vie for a chance at free advice from executives of well-known businesses. Debra Root, of Mrs. Malibu Gourmet Natural Foods, emphasized a point as Miles Spencer, one of the hosts, listened at right. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); On the "Money Hunt" set, Don Wisneski helped Deborah Alexander of Kosher Grocer Inc. in Brooklyn with a microphone. At the taping, Ms. Alexander lost out to a Boston brewer, but she said she left feeling encouraged. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Back on the job, she filled orders with the help of Deborah Roche, a basket designer, at Baskets of Distinction in Teaneck, N.J. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 14); On public television's "Money Hunt," hosts and executives grill entrepreneurs about their ventures. Margot Lee, right, and Don Wisniewski of the program's staff prepared Cora G. Yang of IQ Foods for her appearance. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Finding 'Money Hunt'
These are some TV stations that broadcast Money Hunt in markets around the country. Broadcast times vary; check local listings.
 

City	Station	Channel	New York	WLIW	21	Los Angeles	KOCE	50	Chicago	WYCC	20	Philadelphia	WHYY	12	San Francisco	KQED	9	Dallas	KERA	13	Atlanta*	GPTV	--	Miami-Fort Lauderdale	WXEL	42	Minneapolis-St. Paul	KTCI	17	Denver	KBDI	12	Indianapolis	WTBU	69	San Antonio	KLRN	9	Pullman, Wash.	KWSU	10	Columbia, S.C.*	SCETV	--	
 
*A network of stations.
 
(Source: Money Hunt)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MONEY HUNT (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (72%); INDIANA, USA (64%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (72%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (64%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (64%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (72%); INDIANA, USA (64%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (72%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (64%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (64%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); MEAT FREE DIETS (67%); 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES MILES SPENCER (81%); CORA G YANG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



433 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Behind the Labor Peace at Ford

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich.

 BODY:
When the General Motors Corporation was paralyzed by a 54-day strike last summer, several Wall Street analysts offered the same solution: G.M.'s leaders should go to the home of Peter J. Pestillo, the longtime labor czar of the Ford Motor Company, and offer him any sum of money, no matter how large, to fix their problems.
G.M. never took this unsolicited advice, and the strike cost it $2 billion in after-tax profits. But Wall Street's perspective highlighted the reputation of Mr. Pestillo, one of the most influential yet least known executives in corporate America. 
 For nearly two decades, he has set labor policy for Ford and indirectly for the entire auto industry; by extension, he has influenced wages and costs across a wide range of industries. By encouraging factory managers to work closely with workers and union leaders, he has helped bring Ford's quality close to Japanese levels. More recently, Mr. Pestillo has quietly come to dominate auto industry lobbying, playing a role in issues from air pollution to fuel economy.
Perhaps most important, Ford has not had a single strike in the United States since 1986. By comparison, G.M.'s strike-related losses in the last three years approach the Microsoft Corporation's entire sales and profits last year.
For all his power, Mr. Pestillo, who will turn 61 on Monday, has worked almost entirely behind the scenes. Now he is being dragged into the limelight. An executive vice president for years, he became Ford's vice chairman and chief of staff at the beginning of this year when a longtime ally, William C. Ford Jr., became Ford's chairman. In January, Mr. Pestillo also became the chairman of the auto industry's new lobbying arm, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which has replaced the defunct American Automobile Manufacturers Association.
IN coming months, Mr. Pestillo may draw yet more attention. The United Automobile Workers' three-year labor contracts with Ford, G.M. and DaimlerChrysler A.G. will expire in September. The U.A.W.'s triennial convention to draw up bargaining positions will open next Sunday, the start of the negotiation process. Major issues will probably include medical coverage, wage increases and whether auto-parts workers will continue to earn as much as assembly workers.
In an interview, Mr. Pestillo said that he believed his relative anonymity had helped him, particularly in his many talks with the U.A.W. "To the extent you're less public, you can be more effective in private," he said.
Most auto company labor negotiators are former factory managers with M.B.A.'s, but Mr. Pestillo has a different background. The son of a union machinist, he grew up in Plainville, Conn., and worked his first summer after high school at a ball bearing company, where he was a dues-paying member of the U.A.W.
After graduating from Fairfield University, he worked his way through Georgetown University's law school in Washington by holding a series of Government jobs, including one as a Capitol policeman. The many hours of guarding Congress coincided with his course in labor law and contributed to a lifelong fascination with politics, both at the national level and within unions.
After stints at General Electric and B. F. Goodrich, Mr. Pestillo came to Ford in 1980, and he has been running its labor policy ever since. He has worked to transform the way Ford factories are run, transferring responsibility to assembly line workers.
He has also forced out factory managers who could not get along with workers or the union. "In the old days, they were happy to have loads of union grievances and disciplinary actions to prove how tough they were," Mr. Pestillo said. "Now we measure how effective they are." Last year, Harbour and Associates, a manufacturing consulting firm, reported that Ford ran 4 of the nation's 10 most productive car factories and 7 of the 10 most productive light truck factories. (Japanese auto makers operated most of the rest.)
The U.A.W. traditionally negotiates a three-year agreement with one auto maker and then demands that the others accept the same deal. For most of the last 20 years, the union has gone to Ford first because of its cooperative relationship, and Mr. Pestillo has used this opportunity to negotiate deals that have cut Ford's costs but done little to help its rival, G.M.
Auto makers can now pay much lower wages, for instance, to workers in their first three years of employment. Ford has been hiring thousands to build its popular sport utility vehicles, but G.M. has been thinning its ranks through attrition.
Some auto industry leaders dispute how much credit Mr. Pestillo deserves for keeping Ford free of strikes. Richard G. Wagoner Jr., the president of G.M., said Mr. Pestillo had an easy task because Ford closed unneeded factories in the early 1980's and has been expanding since. "I'm not aware of any special magic he has," Mr. Wagoner said.
But that view remains a minority opinion. Indeed, John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, said in a separate interview that Ford seemed to have benefited from Mr. Pestillo's close relationship with the U.A.W. and its current president, Stephen P. Yokich.
Mr. Yokich said that while his union maintained a businesslike relationship with Ford, he considered Mr. Pestillo a friend, someone with whom he enjoyed having a beer, playing golf or simply talking. "That's the best reason we get along," he said. "We both can laugh at each other and enjoy it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter J. Pestillo, vice chairman and chief labor negotiator for the Ford Motor Company, looked under the hood of a Lincoln Navigator at the auto maker's headquarters in Dearborn, Mich. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (67%); DAI (FRA) (63%); DAI (BIT) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (67%); DAIMLER AG (63%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); STRIKES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); PARALYSIS (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (67%); AIR POLLUTION (52%); 

PERSON: PESTILLO, PETER J; BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



434 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
A Growing Market in Hot Technology

BYLINE: By REBECCA FAIRLEY RANEY 

 BODY:
CRIMINALS following the Willie Sutton rule -- go where the money is -- are not knocking over banks, as Sutton did. They are raiding shipments of computers, microchips and cell phones.
The direct losses that technology companies attribute to theft are $250 million a year, according to a new study, and the industry is spending a further $750 million a year on insurance and security measures. 
 The problems of truck hijackings, armed takeovers, burglaries and trucks that mysteriously turn up empty at their destinations have plagued Silicon Valley for years. Police in San Jose, Calif., estimate that in recent years, robbers have hit an electronics company once every five days, said John O'Loughlin, director of security at Sun Microsystems. Such thefts often involve goods worth $100,000 or more, while the typical bank robbery nets only about $2,000, he said.
A number of crimes in the mid-1990's prompted two industry groups, the American Electronics Association and the International Electronics Security Group, to hire the Rand Corporation to perform the study, said to be the first attempt to quantify the problem. Ninety-five companies were surveyed, representing 40 percent of industry sales; they reported 1,700 incidents of theft in a nine-month period in 1997 and 1998. Industrywide estimates were extrapolated from the results.
Losses to distributors, retailers and customers were not measured, but the researchers guessed that they might run up to four times what manufacturers lose, putting the total cost of technology hardware theft as high as $5 billion a year in an industry that shipped about $235 billion of hardware in 1997.
The Rand researchers found that insurance covered only about 25 percent of manufacturers' losses because of high deductibles and widespread self-insurance.
Thefts of computers and components from trucks were by far the most common crimes, usually occurring in transit. Some involved hijackings; in others, goods were replaced with boxes of rocks without the driver knowing. Fewer than 1 in 10 thefts occurred on manufacturers' premises.
Companies that stepped up security spending during the study period saw their losses decline, the researchers found. One useful measure: removing the company logo from trucks. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JAVA (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (56%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP RAND CORP (69%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); AMERICAN ELECTRONIC ASSOCIATION CREDIT UNION (56%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; HIJACKING COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); ROBBERY (90%); HIJACKING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); BURGLARY (79%); BANK ROBBERY (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); SELF INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (71%); RETAILERS (69%); 

PERSON: RANEY, REBECCA FAIRLEY WILLIE SUTTON (81%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



435 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Canada Faces New Pressure To Safeguard Rare Wildlife

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 20

 BODY:
In just one day, a North American grizzly bear can lumber across the border from Montana, where it is protected by law, to the Canadian province of Alberta, where it can be legally hunted and shot.
Similarly, the wetlands and forests where endangered species like the whooping crane and spotted owl live are rigorously protected by Federal laws in the United States. But Canada has no national endangered species law to protect wildlife or its habitats. 
 More than 25 years after the United States passed the Endangered Species Act, wildlife advocates are running out of patience waiting for Canada to enact its own law. Now two American wildlife organizations plan to increase the pressure on Canada by instituting a legal action that raises the threat of trade sanctions on Canada unless an effective law is passed.
"The message we're trying to send to them is 'Wake up, get going and move an endangered species act through the Government,' " said William J. Snape 3d, legal director of Defenders of Wildlife, one of the groups involved. "It's just getting sort of old."
The mechanism that will be used to bring pressure on Canada is the Pelly amendment to the Fisherman's Protective Act of 1967. The filing of a petition under this amendment requires the United States Secretary of the Interior to evaluate another country's efforts to comply with international programs to protect endangered species. If threatened wildlife is being harmed, the Interior Secretary can recommend to the President that trade with that country be suspended.
The amendment was initially passed in 1971 to give some teeth to international salmon fishing agreements. According to a draft of the petition that will be brought by Defenders of Wildlife and the Northwest Ecosystem Alliance, a coalition of wildlife groups, Canada's failure to pass its own endangered species law violates a 1942 convention to protect wildlife and nature in the Western Hemisphere.
But more immediately, the groups argue that Canada's inaction is hurting the United States' own effort at wildlife preservation.
"Canada's failure to protect such species," as the grizzly and whooping crane, the draft petition notes, "not only undermines the millions of dollars spent by the U.S. Government on endangered species protection and recovery programs but constitutes a de facto subsidy to Canadian landowners and enterprises which are not required to bear the costs of mitigating the harm caused to endangered species."
While the Pelly amendment makes trade sanctions possible, the likelihood of the United States acting against so important a trading partner as Canada is considered remote.
"The odds of trade sanctions actually happening as a result of this petition are 30 to 40 percent," said Mr. Snape. "But this 30 to 40 percent is precisely enough leverage to kick the Government in the pants."
Mr. Snape said the petition will be filed "imminently."
Canada's environmental ministry has been trying to get an endangered species law since at least 1995 and officials say they will not be bullied by any action from across the border.
"To us, all this represents or is indicative of is concern by a number of environmental groups that we're not doing enough in Canada," said Steven G. Curtis, associate director general of the Canadian Wildlife Service, a branch of the federal Ministry of the Environment.
Tensions between Ottawa and the provinces over who has responsibility for species that cross provincial or international boundaries has been at the heart of the delays. Mr. Curtis said the approach being considered in Ottawa now relies not on imposed federal minimum standards but rather programs that all Canadian provinces and territories agree on.
Canadian environmental groups criticized earlier approaches that left most habitat protection to the provinces. In one instance in British Columbia, biologists found a rare concentration of nesting sites for an endangered bird called the marbled murrelet in an old growth forest that was being clear cut. The province could only get the logging company to spare two lone yellow cedars with nests, but without the buffer of other trees, the ancient giants soon toppled.
Mr. Curtis said the federal Government is now considering a stewardship program that would offer financial incentives and, in some cases, compensation to landowners who agree to protect wildlife habitat.
A new endangered species bill could be introduced before Parliament breaks for summer recess, said Mr. Curtis.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN WILDLIFE SERVICE (86%); DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (55%); DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (55%); DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ANIMALS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (95%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BIRDS (89%); PETITIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FISHES (77%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (77%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (76%); FISHERIES (76%); WETLANDS (73%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



436 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Two Different Tyrants, Very Much the Same

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE 

 BODY:
BACK in the West's halcyon days, spring 1991, when Saddam Hussein had just been vanquished in the gulf war and Eastern Europe had apparently jettisoned Communism for good, few Americans had even heard of the Serbian leader, Slobodan Milosevic.
Mr. Milosevic was cultivating ethnic hatreds and threatening war, but in a seemingly isolated corner of Europe known to few outsiders and apparently of little concern to Washington. The Iraqi leader, by contrast, had invaded a neighboring country and lobbed missiles at Israel, and was found to have a scary near-ability to launch weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East, an area of undeniable strategic importance. 
 At the end of the first post-cold war decade, however, the challenges posed by the Iraqi and Serbian leaders appear remarkably similar, at least in this: Both have become tactical experts at cornering the world's only superpower, frustrating its diplomatic strategists, tying down its military and periodically daring the United States to use force to get its way. Each has laid bare the lack of a Western strategy to deal with dictators who, simply by continuing in power, further weaken the ability of their peoples to resist.
For years, Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Hussein seem almost to have been playing tag team with the United States and its allies. A look back at the 1990's reveals some startling similarities in the ways they operate, and in the ways the West seems to have missed opportunities to weaken each of them.
Both leaders are skilled autocrats, easily able to exploit the inevitable differences that crop up in the coalitions, alliances or international organizations that have tried to rein them in. When it's convenient, each can count on support from Russia or China. At home, each is adept at manipulating power and at turning foreign embargoes, threats or bombing to his own advantage: Who, after all, would publicly oppose a leader who paints himself as defender of a victimized nation under foreign attack? Despite the occasional seeming defeat inflicted from outside, and the suffering of people in economies squeezed by embargoes and by the control of these leaders and their cliques, neither man seems in danger of being dislodged.
As far back as that spring of 1991, before the old Yugoslavia descended into war, demonstrators in Belgrade picked up on the similarities, chanting "Slobo-Saddam!" to demonize their leader. With the instinct born of the direct experience of repression, they sensed that both men were master players of high-stakes poker, prepared to use violence and even to gamble their very countries to preserve their own power.
IT is a lesson that the West, however, appears to have spent little time understanding: that the key to the survival of Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Hussein has been their intimate acquaintance with the yearnings and frailties of their people (Mr. Milosevic has even won several flawed but not entirely unfair elections).
The Serbian leader has retained power largely by stirring up crisis after crisis, then uniting Serbs behind his alleged defense of their interests. Long-term success is not required for his own survival -- he has, for instance, lost the territories he mobilized Serbs to seize in Croatia and Bosnia -- so long as the attention of his weary people can be channeled elsewhere. Even now, with NATO threatening to bomb Serbia if Mr. Milosevic does not allow the alliance to police his restive province of Kosovo, he appears secure. Indeed, he retains the power to ignite a far bloodier war in Kosovo and beyond, a power that commands the West's attention. He can survive in his self-cast role as his people's champion against the hostile, powerful outside world.
So too Saddam. Mr. Hussein has lost some formal control over Iraq. Foreign inspectors have probed his arsenals. The Central Intelligence Agency has reportedly tried to muster resistance inside Iraq. For more than two months, foreign jets have regularly bombed targets inside the northern and southern reaches of the country.
These regions are home to the Kurdish minority and the Shiite Muslim majority who oppose Mr. Hussein's Sunni Muslim minority, which has traditionally ruled Iraq. Yet Mr. Hussein, whose security apparatus is far larger and more ruthless than that of Mr. Milosevic, also seems in no obvious danger of losing control. He retains large oil reserves, and perhaps even an ability to build weapons of mass destruction.
Mr. Hussein, whose image entirely dominates public life in Iraq, brooks so little opposition that dissent can be openly voiced only abroad. America has been slow to engage the admittedly murky and bitterly divided opposition groups. Belated attempts to do so have yielded a new radio station, Radio Free Iraq, and a $97 million Iraqi Liberation Act that so far has dispensed none of the materiel it pledged to make available to opposition groups. Of the opposition groups targeted to receive support, at least one announced from its Teheran headquarters that it had no interest in Washington's backing.
In Serbia, a number of parties that are now arrayed against Mr. Milosevic sprang up largely as he was assuming power in the late 1980's. He has proven skilled at infiltration and at buying off these rivals. The opposition is now so feckless that even its members say they have little hope. Students or independent media that do challenge Mr. Milosevic are weak and immediately feel a repressive hand if they start to make an impact. They also lack any significant foreign backing.
Individual diplomats and outside groups have tried to support what Warren Zimmermann, the last American Ambassador to Yugoslavia, has called "the other Serbia." But during mass demonstrations against Mr. Milosevic that erupted in the winter of 1996, many Serbian students wondered why the rest of Europe was ignoring their movement. It was, they felt, as if they were being demonized along with their leader. The few foreign envoys who do come to Serbia see Mr. Milosevic and pay any others scant heed.
Critics of American diplomacy say that by ignoring Serbs and Iraqis who oppose Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Hussein the West has missed a chance to advance democracy in the Balkans, where the Serbs traditionally have played a vanguard role, and in the Middle East, where Iraq's middle class was once among the most enlightened and educated.
Instead, unwittingly, Western policy has helped smash that vibrant middle class in both countries. Official media drive home the siege mentality, playing on the threat from outside to squelch dissent. Tough sanctions have fostered rampant corruption, which gnaws ever deeper into the moral fiber of societies weakened by wars the leaders helped to launch.
Emigration has added to the ruin. In both countries, a new merchant class has sprung up, owing its wealth to smuggling. To ply their illicit trade, these people must make at least a tacit pact with their Governments and are thus a crucial source of support for Mr. Hussein and Mr. Milosevic. They help convey an illusion that the two countries are still part of the modern world; despite the United Nations' embargo, almost any consumer wares are available in Baghdad, as they were in Belgrade when it was under sanctions from 1992 to 1995.
In the Iraqi countryside, the Government reportedly gives seed, land or machinery to traditionally respected rural leaders, who in turn help insure obedience. In rural Serbia, the source of most of Mr. Milosevic's votes in elections, the leader and his Socialist Party can use structures inherited from the old League of Communists to exercise similar control.
CAN anything now be done to turn the tide in Serbia, or Iraq? In both countries, hopeful Clinton Administration officials suggest that the demise of Mr. Hussein and Mr. Milosevic is closer than either may believe. If NATO does bomb Serbia, the Yugoslav Army might turn away from Mr. Milosevic. But even if he is then forced to accept NATO's soldiers in Kosovo, he will remain in control of most of Serbia, with all of its new resentments of the West. High-ranking foreign visitors could invest in a different future by visiting Mr. Milosevic's critics, as was routinely done, say, in Moscow under the Soviets.
Neither country will change overnight. One journalist who has lived in Belgrade all her life recently wrote to a friend about a change she had seen in the last decade in how Serbs treat each other. A woman tending flowers in a park had hurled an ax at the journalist's dog, she wrote. Even after Mr. Milosevic goes, she concluded, "we will be left with all those semi-humans" that the recent past has created.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Saddam Hussein's visage is hard to miss outside the Iraqi Society for Photography in Baghdad . . . (Agence France-Presse); . . . and Slobodan Milosevic's portrait stirred Serbs in Macedonia who were protesting against NATO threats. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOSOVO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; IRAQ; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOSOVO (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); BOMBINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); POKER (65%); 

PERSON: SMALE, ALISON; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



437 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
If You Spend a Million, They'll Throw In a Jaguar

BYLINE: By JANE WOLFE 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
WHEN Sara M. Dunham regularly drives the seven hours from her home in Baton Rouge, La., to work on spending about $200,000 a year at the flagship Neiman Marcus store here, her rewards go beyond the clothing, jewelry and furs she buys. As a member of In Circle, the Neiman Marcus frequent-shopper club, she will be treated this year to a free week in Milan with her husband, with first-class flights and hotels. Last year, it was Paris.
But now Mrs. Dunham's loyalty may be tested. Other high-end retailers, especially Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, whose two stores, in Manhattan, are owned by Neiman Marcus, are also trying to lure shoppers like her. The new competition has meant enhanced loyalty programs with more perks like special discounts, trips abroad and exclusive social events inside and outside the stores. 
 The retailers say the programs show how important those shoppers are to them. "Neiman's, Saks, and Bergdorf's all go after the richest 2 percent of the nation's people," says Howard L. Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant. "You're shooting for a class of people who spend $6,000 for a dress. You have to coddle these people constantly because you cannot afford to lose even a few of them as customers."
Which program is best? It depends on whether a shopper wants merchandise discounts or other goodies. The value of the bonuses usually ranges from 1 percent to, at higher levels, 6 percent of the amount spent. Because most programs require use of the retailers' own charge cards -- or special, affiliated cards -- shoppers should also compare their terms and interest rates with those of other credit cards, some of which offer frequent-flier miles or other rewards of their own.
The latest retailer to join the contest is Bergdorf Goodman. Hoping for quick gains, Bergdorf, unlike Neiman and Saks, will allow customers to earn award points on any credit card, although its own offers twice the points.
Saks, meanwhile, is making its biggest splash among the designer-label set with its four-year-old Platinum Events, each more lavish than the last. Last month, 40 Platinum members, who spend at least $10,000 a year, dined with their spouses and friends on leeks with caviar, lobster-filled zucchini blossoms and rack of lamb with gingered eggplant at Chanterelle in Manhattan. In attendance were Philip B. Miller, the chief executive of Saks, and Donna Karan, who told the guests that she would be in the flagship store the next day to help them design their wardrobes.
Both Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus offer their members shopping nights when the stores are closed to everyone but them. They are feted with cocktails and food and have a chance to chat with designers and executives. At Neiman events, there is another bonus: double In Circle points.
Loyalty programs are also offered by chains like Bloomingdale's, a unit of Federated Department Stores; Marshall Field, a unit of Dayton Hudson, and Nordstrom. The plans can provide discounts or gift certificates for users of the stores' charge cards or affiliated Visa cards. But Richard G. Barlow, publisher of the Colloquy newsletter, which tracks frequent-buyer and frequent-traveler programs, says these other plans, which require just $500 or $1,000 of purchases, are not snobbish enough.
"To make the customer feel important, you've got to be exclusive," Mr. Barlow said. "Neiman's realized before anyone else that since so many stores have the same merchandise, it's no longer sufficient to focus on what you sell but rather on who is buying it."
THE retailers disagree over how shoppers want to be rewarded. Members of the Saks First program, who must spend a minimum of $2,000, get points redeemable only at Saks. "We did extensive research that showed our customers really did not want trips," said Sheri Wilson-Gray, marketing vice president.
Still, serious shoppers appreciate things that they can't secure themselves. "Even if you have great wealth," Ms. Wilson-Gray said, "it's not necessarily within your power to call up Donna Karan and say, 'Will you personally help me create my spring wardrobe?' "
Neiman Marcus's In Circle, founded in 1984, gives one point for every dollar spent by its 150,000 members. It was inspired by the American Airlines frequent-flier plan, begun in 1981, shortly after American moved to Dallas. "Since they were in our own backyard, we were watching them very closely," said Billy J. Payton, Neiman's marketing vice president. "We knew that recognizing and rewarding customers based on spending was driving market share in the airline industry, and we were trying to develop the same kind of program."
Like the airlines' frequent-flier programs, the stores' plans encourage the notion that spending in the pursuit of ostensibly free awards is downright thrifty. "My secretary was reading my Neiman's statement and said to me, 'You're just $200 short of getting the award for 3,000 American Airlines points,' " said Nancy O. Lemmon, a civic and social leader here. "So I raced down to Neiman's and spent more than $200 for a sweater and got the points."
Those who spend $100,000 can choose tickets to the Super Bowl or the Kentucky Derby, with first-class airline tickets and hotel rooms. Spend a million and get a Jaguar S-Type, or a one-week annual stay for life (and for the lives of your children) at the Four Seasons Punta Mita resort near Puerto Vallarta on Mexico's west coast, or one million frequent flier points.
At her award level, Mrs. Dunham has missed a trip only one year in the history of In Circle, when she was in a hospital. Neiman sent over a food spread that included its chicken soup.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sara M. Dunham tries on jewelry at Neiman Marcus in Dallas, assisted by Guy Boehmer. She is a member of In Circle, the Neiman Marcus frequent-shopper plan. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Shop Till You Collect"
In their frequent-shopper programs, department stores are showering their big spenders with gifts and benefits. Here is a sampling of the rewards available at various levels of annual purchases.

Neiman Marcus
"In Circle"
($3,000 minimum)
$1,000,000: A Jaguar or one million American Airlines frequent-flier miles.
 
Saks Fifth Avenue
"Saks First"
($2,000 minimum)
$10,000 and up: A merchandise certificate for 6 percent of the amount spent. Special lunches and parties.
 
Bergdorf Goodman
Bergdorf Goodman Rewards
($5,000 minimum)
$250,000 OR $125,000 ON A BERGDORF CARD: A 10-day wine-tasting cruise through Burgundy.

Bloomingdale's
"Rewards Program"
($1,000 minimum)
$2,500 ON BLOOMINGDALE'S VISA: A 1 percent rebate on purchases aside from those at Bloomingdale's.
 
Marshall Field's
"Definite Rewards"
$500 on a Marshall Field's card: A certificate for 15 percent off during any one day of shopping.

Nordstrom
$1,000 on Nordstrom Visa: A $20 merchandise certificate for every $1,000 spent.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS STORES; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; BERGDORF GOODMAN NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (92%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEIMAN MARCUS STORES; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; BERGDORF GOODMAN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING RETAILERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); LOYALTY MARKETING (77%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, JANE MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



438 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: An Activist Shareholder TakesOn The World

BYLINE: By HILARY ROSENBERG; Hilary Rosenberg is the author of "A Traitor to His Class: Robert A. G. Monks and the Battle to Change Corporate America" (John Wiley & Sons, 1999).

 BODY:
ROBERT A. G. MONKS, money manager and shareholder rights proponent, has long been a sort of Lone Ranger of American investing, charging in to exhort companies to change their ways in the name of helping shareholders.
Now, profligate managements abroad are starting to pay heed to Mr. Monks, who is 65. The Lens Fund, the institutional investment vehicle he runs, is being folded into Hermes Pensions Management, a British concern with 40 billion ($65.3 billion) under management that is owned by a giant pension fund, BT Pension Scheme. He will help oversee investing at Hermes Lens International, which will be a holding company for the Lens Fund, soon to be renamed to reflect its new status. 
 After the deal's closing, which is imminent, the Lens fund will have a big-name backer. With new asset contributions from Hermes and extra marketing, the fund's assets under management will likely rise to about $220 million, from $100 million.
In Britain, Hermes Lens International will oversee U.K. Focus, a joint fund of Hermes and Lens which Mr. Monks already helps manage. It has been active since last October and has about 150 million in assets. Mr. Monks said Hermes Lens International would manage a family of funds, with new offerings in Europe and Japan.
Why did Mr. Monks, at an age when others ponder retirement, choose this new effort? Because it is a mission. "What I do is make power accountable," he said.
With its extra resources, the United States fund plans to step up its activities. There is plenty of corporate mismanagement about, Mr. Monks said; he contends that the strong economy has hidden many sins, which will eventually come to light.
One red flag is executive pay levels. Mr. Monks said excessive compensation signals that a company's board is not truly independent of its management.
Mr. Monks's brand of activism amounts to a kind of value investing. Lens buys large positions, typically under 5 percent, in a few underperforming companies and then tries to persuade their managements to make changes that Mr. Monks expects to benefit shareholders. If they won't, he rallies others with proxy fights or takes his arguments to the news media.
Lens's investing style pays. In six years of operation, through Dec. 30, 1998, it returned 25.1 percent a year, on average, compared with 20.5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
Mr. Monks "is the founder of the modern corporate governance movement and certainly its most effective advocate," said Richard Schlefer, the director of corporate governance at T.I.A.A.-C.R.E.F., the giant retirement fund.
Lens now owns shares in six United States companies, and, this month, Mr. Monks started a campaign for a board seat at Juno Lighting, a lighting fixtures manufacturer based in Des Plaines, Ill., in which Lens has a 6.7 percent stake. Lens began buying Juno shares in October 1997, at just over $18.
There are two problems at Juno, Mr. Monks said: Nearly half of its assets are in cash and only one of its five board members is an independent outsider. Juno did not return phone calls last week seeking comment.
In an analysis early last year, Lens stated its belief that Juno stock could rise to $31 a share if it put its cash to work. Juno shares closed on Friday at $20.875.
One successful investment has been Reader's Digest Association. Given its declining profits and lack of independent outside directors, it seemed an ideal stock pick for Lens. Although a pair of charitable foundations control the company as holders of the voting class of shares, Mr. Monks felt that Lens could influence the situation, so the fund started buying shares in December 1997 at just over $23 for each A share.
He has been pleased with the actions of the new chief executive, Thomas O. Ryder, to add independent directors, sell some noncore assets and reduce costs. Mr. Monks had figured the stock was worth $34 a share when he started buying; it is now at $34.875. Lens has taken some profits on the position.
In Britain, the U.K. Focus fund holds eight stocks. One is Mirror Group, a media conglomerate whose chief executive, David Montgomery, recently resigned after U.K. Focus led a campaign seeking his ouster because shareholders had lost confidence in him. The fund started buying Mirror shares in October at about 140 pence ($2.28). They closed on Friday at 204 pence.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Monks's alliance with Hermes Pension Management expands his interests in Britain. He visited Tower Bridge in London. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Investing With a Mission"
Robert A.G. Monks, who manages two institutional funds, views his style as a kind of value investing. Here are three holdings where shareholder pressure is at work. Graphs shows closing stock prices for Reader's Digest, Juno Lighting and Mirror Group, since 1997.
 
Reader's Digest
Friday's close:
$34.875
 
Juno Lighting
Friday's close:
$20.875
 
Mirror Group
Friday's
close:
2.04
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: LENS FUND; HERMES PENSIONS MANAGEMENT; BT PENSION SCHEME HERMES PENSIONS MANAGEMENT LTD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LENS FUND; HERMES PENSIONS MANAGEMENT; BT PENSION SCHEME

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SHAREHOLDERS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, HILARY; MONKS, ROBERT A G

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



439 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
East Harlem Provocateur on the City Payroll

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
"YOU come back in six months," Philip Reed said to me 13 months ago. He was just starting his first year as a member of the City Council. "I might have answers. I will surely have a carpet on the floor."
A practical blue carpet was on the floor when I got back to Mr. Reed's East Harlem office last week, but the boiler was broken. No heat or hot water. 
 Mr. Reed was waiting to hear from the landlord, the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. We kept our jackets on. What about those answers?
"Rudy and I have similar styles," Mr. Reed said, warming up. His expressions and rhythms recall the comic and civil rights activist Dick Gregory. "We are provocative. We don't believe in politics as usual."
I rubbed my cold hands. "But what have you learned while on the city payroll?"
Mr. Reed flashed a smile even more dazzling than his newly shaved head. "I have learned that it is essential to have dialogue, to maintain an intimate, backslapping collegiality, interesting for a gay man, and that if you want to get things done, don't get on this administration's radar screen. Even when you're on the same side."
Because asthma is a major issue in Mr. Reed's district, the Eighth District, which includes chunks of East Harlem, the Upper West Side and the South Bronx, he has been involved with the Health Department, giving out information and medical equipment.
But that doesn't mean, he said, that as a Democrat he can just go chat with commissioners and department doctors. Kenny Scott, his executive assistant, and Delfina Cruz, his constituent liaison, plot elaborate "chance" meetings in hospital cafeterias and street rallies. Mr. Reed "bumps into" bureaucrats. Even his officially sanctioned meetings require an overseer from Mayor Giuliani's staff, he said.
"Sounds like Moscow in the 60's," I said. "Actually, I felt safer thinking my translator was KGB."
Mr. Reed smiled, too cagey to engage in any direct discussion linking the Mayor to a repressive foreign government.
"I have also learned," he said, "just how sophisticated my constituents are. They are willing to give me credit for working hard, even if I don't succeed, because they understand what we're up against. Take the Mayor's plan to cut the arts budget, which will affect El Museo del Barrio, a major cultural institution up here, not to mention a place where latchkey kids go after school.
"Meanwhile, he's dropping $65 million on the Museum of Modern Art. He can talk about economic impact. But we know it's about caring more for tourists than residents, who are not benefiting from this famous renaissance while he is grandstanding to a larger audience. He is setting himself up for higher office. That means looking tough on poor people and black people."
Mr. Reed's smile became chilly. Maybe it was the temperature. "If crime is really down, maybe we should rethink all the anticrime cops on the street. Four times more cops looking for fewer guns can translate into shooting Amadou Diallo."
This has been a busy year for Mr. Reed, who had back surgery in October, turned 50 last month and sponsored 108 pieces of legislation, remarkable for someone whose campaign was dubbed "Dead Man Running." He has been treated for Stage 3 multiple myeloma, a bone marrow cancer now in remission, and has been H.I.V.-positive since 1981.
Mr. Reed has been appointed to the Council's public safety committee, which has police oversight. He got $400,000 of the capital budget to build a bathroom at the ballfield on Second Avenue and 128th Street. In three years, Mr. Reed said, children won't have to urinate along the fence "and people driving by won't think they are animals who don't deserve museums, public schools, gardens and respect from the police."
The Republican Caucus's declaration that black and Latino Council members and their neighborhoods should be grateful for the reduction in crime infuriated Mr. Reed. the other hand, he is amused that Mayor Giuliani gets so much credit for the reduction. Mr. Reed's own name was set in cement on a local playground that was dedicated soon after he took office. He had nothing to do with it.
"Maybe Rudy is truly brilliant," Mr. Reed said, "and he is posturing to start a dialogue that wouldn't otherwise happen. Maybe it's just too much to also want him to stand for something other than himself."
Kenny Scott came in, wearing a windbreaker and a watch cap. He said, "H.P.D. is on the phone."
Mr. Reed jumped to take the call. He said to me: "Come back tomorrow. I might have answers. I will surely have heat."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CITY COUNCILS; MAYORS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); MEDICAL DEVICES (74%); POLITICS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); BUDGETS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); CIVIL RIGHTS (54%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT; REED, PHILIP (COUNCILMAN); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



440 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Market

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of the Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Alexandria, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
DEEP within our psyches, many of us believe that good is inevitably followed by bad. Maybe we've been influenced by predictions like Joseph's in the Book of Genesis, that seven good years in Egypt would be followed by seven so severe that "all the plenty shall be forgotten."
With the Dow Jones industrial average's flirting with 10,000, it is a good time to re-examine this belief. What does history tell us to expect over the next, say, 10 years? Will they be bad years for the market, coming as they do on the heels of 10 fabulous years, when the market has gained 19.1 percent a year, on average? Or is that recent past meaningless? 
 Though they may not realize it, many investors have already answered those questions. Indeed, they assume that the recent past is irrelevant. Many financial planners, as well as economists at life insurance companies and actuaries at retirement plans, project that stocks will produce future gains at their long-term historical average -- between 10 percent and 11 percent a year -- despite the last decade's outsized gains.
Unfortunately, history suggests otherwise, according to the consensus of several finance professors I have consulted. When measured over a several-year horizon -- say, five to eight years -- returns on stocks tend to regress to the mean. That means that after several years in which stocks do better than their long-term average -- as they have in the 1990's -- there is a better-than-even chance that they'll underperform over the subsequent several years.
But by how much will they underperform? Specific predictions are hard to come by because the data are insufficient to make forecasts with much statistical confidence. But two economics professors, John Campbell of Harvard University and Robert Shiller of Yale University, have played out several what-if scenarios, all of which have profoundly bearish conclusions. The findings are even scarier in that they depend on just two seemingly innocuous assumptions.
The first assumption: Stocks will someday trade at their historically average valuations. That means stocks will eventually trade at an average price-to-earnings ratio of 14, in contrast to 31 today. That is unobjectionable, given that stocks have always returned to their historical valuations, even if they take their time in doing so.
The second assumption: Earnings per share at American companies will not grow appreciably faster than the economy. That also seems above reproach. Earnings per share may grow faster than the economy for a year or two, but it's hard to imagine that they can do so indefinitely.
Granted these two assumptions, how bearish should we be? It depends on how long we assume it takes for stocks to return to their historical valuations. If it takes 10 years, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, in inflation-adjusted terms, will end up a third lower than it is today, according to the professors. And if it takes less than 10 years, the index will have to fall even further.
Note that the two professors assume that P/E ratios will return only to their historical average -- around 14. They aren't assuming something far worse: the extremely low ratios seen at bear-market bottoms -- about 6, for example, in December 1974.
Of course, it may take longer than a decade for stocks to return to their average valuations, but that is small consolation. Over the last 130 years, it has never taken more than 20 years for stocks to do so. According to the professors, even if it takes 20 years -- until 2019 -- the S.& P. 500, in inflation-adjusted terms, will nevertheless be 20 percent lower then than it is today.
What has to happen for the professors to be wrong? Stocks must either remain at high P/E levels, or earnings per share must keep growing faster than the economy -- not just for a year or two, but for many years. Those are the twin hopes of investors who believe we've entered a new era, one in which anything is possible. Unfortunately, those believers include investors with a lot to lose: people who have but a few years until retirement, yet confidently keep their money in stocks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Bouncing Multiple"
The trailing price-to-earnings multiple of stocks has bounced around since 1871, but always returns to its historical average. Graph plots multiples as of Jan. 1 each year for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index (and for a predecessor, the Cowles Common Stock index, for years before 1926). (Sources: Standard & Poor's; Robert Shiller, an economics professor at Yale University.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INSURANCE (70%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (53%); 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



441 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
I'm the Fiscal Purist. No, I Am.

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE Federal budget deficit is history, and the strong economy is generating surpluses that could last for decades. But in Washington, pledges of budgetary austerity are emanating from both parties in a way they never did when the outlook was bleak.
Yes, Republicans are still fixated on a big tax cut, and Democrats still tend to want to throw money at problems. But both parties have built their agendas this year around the goals of reducing the national debt and keeping spending in check. 
 There are certainly great economic benefits to be gained from keeping the country's financial house in order and using any windfall wisely. Still, given that Washington's commitment to fiscal discipline was notably absent during the 1980's and early 1990's when it was arguably needed most, it seems fair to wonder whether this bipartisan outbreak of responsibility will prove more than a passing political fad.
Chances are that by the end of the year Congress and President Clinton will have broken the strict spending caps at the heart of the current budget law. As the $20 billion burst of last-minute spending outside the caps last year proved, it's hard to hold the line when faced with pleas for aid to hard-pressed farmers, or pay increases for the military, or more money for Head Start.
Moreover, even with the country as flush as it is, there is little evidence that the two parties will be able to turn their good intentions into agreements on shoring up the twin pillars of the social welfare system: Social Security and Medicare.
Implicit in the whole austerity effort, however transitory, is the broader question of whether it requires a crisis to take tough action or whether, as Mr. Clinton likes to say, the best time to fix the roof is while the sun is shining.
If political positioning were the standard, the answer would be clear. For now at least, Democrats and Republicans alike are determined to portray themselves as not just fiscally pure but purer than the other party.
Mr. Clinton started the bidding by proposing that three-quarters of projected surpluses be set aside, effectively through debt reduction, to deal with the looming problems in Social Security and Medicare.
Republicans countered last week with a plan to stop the longstanding practice by both parties of using Social Security's reserves to pay for spending and tax cuts. Then, in votes in the House and Senate Budget Committees, Democrats tried to up the ante by proposing to bar any tax cuts until the long-range solvency of both Social Security and Medicare has been assured (the Republicans defeated the effort). Finally, Democrats on the Senate Budget Committee voted with Republicans to reject Mr. Clinton's budget proposal because it dipped into Social Security money for a few years to pay for spending programs.
Behind much of the maneuvering is an attempt by each party to define itself for the new politics of prosperity.
Notwithstanding the reality that the deficit exploded on President Ronald Reagan's watch in the 1980's as they cut taxes, pumped up the Pentagon budget and did little to restrain domestic spending, Republicans have long laid claim to being the party of fiscal responsibility. Having seen the Democrats under Mr. Clinton co-opt them on so many issues, Republicans are eager to reassert themselves on this one.
"If we're not recognized as the party that wants to restrain spending and cut taxes, what's the purpose?" said Representative John R. Kasich, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Budget Committee.
For Democrats, the situation is more complicated. On one level, many Democrats, even some liberals, now seem convinced that the nation cannot afford to spend with abandon, and that keeping the Federal budget under control yields big benefits to working families by keeping interest rates, inflation and unemployment down.
But Democrats also believe that using the bulk of anticipated surpluses in a way that helps Social Security and Medicare works for them on both political and policy grounds. If they prevail this year, it will be because Mr. Clinton managed to link the idea of debt repayment to strengthening the two most popular social welfare programs.
FROM the Democratic perspective, the argument is simple: A sweeping tax cut now, before the expected surpluses materialize, risks squandering the best chance to deal with Social Security and Medicare while requiring painful and unjustified cuts in a wide array of popular programs. If they can block Republican tax cuts and in the process erase the tax-and-spend stigma they have been stuck with for years, so much the better.
The professed commitment to austerity within both parties appears to be driven in part by a palpable sense of skepticism among voters -- evident in polls and in meetings between elected officials and constituents -- that the promised surpluses will ever materialize.
"The Clinton Administration and Democrats more generally have discovered that the best route to achieving liberal ends may be conservative means, especially when those ends are defined as preserving the social welfare programs most highly regarded by the citizenry," said Thomas E. Mann, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution. "That approach has the great benefit of matching the priority of the public."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank R. Lautenberg and Pete V. Domenici at a Senate Budget Committee meeting. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY&MEDICARE (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY&MEDICARE (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (79%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



442 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
DangerousSelectivity About Rules of Global Trade

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN peacetime, Washington starts trade wars. First there was the Battle of the Bananas, still being slugged out across the Atlantic. Then came the gleaming edge of steel, a fight that pits the workers of Weirton, W. Va., against their counterparts in Brazil, Russia, Japan, Korea and China. For this week, the White House has scheduled a beef over hormone-treated meat.
Listening to the rhetoric here in recent weeks, it would be easy to conclude that there is a theme to these epic struggles: enforcing the rule of law around the globe. All nations, the White House and Congress proclaim, must learn to live by the trading guidelines established under international treaties. 
 Sometimes this argument has the ring of sincerity about it. At other moments, like some last week on Capitol Hill, it smacks of disingenuousness and even rank political hypocrisy. Usually there's a little of both.
Consider the issue that has turned NATO allies into economic enemies: yellow fruit. The Clinton Administration argues that this only looks like a laughable argument over a product neither grown in America nor picked by American workers.
Yes, they acknowledge somewhat sheepishly, Washington is doing the bidding of Carl H. Lindner, the chairman of Chiquita Brands. Lots of industries complain about their treatment abroad, but Mr. Lindner, a big contributor to Democrats and Republicans alike, has been more skilled than most in getting the political establishment to take up his cause -- no easy task when barely a single American job is at stake.
It turns out that Mr. Lindner has a legitimate complaint. The World Trade Organization has consistently ruled that Europe discriminates against bananas grown in Central America, where Chiquita has long held sway, and in favor of those grown in Caribbean countries that were European colonies not long ago. Europe has openly defied the rulings, tinkering with its banana imports but never solving the problem.
Eventually, the Administration decided to hit Europe where it hurt, slapping 100 percent tariffs on luxury goods, including -- this is where it really gets nasty -- pecorino cheese. You could feel the chill in Zabar's.
President Clinton, who has spent far more time on the banana issue than one might expect of the leader of the free world, says the real issue is the rule of law. "If we're going to have a global trading system and a system for resolving disputes," he said recently, then Europe is going to have to learn to obey W.T.O. decisions. "I think most people in Europe believe we shouldn't have won, but sometimes we lose cases we think we shouldn't have lost," Mr. Clinton said.
He meant to be lecturing the Europeans, but the message hasn't exactly sunk in on Capitol Hill. American lawmakers, like their European counterparts, believe it is vital to obey the rules -- except, of course, when they run counter to American economic interests; then they are an intolerable interference with American sovereignty.
That explains how the House, in an overwhelming 289-141 vote on Wednesday, passed some of the most protectionist legislation in 60 years. It directed the Administration to limit steel imports from other nations by any means necessary -- quotas, tariffs or "voluntary" agreements with other countries. The House bill is unlikely to become law, but it sent a clear message heard around the world.
Most everyone in Congress knows that setting unilateral import limits violates the treaty that established the W.T.O. four years ago -- a treaty the Senate ratified. But the logic that won the day belonged to George Becker, the president of the United Steelworkers of America, who said a series of White House steps to punish countries that "dump" low-cost steel in the American market was not enough.
"Steelworkers and steel communities hold dear the notion that America's trade policies should benefit Americans first," Mr. Becker said. "That may be a novel idea in some quarters, but it was a winning idea today in Congress."
AMERICA FIRST is a thrilling campaign line, but Republicans and Democrats alike recognize the likely reaction: counter-retaliation, in equal disregard of the W.T.O.'s rules. It is one of the rare issues on which Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and Dick Armey, the House majority leader, actually agree. "The dangers of drifting -- or in this case, racing -- toward protectionist policies are very real," Mr. Armey said. "Let's not kid ourselves. It will not make anything better; in fact, it will make things much worse."
It is a warning worth remembering this week as American negotiators try to strike a deal with China on its entry into the W.T.O. Why would America want a country that may be stealing weapons designs, and is certainly imprisoning dissidents, inside the organization that sets the world's trade rules and judges who is violating them? Not as an act of charity, but to enmesh China's leaders in a system that sets some standards of international behavior.
But which is more powerful, the standard or the example? When Beijing is faced with deciding whether it must comply with unpopular rules that may cost its workers jobs, it is likely to look closely at how Washington handles the same problem. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STEEL AND IRON FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (64%); LUXURY GOODS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



443 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: The North Korean Threat

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration has defused a dangerous crisis by persuading North Korea to permit unlimited American inspections of a suspicious construction site. Washington feared the area was being readied for secret nuclear weapons work. But the inspection agreement leaves many problems unresolved, including the future of North Korea's provocative long-range missile program.
North Korea seems to be running an international extortion racket, trying to trade in threatening weapons programs for food, cash and other forms of assistance. Even worse, it may hope to continue secretly developing these weapons, with which it could threaten South Korea, Japan and the United States in a future crisis. America needs to change the nature of the bargaining by developing a more comprehensive approach. 
 Washington's 1994 agreement with Pyongyang has frozen North Korean nuclear weapons development for nearly five years. But it has also encouraged the North to seek new rewards in exchange for restraining its missile program and for allowing inspections of the new construction site. In the latest agreement, the Administration rightly rejected calls for large cash payments and agreed instead to a modest increase in food aid. Private American groups will also help the North increase its potato crop.
Talks on the missile issue resume March 29 and American negotiators should make clear that Washington does not want another one-issue deal. Congress and the Administration are understandably frustrated with North Korea's seemingly unending series of threats and demands. To break out of this pattern, the White House last fall asked William Perry, the former Defense Secretary, to review American policy on North Korea. His recommendations are expected next month.
The Administration should offer North Korea a plan to reduce tensions between the two countries. The Administration should make clear that it would be willing to ease economic sanctions and move toward diplomatic recognition. In return, Washington should insist that North Korea make a verifiable commitment to cease all dangerous weapons production and sales. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; MISSILES; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXTORTION (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



444 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: The Perpetual-Motion Economy;
The Stronger It Gets, the Sweatier the Palms

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE Dow Jones industrial average floats near 10,000. Jobs are plentiful. Wages are rising. Spending is everywhere. The economy booms, month after month. And nothing seems to shake the public sense of prosperity. So why are the oracles of the economy talking like Nervous Nellies?
Listen to Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, who told Congress last month that the economy "appears stretched in a number of dimensions." That on top of his insistence last September that America cannot remain an "oasis of prosperity." Or hear out Warren E. Buffett, the celebrated stock market guru, who said on national television not three weeks ago: "The level of speculation is high by any historic standard. And you know that doesn't go on forever." 
 Or worry with Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics, who said in an interview last week: "We have had three awfully good years now, and an incredible fourth quarter. But any setback can start the dominoes falling. Who knows what's next."
The nervousness, in fact, may be appropriate. This is hardly a standard, predictable boom. Normally, there is a beginning, middle and end -- the typical post-World War II experience. After a recession or period of sluggish growth, spending picks up and so does investment. Low-interest loans and more jobs help the process along, and the economy expands briskly.
IN time, however, people find themselves pressed financially. Worried, they slow their spending, and investment drops off. Or shortages develop, prices rise and the Federal Reserve, fearing too much inflation, raises interest rates to discourage the borrowing that sustains good times. Either way, sluggish growth returns, or a recession sets in.
But the boom that started in late 1995 broke this pattern. It is like a perpetual-motion machine, each part keeping the others moving -- and moving indefinitely, many Americans have come to believe. "There is this sense that we don't have to worry about problems or adverse conditions," said Richard T. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's Consumer Surveys. A "virtuous circle," economists call the new machinery.
The trouble is, if one part malfunctions, or breaks, the whole contraption may collapse. "A vicious circle would replace the virtuous one," Mr. Solow said, "and feed on itself."
The perpetual-motion economy, in brief outline, works this way: The rising stock market generates the household wealth that encourages the borrowing that pays for the spending that creates the jobs and the higher wages that generate the confidence that encourages people to invest in stocks and make the market rise some more.
"Many of us who have been doubters are starting to believe that this thing can go on forever," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "That is a complacency we may live to regret. But I cannot really substantiate doubt for a good analytic reason."
The stock market, a secondary player in standard booms, is the biggest cog this time around. As stock prices have shot up, household wealth has more than doubled in recent years. Wages have risen, but not nearly as fast as the rise in household wealth. And people are spending their new wealth, either by selling stock or borrowing against it. Not that the stock is the actual collateral. Instead, millions of people are putting up their homes as collateral, but with the thought, lenders and economists say, that they can sell stock to repay debt if necessary.
"The stock market has become a way of extracting equity from housing," said Wynne Godley, an economist at the Jerome Levy Institute.
Mortgage and home equity loans, as a result, are the fastest-rising form of consumer debt in recent months, the Federal Reserve reports. Why not? After all, stock prices won't go down that much, in the view of many Americans. "God, if we could only bottle all this confidence," Mr. Curtin said.
The perpetual-motion economy has other intriguing components. Inflation has stayed low, depriving the Federal Reserve of a reason to raise interest rates and provoke a slowdown. One big reason for the low inflation: Businesses here and abroad are producing more than people want to buy, even high-spending Americans. Oil and raw materials are particularly inexpensive, and the competition to sell all the excess production holds down prices. Not even a low unemployment rate and rising wages offset this downward pressure on prices.
The low inflation, in turn, produces low interest rates, which encourage people to borrow and spend on home construction, for example, and autos. Jobs are created, wages rise, confidence flourishes and more money is invested in the stock market, creating more wealth for households to borrow against. The flywheel keeps turning.
The global economic slowdown offers a separate contribution to this self-perpetuating mechanism. Asia's economies, including Japan's, are hurting. Europe is not particularly robust either. So corporate Asia and corporate Europe have turned to America, selling their merchandise here at what amounts to discount prices, helping to keep inflation down. There is one more link in this circle: Foreign investors take some of the dollars earned here and, rather than invest them back home, buy American securities, including stocks -- and share prices rise.
"I think the boom in America that seems so enduring will come to an ironic end," said John Makin, an economist and senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. "As the rest of the world does better, that will put a cap on things here for a while."
Mr. Makin is rather mild in his nervousness. So are Joel Prakken and Chris Varvares, partners at Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm in St. Louis. They see a gradual slowdown ahead because they believe stock prices will stop rising this year, and interest rates might edge up a bit.
BUT they don't see stock prices falling sharply enough to halt the perpetual-motion economy. Average stock prices would have to fall at least 30 percent and stay down for at least six months, an unlikely event in the view of most Wall Street economists and certainly in the view of many shareholders.
The Nervous Nellies are not mollified. What really seems to worry them is a new article of faith on Wall Street and among many Americans that if stock prices really drop, the Federal Reserve will save the day by lowering interest rates, thus adding fresh impetus to the perpetual-motion machine.
Such an optimistic expectation annoys Fed officials. One of Mr. Greenspan's top lieutenants, Michael J. Prell, the director of research, made the point in a recent speech.
"Might people -- business managers, consumers, investors -- be taking risks that they would not have taken were it not for an exaggerated confidence in the ability of the Fed to cushion the economy and financial markets against any and all shocks?" Mr. Prell asked. "If so, there conceivably could be a greater potential instability in the system than is readily apparent at this time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Betting on a Good Hand"
The strength of the nation's economy, reflected in a soaring stock market, low inflation, rising household wealth and strong retail sales, can be compared to the strongest hand in poker: the royal flush, or all five of the most valuable cards of the same suit. One card different and the hand is destroyed. Likewise, if one of the indicators brakes from its current trend - especially if the stock market collapses - the economy's winning hand will be broken.
 
Chart shows the numeric comparison between the best hand in poker and a soaring stock market, low inflation, and making the economy stronger.
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Commerce Department; Federal Reserve; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (50%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



445 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: Taking Off;
Missile Defenses Leave Fantasy Behind

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT'S a far cry from the space-based, rocket-zapping shield that President Ronald Reagan envisioned more than a decade and a half ago in the depths of the cold war. But the country is suddenly jettisoning its qualms about forging a national missile defense and is moving fast toward building one.
The threat is not an all-out strike from thousands of Soviet missiles, which prompted Mr. Reagan to launch the anti-missile program popularly known as "Star Wars" in 1983. The fear now is that rogue nations like North Korea or Iran, with little or no warning, could lob a devastating missile or two into Los Angeles or Seattle. This anxiety has been heightened by suspicions that China stole American nuclear secrets in the 1980's to enhance its small nuclear arsenal. 
 Such developments helped prompt the Senate and House last week to vote overwhelmingly in favor of anti-missile defenses as a matter of national policy, while stopping short of actually appropriating money for construction. Even the White House has reversed its opposition to the legislation, lending conditional support and pledging $10.5 billion in preliminary funding over the next six years. Clearly, pressure is mounting on President Clinton to actually build a system, once proven feasible, and he says he will decide by June 2000.
There are two surprises here. One is that anti-missile defenses, once strongly opposed and even ridiculed by Democrats and others, seem to be almost magically melting away as a domestic political issue. The second is that anti-missile defenses are more contentious than ever as an international political issue -- even with Russia, America's main nuclear rival, in eclipse.
Moscow is now threatening to stop reducing its 7,000-warhead arsenal if the United States breaks out of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which bars national defensive systems. China, meanwhile, says fielding missile defenses in Asia could seriously escalate tensions over Taiwan.
With the Russian Prime Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, arriving here on Tuesday for talks, and his Chinese counterpart, Zhu Rongji, due in Washington early next month, Mr. Clinton's foreign policy aides are bracing for a rough few weeks.
But first, why are things growing quiet on the domestic front?
For years, Republicans from Mr. Reagan onward tried to make missile defenses a national priority -- in an era when the threat of attack was arguably much bigger than it is now -- and for years they were opposed and even scoffed at by less hawkish opponents.
LAST year, however, a string of startling events prompted a sea change. A bipartisan commission headed by Donald H. Rumsfeld, a Republican and former Defense Secretary, warned in July that within five years, North Korea and Iran could have the potential to hit the United States with a ballistic missile.
Six weeks later, as if on cue, North Korea stunned American intelligence analysts by test-launching a three-stage missile with conceivably enough range to hit North America.
Congressional Republicans claimed vindication, and those claims have been enhanced lately by opinion polls showing that the public trusts Republicans over Democrats in matters of national security.
Shaken by the developments, many Democrats have been rethinking their opposition to missile defenses. And the ambitious plans for such defenses have been scaled back -- brought, literally, down to earth -- beginning with plans for about 20 interceptors that could shoot down a handful of missiles.
A crucial, recent convert is Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, the ranking Democrat on the Intelligence Committee.
"The Aug. 31 launch was a watershed moment," Mr. Kerrey said. "There is a growing recognition that there's a real danger of proliferation that produces either an accidental launching or an attack by a rogue nation."
Mr. Kerrey pulled along other centrist Democrats in support of the Republican-sponsored bill that passed in the Senate last week. Fearing that the votes weren't there to sustain a Presidential veto, the White House and Senate Democratic leaders settled for two face-saving amendments that seek to control the cost of any system and to insure arms control talks with Moscow.
"There's a change in Democratic ideology," said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. "The old-fashioned Democratic doves of the 1970's are giving way to centrists who are less hostile to defense."
That is not to say that all Democrats have bought into missile defenses. In fact, half the House Democrats opposed such a move last week. After $55 billion invested in developing a national system since the early 1980's (when the Reagan Administration creatively interpreted the A.B.M. treaty to allow research), the technology is still unproven. Moreover, detractors say, terrorists and despots could thwart a sophisticated missile defense with other weapons of terror.
"It could be bypassed with suitcase bombs, pickup trucks and sea-launched missiles," said Representative Rush D. Holt, a New Jersey Democrat who is a physicist. "It would be billions of dollars down the drain."
Pentagon brass dismiss the naysayers, arguing that military contractors and engineers will work out the technical kinks and, by 2005, field a limited system of radars and missile-killing interceptors -- perhaps in Alaska, North Dakota or on ships at sea -- if Mr. Clinton gives the go-ahead.
The fast-emerging consensus for missile defenses at home, however, collides with growing anxiety abroad, particularly in Beijing and Moscow.
Russia has long opposed an American missile defense system, fearing that Washington would use it as an excuse to reprise the much grander Star Wars, which would be dauntingly expensive to match.
While the anti-missile issue is of little concern to ordinary Russians struggling with dire economic conditions, it is core national security for Russian politicians, and a matter of considerable national self-esteem.
With the United States moving ahead on such a system, Russian nationalists could use the argument that Russia was losing its nuclear deterrent -- since an anti-missile defense could encourage a nation with one (that is, the United States) to risk a nuclear exchange. That argument could undercut, for example, efforts by the Russian Parliament to ratify the second strategic arms reduction treaty between the two countries, or Start 2.
Russia's Foreign Ministry warned after the Senate vote last week that building even a limited system "poses a serious threat to the whole process of nuclear arms control, as well as strategic stability."
And for this reason, arms control advocates are nervous about doing anything to upset further nuclear arms reductions with Russia. After all, they say, North Korea may threaten America with one to five missiles, but instability in Russia is a much greater risk. "Our overwhelming and sustained concern has to be Russia," said Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., a Delaware Democrat, who voted reluctantly for the Senate measure. "They got the most, they got the biggest, and they got the most accurate."
BUT Republicans and a growing number of Democrats say that building an anti-missile system is just as necessary to insure a safer world as reducing Moscow's nuclear stockpile, which is declining with or without a treaty because Russia no longer can afford to maintain it at cold war levels.
"It's a delicate balance with Russia," said Paul J. Wolfowitz, a senior Pentagon official under President Bush and a member of the Rumsfeld panel. "We don't want to alienate the Russians, but on the other hand we can't let them bully us."
In Asia, American-Japanese plans to develop a missile system to defend Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the American troops in the region got under way about a decade ago, in anticipation of the possible missile threat from North Korea.
As that threat has become more real, the plans to defend against it have encountered growing criticism from China -- and even from key allies. Two weeks ago, South Korea's Defense Minister said a joint American-Japanese missile defense would be ineffective against North Korean missiles, and added that his Government would not help pay for it.
Then there is the possibility that such an anti-missile system might not be ready for years, when there is at least a chance that there won't be a North Korea left to worry about. This is a point not lost on China, which views the proposed missile umbrella primarily as a threat to its plans to reunify Taiwan with the Chinese mainland. Since the early 1990's, China has more or less doubled, to several hundred, the number of missiles on the Chinese coast pointed at Taiwan.
The fear among many national security analysts in Asia is that missile defenses could do to China what the creation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization did to the Soviet Union: help to trigger a new escalation of arms.
"If we are for the development of advanced missile defense systems, we are going to touch off new rounds of an arms race," said He Yafei, a senior Chinese diplomat in Washington who has long experience in arms control.
And the idea of including Taiwan under any missile umbrella "is an obstruction on our course of unification of our motherland," he added. "Taiwan is part of China. Politically, that is an interference, a very serious interference in our internal affairs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS MISSILE SYSTEMS (95%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (94%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



446 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: March 15-19;
Asian Markets Gain, as the Dow Teases Teases

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE 

 BODY:
There are momentous thresholds, like the Dow 10,000, and then there is momentum.
 Hong Kong had a bit of both. The Hang Seng index of blue-chip stocks broke the 11,000 level on Friday for the first time in 11 months. The gain was 2.6 percent for the week, to 11,082.92. 
 In Japan, investors were happy to settle for momentum. On Friday, shares surged on the hope that a recovery of the battered economy was in the making. The Nikkei average gained 5.7 percent for the week, to close at 16,378.78. This strong momentum should continue for quite a while, Chua Soon Hock, a strategist at Sanwa Bank in Singapore, told Bloomberg News.
 In the United States, the cat-and-mouse game of the Dow Jones industrial average -- crossing 10,000 and then creeping back -- added a bit of March Madness to the market. Even so, lucidity in the form of an analyst's lower 12-month price target on I.B.M. again postponed a post-10,000 close. The Dow ended the week up just a fraction, closing on Friday at 9,903.55.
 No matter. It crossed 10,000 on Friday morning, and that sent markets in Paris and Frankfurt higher. The CAC-40 index closed up 1.1 percent for the week, while the DAX Xetra ended up 1.5 percent.
 MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
Mellon Bank
NYSE: MEL
The Pittsburgh-based banking company may take a stake in Credit Lyonnais as the two banks discuss creating a fund management ven-ture, said the French bank's chief executive, Jean Peyrelevade.
Friday's Close: $70.75
Week'S Change: -0.26%
EST. '99 P/E: 19.60
 
Gucci Group
NYSE: GUC
Profits for the 1999 fiscal year rose 11 percent. On Friday, trading was halted after Gucci agreed to sell Francois Pinault a 40 percent stake. In response, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton bid for all of Gucci.
Friday's Close: $81.00
Week'S Change: +24.62%
EST. '99 P/E: 27.23
 
3M
NYSE: MMM
Shares of the maker of some 50,000 consumer and industrial products fell as the company warned that the dollar's recent rally could mean that analysts' first-quarter forecasts for earnings were too high.
Friday's Close: $71.50
Week'S Change: -11.04%
EST. '99 P/E: 17.84
 
King World Prod.
NYSE: KWP
Merrill Lynch reiterated an accumulate" rating after Broadcasting and Cable reported that the No. 1 television-show syndicator was in talks with possible buyers, including CBS, Sony and Fox Entertainment.
Friday's Close: $29.3125
Week'S Change: +18.14%
EST. '99 P/E: 13.74
 
Medpartners
NYSE: MDM
Shares fell in the physi-cian practice manage-ment company after Cali-fornia regulators seized control of its health plan and sought bankruptcy protection for the unit. Several analysts then downgraded its stock.
Friday's Close: $3.375
Week'S Change: -29.87%
EST. '99 P/E: 8.13
 
Zeneca Group
NYSE: ZEN (A.D.R.'s)
The British drug maker said it would test and de-velop a herbicide for use on Monsanto's Roundup Ready crops. Also, the chemical maker Solvay agreed to buy Winnofil, a Zeneca unit, for an undis-closed price.
Friday's Close: $44.00
Week'S Change: +9.32%
EST. '99 P/E: 28.65
 
AMR
nyse: AMR
The parent of American Airlines said its board had authorized buying back an additional $500 million of its stock. The program offset a warning that AMR's first-quarter profit would be about half of current estimates.
Friday's Close: $60.50
Week'S Change: +4.31%
EST. '99 P/E: 10.53
 
Cambridge Tech.
NNM: CATP
The computer consulting company lost nearly half its value on Friday after it warned that first-quarter profit would be half of estimates. It also saw a revenue shortfall. This was its second warning in six months.
Friday's Close: $11.375
Week'S Change: -49.02%
EST. '99 P/E: 10.11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); HONG KONG (91%); FRANCE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); HONG KONG (91%); FRANCE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BONDS (78%); 

PERSON: FRANCOIS PINAULT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



447 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: ON (AND UNDER) MY DESK: RUSSELL READ

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN 

 BODY:
Books and papers are stacked 12 inches high on his desk and heaped in even taller piles under and in front of it. I feel papers and books are ideas, said Russell Read, an economist by training and now the director of investment-product design and risk management at Oppenheimer Funds. I like to be surrounded by ideas.
 On prominent display are two books by the physicist Richard P. Feynman. I like to explore alternative physical structures, Mr. Read said. Also on his desk is a black notebook full of mathematical formulas representing his thinking on how new investment strategies will work. 
 For all the cerebral cast to his work station, however, hints of more mundane pursuits poke through. There is, for example, a beeper that he says was forced on him by his staff. It was like belling the cat, he says. It's my bell. He also keeps an extra pair of shoes under his desk; he walks so much, he says, that he wears out a pair of soles every 10 weeks or so. Next to the shoes is a bomb pack, a gift from his employer. The pack contains a tiny flashlight and a bandanna with a bottle of water -- to combat smoke inhalation. Its presence is a constant reminder of where Mr. Read works -- the World Trade Center, which was bombed six years ago.
 VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN
 
HOMEMADE CALENDAR -- Created by his wife, Andrea, a poet, it features inspirational messages like, "A great man changes the way you see."
 
BEIGNET MIX -- From Cafe du Monde, his favorite cafe in New Orleans. The only problem, he says, is that when he makes the beignets (French doughnuts), they come out flat, not fluffy like the ones served in the cafe.
 
BUDDHA STATUE -- A gift from a friend and a reflection of his fascination with India.
 
(Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); INDIA (67%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (75%); BIHAR, INDIA (67%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER FUNDS INC

ORGANIZATION: OPPENHEIMER FUNDS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); INDIA (67%); LOUISIANA, USA (75%); BIHAR, INDIA (67%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); WRITERS (74%); BONDS (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); MATHEMATICS (55%); 

PERSON: READ, RUSSELL; KAHN, VIRGINIA MUNGER

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



448 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: The World: Latin America's Contagion;
Where Taxes Aren't So Certain

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador

 BODY:
AS the year began, the Ecuadorean Government was nearing bankruptcy, unable to pay teachers, doctors and other public employees or to repair $2.6 billion in damage inflicted by El Nino. Another example of global economic contagion? Not directly. It reflected a much older, if related, problem in Latin America, tax evasion. Here it had become so bad that the Ecuadorean Congress took a truly unorthodox step: It abolished the income tax altogether in favor of a one percent tax on financial transactions.
Ecuador's move was "an act of extraordinary desperation and an admission of defeat," as one American aid official put it last week. In effect, it wrote off the 60 percent or more of taxpayers here who are thought to be dodging their obligations, in hopes that the new tax would be easier to collect. 
 Americans grumbling over their 1040 returns this month might be envious. But there is a sobering context: Governments all over Latin America are coming under pressure from the International Monetary Fund and other lenders to cut their yawning budget deficits and open their economies to the outside world to prevent the spread of the financial slump that has humbled Southeast Asia and crippled Russia (a country with severe tax collection problems of its own). Latin America may yet prove particularly vulnerable to this contagion because development and growth are already crippled by the inability to collect taxes.
"I don't think there is any more vital issue in Latin America right now," said Michael Shifter, a senior fellow at the Washington-based policy analysis group Inter-American Dialogue. "It's a vicious cycle that is very, very hard to break. People don't want to pay taxes because they say government doesn't deliver services, but government institutions aren't going to perform any better until they have resources, which they obtain when people pay their taxes."
One measure of the dimension of the problem is that Brazil, Ecuador and other governments that have been forced to carry out a "fiscal adjustment" have preferred to emphasize spending cuts over new ways to increase revenues. "Since there is a culture of noncompliance in the region," said Luisa Rains, an economist who heads the fiscal division of the Inter-American Development Bank, "you're going to run into resistance and affect various interest groups any time you attempt a real tax modernization."
When Guatemala, another glaring example, signed a United Nations-sponsored peace accord ending its civil war in 1996, it promised to nearly double its tax revenues, to 12 percent of gross domestic product. But the country has failed to comply, and therefore is unable to adequately finance the education, health and land reform programs the accord stipulates. A powerful coalition of agricultural, industrial and financial groups is simply refusing to pay up and has blocked all efforts at tax reform.
Guatemala, of course, is not the only Latin American country famous for the gulf that separates the few who are rich from the many who are poor, and sometimes governments tolerate tax evasion because they are simply too weak to do otherwise.
In other cases, as in Mexico, or in Brazil and other military dictatorships during the 1970's, they do so with political advantage in mind. Newspapers and television stations, for instance, were allowed to evade obligations with the understanding that their debts would be called in if they published material that angered the government.
Even today, many large Latin America companies simply hold onto the income tax and social security payments they deduct from their employees' paychecks. Bribery of tax inspectors, underdeclaration of income and hiding ownership of property are other popular forms of evasion.
"When Leona Helmsley came out and said only little guys pay taxes, she ended up with a jail term," Ms. Rains recalled. "But in any number of Latin American countries, tax codes do not even treat the failure to pay taxes as a crime that requires you to serve a jail sentence." Even when arrests are made, cases can drag on for years.
BECAUSE of their inability or unwillingness to collect income taxes, Latin American countries have traditionally relied on measures such as the value-added tax, which runs as high as Uruguay's 23 percent. But such forms of taxation are highly regressive, placing a heavy burden on the poor and stoking their resentment.
The problem may be especially acute in this Andean nation of 12 million people, which is in the midst of its worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. "Nobody pays taxes," a longtime diplomat here said. "Those in a position to pay the most pay the least, and then they cry the most." As a result, he continued, "the poor say, 'Why should we pay if the rich don't?' "
The flat tax on financial transactions that Ecuador enacted last January (and that resembles a measure approved by Brazil's Congress last week), was supposed to curb the possibilities for evasion. But once again, the citizenry demonstrated an exceptional ability to find a way around paying up.
As soon as the new tax was imposed, local bank deposits dropped 16 percent. Canny depositors simply converted their sucres into dollars and then spirited their money out of the country. That led to a run on the local currency that saw its value drop by more than 40 percent in just a few weeks. So last week, President Jamil Mahuad again gave up in desperation. He agreed to restore the income tax, though without specifying how he intends to enforce collection.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A boy plays in Quito, Ecuador, as troops watch for protests against austerity. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (62%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (62%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (55%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (62%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; ECUADOR (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); QUITO, ECUADOR (55%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAX EVASION; VALUE-ADDED TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); WEATHER (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); VALUE ADDED TAX (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); TRENDS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



449 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2778 words

HEADLINE: LIFE AFTER WELFARE -- FIRST TIME FILERS;
On a Once Forlorn Avenue, Tax Preparers Now Flourish

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, March 20

 BODY:
It slopes up from the old Schlitz Brewery, past empty lots, storefront churches, Victory over Violence Park, and the Black Holocaust Museum. It burned in two days of racial violence in 1967. Since then, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, once a proud retailers row, has mostly been known as an asphalt emblem of urban distress.
But in the first tax season since the state completed its radical welfare reductions, King Drive has acquired an unlikely new identity -- as a battleground of bookkeepers. From the Federal Building at its southern base to the "Shalom Zone" of churches in the north, the tax preparers have arrived in droves, seeking the business of the neighborhood's new workers. 
 On a strip once so forlorn it drew a National Guard patrol, H & R Block has decorated a spiffy new office with posters of the Caribbean beaches that beckon those with refunds. Across the street, at its makeshift quarters in an abandoned bakery, Jackson Hewitt, another tax preparation service, has been so busy it has had to double its staff. A few blocks north, at Milwaukee Check Cashers, a tax business is booming behind the bulletproof glass. Tax preparation is such a growth industry here that even a welfare office on King Drive is offering a course in its numerical arts.
Up and down the avenue, the explanation is the same: tough welfare laws are good for business. "With welfare being cut off and everything, everybody's got to go back to work," said Lorenzo Cartman, who manages the H & R Block office on King Drive. "They either work or they starve, and I don't think they want to starve."
Indeed, Mr. Cartman was so confident in his theory -- less welfare means more work -- that he staked his fortune on it, choosing to manage the King Drive store, over other H & R Block offices, because he thought it would be easier to meet his performance goals. "I was thinking, 'First-time filers!' 'People finally moving out on their own!' " he said. "I liked the numbers."
But tax season on King Drive is more than a simple morality play of poor people going to work. It is a showcase of the competing dynamics involved in the makings of a new working class: low pay and large Government subsidies; old habits and new beginnings; streetwise versions of the white lies that accompany tax season everywhere, and a few outright scams.
Tumbling through a temp-job world, former welfare recipients often arrive at tax offices here with a half-dozen wage statements from a single year. (The record for W-2 forms seems to have been set at the Jackson Hewitt office, where one couple counted 22 between them.) But while earnings are low -- $9,087 on the average return prepared by the check-cashing store -- a growing program of wage supplements turns tax time into a bonanza. Few families pay income tax in poor neighborhoods like this, and many collect thousands of dollars in Government bonuses to the working poor.
Indeed, the $29 billion Federal program, called the earned income tax credit, now transfers more money to the needy in a single season than welfare did all year. And because Wisconsin is one of seven states with a similar program of its own, poor people in Milwaukee can receive combined state and Federal payments that augment their yearly earnings by 30 percent, 40 percent, or even 50 percent. A single mother with three children who earns $10,000, for instance, would qualify for the maximum wage supplement, of $5,371. That is in addition to the refund of any taxes withheld.
While the action along King Drive depicts a level of post-welfare success, it also frames deeper questions about the society being reshaped. More poor people are working, no doubt. And some do see themselves with expanded paychecks and dreams, as the architects of the new system had hoped. But others say that working in the entry-level economy is just another way of staying poor. Is this an old underclass? A nascent middle-class? Somewhere in between?
There are hundreds of answers along King Drive this time of year.
Some new workers talk of starting their own business.
"I want to do my own day care center in my house," said Debra Morton, who collected a $4,100 supplement on earnings of $6,900 and talks of buying paint and plaster. Ms. Morton has been on and off welfare for more than a decade, but she left about two years ago to become a cashier at a discount store. "Welfare's got a lot of rules now," she said. "It's better for me if I work."
Some want to thank the Lord.
"This has made my day!" shouted Toni Harris, 28, when she learned her earnings of $17,000 would bring her a payment of $1,600. A bank clerk by day, Ms. Harris has a second calling as an author of spiritual poetry, and she had a line ready for the occasion:
There are no words to explain my insight
I just praise God for his power and might.
Some want to take a break.
With $1,000 coming back on earnings of $3,100, Valerie Treadwell, a nursing assistant, plans to continue an annual tradition: taking her female partner to a resort in Green Bay, "to get buck naked and let all our inner feelings out."
Some have no plans at all.
"I don't know too much about taxes," said Derenda Turner, 27, who has been on welfare since her daughter was born 12 years ago. With $1,100 in earnings last year -- Ms. Turner worked at Burger King for two months -- she qualifies for a payment of $400. Puzzled but pleased, she made a half-hearted pledge to resume work. "What is it -- an 'earned income tax credit?' " she asked. "I really got to get me a job, so I can get some more."
Since 1990, the number of Wisconsin families receiving credits has grown by 42 percent. And the average payment has nearly tripled to $2,088, counting the state and Federal credits. For families with children, the payments rise until earnings hit $9,500, then level off and slowly decline. Families are ineligible if their earnings exceed $30,000.
While Congress has turned the Federal program into one of the nation's largest anti-poverty efforts, few people have asked what the poor do with the money.
Does it help them build new lives?
Some intriguing hints come from Timothy M. Smeeding and Katherin E. Ross of Syracuse University, who surveyed 830 beneficiaries of the program in Chicago. They found that 26 percent planned to use all the money for immediate needs, like food, rent, utilities or clothes. But more than half planned to spend at least some of it on investments in the future: moving (5 percent); sending themselves or their children to school (9 percent); buying a car (14 percent); or saving (28 percent).
Mr. Smeeding calls that reassuring news. "This program is not just enhancing consumption, but improving social mobility," he said.

New Welfare Law Helps Businesses
As a window into the city's soul, King Drive has a long history. It grew up as North Third Street in the mid-19th century and matured as a fabled stretch of stores. They dazzled an 8-year-old girl named Golda Mabovitch when she arrived from Russia in 1906. "Everything looked so colorful and fresh, as though it had just been created," she wrote decades later, as Golda Meir, after serving as the Prime Minister of Israel.
By the late 1950's, the stores were moving out to the malls, and a poor black neighborhood was left behind.
No one is quite sure how the rioting began on July 30, 1967. Detroit had burned just a week earlier, and Milwaukee was tense when the police responded to a report of broken windows at a Third Street business. When the violence ended 10 days later, 3 people had died and 1,740 had been arrested -- nothing like Detroit, where 43 people died, but enough to leave the neighborhood shunned for a generation.
Every state now has tougher welfare laws, but the program that has hit the Wisconsin streets is especially strict. Virtually everyone receiving cash assistance must join a work program. Rather than work for welfare, most recipients simply seek jobs on their own in the state's strong economy. The rolls in Milwaukee have now fallen 80 percent from their 1986 peak -- to 7,700 families, from 38,400 -- and more than three-quarters of the decline has occurred in the last two years.
Though data on their experiences remains scarce, a recent state survey found that 83 percent had been employed at some point after leaving welfare. In that sense, at least, the program, Wisconsin Works, is living up to its nickname: "W-2."
That has been good news for Jackson Hewitt, the nation's second-largest chain of tax preparers. In a typical year, the offices in Milwaukee see a 20 percent increase in new customers. This year the figure on King Drive is 38 percent.
Business has also increased at Milwaukee Check Cashers, a neon hub at the epicenter of the old riot zone. According to a computer analysis prepared for The New York Times, the store now cashes $129,000 less in welfare checks each month than it did two years ago. But the amount of payroll checks it cashes each month has risen by $355,000. In other words, on that corner of King Drive at least, for every dollar of lost welfare there has been a $2.69 increase in wages.
"We are doing more business than ever with our W-2 clients," said George Franco, the store's president. "Instead of one payment a month, they're cashing checks weekly or biweekly. It's been very positive for our business."
Nearby, sales are up at Nefertari's Beauty Salon, and T-Bone's Pagers is mulling an expansion into cell phones to keep pace with client demands. Among those monitoring King Drive's sidewalk economics is Patrick Hunter, 27, who peddles watches and videos outside the check-cashing store.
"There's a lot more money out here than there used to be," he said. "You got more women working. A lot of people waking up to that -- stability, morals, and values and things."
Then again, a lot of people are waking up to wages that may leave stability beyond reach -- often $6 to $7 an hour and less than full time.
Everyone has to start somewhere, of course. But as 30,000 Milwaukee families begin their post-welfare lives, it remains unclear whether their jobs will prove a stepping-stone or a treadmill.
At 39, Delores Jefferson has packed head cheese at a sausage factory for the last 14 years. But she has never been hired full time, and her wage leaves her whispering in embarrassment: $6.35 an hour. In the past, she has filled in the gaps with welfare. This year, she took a second job at the post office that literally leaves her working around the clock.
"I have to be at the meat-packing plant at 9 A.M.," she said, while having her taxes prepared. "I get off at 3:30 P.M., go home, eat my dinner, be in bed by 5 P.M. Get up at 11 P.M. Be at the post office at midnight, get off at 6 A.M. Get a couple hours of sleep -- be at work at 9 A.M."
"It works," she said.
 
Tax Preparers Find New Clients
Like their clients, the tax preparers themselves are no strangers to the entry-level economy: they, too, perform low-paid, seasonal work, with uncertain prospects for advancement. Software programs make the work routine, and wages in some offices start as low as $5.50 an hour (with modest end-of-the-season bonuses). Last year, about 22 of the preparers hired by H & R Block had come from the welfare rolls, a recruiting pool for other services, too.
"They're not going to get rich, and I tell them they're not going to get rich," said the manager of one commercial service. "You just hope and pray they don't find a good job, so they'll come back every year."
The low labor costs do not necessarily translate into low filing fees. The Internal Revenue Service sponsors four sites along King Drive where volunteers prepare returns for free. (One is run by the Opportunities Industrialization Center, a state subcontractor, as a job-training program for welfare recipients.) But with as much as half of their annual income tied up in the tax code, many poor people pay commercial services to get the money quickly.
At Jackson Hewitt, the charge for a basic tax return begins at $48. But 65 percent of the clients pay additional fees, starting at $54, for the firm's "Accelerated" electronic service, which secures the money in about two weeks. (It takes about six weeks through the mail.) Another 17 percent pay even more for the "Superfast" program, a loan through an affiliated bank.
The banks issue "Superfast" refunds within three days, and secure their repayment directly from the I.R.S. But the effective interest rate, if calculated on an annual basis, can range from 57 percent to 663 percent, according to bank disclosure forms. (It depends in part on the size of the loan.) Other companies offer similar products and rates. Desperate to pay the rent, clients occasionally surrender nearly $200 in interest and preparation fees on a $500 refund.
The lure of these electronic programs, in addition to their speed, is the absence of up-front costs. Those who file paper returns must front the preparation fees. But electronic filers can have the costs deducted from the refund.
"If I had my druthers, I'd rather not see a customer do "Superfast' or 'Accelerated,' " said Shelly Pipjaert, the manager of Jackson Hewitt's Milwaukee offices. "It's a shame. It's a lot of money. But if that's what the customer wants, that's what the customer gets."
While the tax credit's focus on work, not welfare, has bolstered its political support, there have been recent concerns about its susceptibility to fraud. An audit of the 1994 returns found improper payments in 26 percent of the claims, a worrisome rate with costs approaching $30 billion.
 
A Tax Bonus Susceptible to Fraud
Some errors simply stem from confusion over the rules. (To qualify fully, for instance, parents must live with their children for at least half the year.) Others come from wholesale fraud. (A woman outside the H & R Block office said she has sold her children's Social Security numbers, for $300, in years when she was ineligible because she did not work.) And still others arise from street-wise bartering that may be as socially sanctioned in some neighborhoods as it is illegal.
Consider, for instance, a single mother on welfare and her children's absent father. She has no earnings; he earns $10,000 a year. Without wages, she cannot receive a refund. Without the children, he is ineligible, too. But if they say their two children spent half the year with him, they could split a combined state and Federal payment of nearly $4,300.
Government auditors would call this fraud, and it is. But some poor families see it differently, especially if the father helps out by paying child support. Ms. Morton, the aspiring day care provider, said she would have no problem in letting her daughter's father claim the child even though he lives in Chicago. "She is his child and he helps me with her," she said. Because she has four other children -- and the value of the Federal credit is capped after two -- her refund would not be affected.
New anti-fraud efforts appear to have doused the more brazen schemes. But because eligibility depends on who lives where, a strict accounting remains difficult.
Among those caught in the Government's snare was Mr. Hunter, the street-corner apostle of new values. He now owes more than $2,000 for illegally claiming his girlfriend's baby by another man. "It wasn't like it was behind her back," he said. "I bought the baby some clothes."
These days, he is caught between self-reproach ("scamming the tax people is illegal") and the argument that filing creative tax returns is an American tradition -- a move toward mainstream values. "Rich people cheat on their taxes, too," he said. As long as people are working, he said, "it's not the same as welfare -- there ain't nobody getting played."
 
Change in Milwaukee: Life After Welfare
With the nation's welfare rolls down 43 percent, President Clinton, as well as his Republican critics, count the landmark 1996 welfare law as the cornerstone of their respective legacies. That law replaced a 60-year-old cash safety net with a program of time limits and work requirements.
No place has come closer than Wisconsin to the goal of "ending welfare." A decade ago, 100,000 Wisconsin families relied on public aid. Now 9,000 do.
The changes taking place in the state, particularly in its largest city, Milwaukee, continue to reverberate in broad and unpredictable ways. Throughout the year, The New York Times is returning to Milwaukee to plot the pattern of change.
 The articles and related coverage of welfare issues are available on The New York Times on the Web, at: www.nytimes.com/ politics.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the first tax season after Wisconsin's welfare reductions, tax preparers have arrived in droves on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in Milwaukee, joining the check-cashing stores, as they seek the business of the neighborhood's new workers. These people recently waited to get checks cashed. More Wisconsin residents need help with taxes because of the new welfare law, as they are now working. Some recently sought help from tax volunteers of the American Association of Retired Persons in Milwaukee. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (56%); AARP INC (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN; MILWAUKEE (WIS); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); BREWERIES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); TAX LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON LORENZO CARTMAN (65%); TONI HARRIS (62%); DEBRA MORTON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



450 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2027 words

HEADLINE: Russian With Many Faces May Get Lift in U.S. Visit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 20

 BODY:
In his long and somewhat mysterious political career, Yevgeny M. Primakov has dealt with the United States in many guises: reform Communist, intelligence chief and an occasionally quarrelsome Foreign Minister.
But now, as Prime Minister and effective leader of the Russian Government under an erratic, ailing and jealous President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Primakov is facing one of his most important challenges. 
 In Washington next week, his goal will be to win several billion dollars in credits from a skeptical International Monetary Fund. The prize would help Russia to regain a modicum of respectability on the world financial markets and to restructure its colossal foreign debt.
It would also make Mr. Primakov a conquering hero at home, with greatly improved chances of succeeding Mr. Yeltsin.
It is a testimony to his dogged persistence -- and the anxiety of the West about Russia's stability -- that he is likely, eventually, to prevail, despite an economic policy that is little more than a vague and sometimes contradictory prescription for muddling through.
His supporters say this is all the West can expect from a nation exhausted by its tainted experiment with capitalism. With Mr. Yeltsin's health fading by the day and Russia's market reformers in political exile, they say, the United States would be wise to recognize Mr. Primakov as its best bet.
"The fact is we have had a more or less stable situation," said Yuri Kobaladze, the deputy director of the Itar-Tass Government news agency, who also worked for Mr. Primakov when he ran the nation's intelligence service. "Nobody else could have achieved this very small positive result."
To his critics, however, Mr. Primakov is a classic Soviet apparatchik, an official who has established a political equilibrium largely by avoiding the tough decisions needed to yank Russia out of its economic mire.
"He is part Andropov and part Brezhnev," said Andrei Piontkovsky, one of Russia's leading political analysts, referring to Yuri Andropov, the former Soviet leader and K.G.B. chief who urged discipline, and Leonid Brezhnev, the stolid Soviet leader who preceded him and presided over 18 years of social and economic stagnation. "Like Andropov, he has been efficiently promoting people from the former K.G.B. community. Like Brezhnev his style for running the country is to do nothing," Mr. Piontkovsky added.
 
Rich Experience, But a Tough Job
Nobody would deny that the 69-year-old Mr. Primakov inherited an onerous situation when he became Prime Minister following the financial crisis in August.
The ruble had crashed. Inflation was soaring and the harvest was a bust. Critics warned that Mr. Primakov would blunder his way into an even greater financial debacle.
However rich his experience in Kremlin intrigue, nothing had prepared him for this. Born in Kiev and raised in Tbilisi, now the capitals of Ukraine and Georgia, he studied at the Institute of Oriental Studies in Moscow and became a Pravda correspondent in the Middle East.
In those days, Soviet correspondents were often spies or collaborators with Soviet intelligence. Many Western analysts assume that Mr. Primakov was no exception, though Mr. Primakov vigorously denies it.
For a leader who has cultivated a reputation as a steely defender of Russian interests, Mr. Primakov remains surprisingly sensitive about his image in the West. Nothing seems to rankle him more than the charge that he is an unreconstructed intelligence operative or Cold Warrior.
"I won't kill you, so don't kill me," he implored at the start of an interview with The New York Times last year, when he was still Foreign Minister.
Then he waved a sheaf of critical editorials and columns from American newspapers in dismay. "It is unpleasant for me that the American press sometimes depicts me as some kind of monster," Mr. Primakov said. "I like the satirical articles of Art Buchwald. Those are classics."
The image Mr. Primakov likes to project is that of a scholar-turned-Government-minister who never intended to climb the rungs of power. His heavy glasses and mumbled speech are reminiscent of those of Soviet leaders, and that serves as an odd public relations advantage in a nation where the older population and left-wing opposition are still nostalgic for the Communist past. Not everyone, however, takes Mr. Primakov's humility at face value.
"The assertion that Primakov did not have career ambitions are all exaggerated," the newspaper Moskovsky Komsomolets wrote in October. Following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990, Mr. Primakov persuaded the Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, to authorize a round of shuttle diplomacy, casting himself in the starring role, the newspaper noted.
The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, was so unhappy with Mr. Primakov's self-appointed mission, he alerted the Americans that he opposed it, James A. Baker, President Bush's Secretary of State, recalled in his memoirs.
Though his diplomacy failed to avert the Persian Gulf war, Mr. Primakov was appointed chief of foreign intelligence. He was the highest-ranking official to hang onto his post despite the collapse of the Soviet state.
Quietly tending to his spycraft, however, was not enough. From his intelligence post, he issued a stern report on NATO expansion, assailing the United States for taking advantage of a weakened Russia. That made him a politically convenient choice to become Foreign Minister in January 1996, when Mr. Yeltsin decided that his pro-Western Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, had become a political liability.
Even then, Mr. Primakov kept up his nationalist rhetoric, though he was always careful to keep Russian-American relations one step short of confrontation, for instance over the Balkans.
"We Russians have been in the Balkans for 200 years," Mr. Primakov said in his Times interview. "Once I told my American friends, it reminds me of a situation where we Russians come to Mexico without taking into consideration the opinion of the United States. Of course, the United States knows the situation in Mexico much better. First, they had taken away Texas. Now they are acting through Nafta to prevent the repopulation of Texas by Mexicans."
Those kinds of barbs, as well as his criticisms of the I.M.F., endeared him to the left-wing opposition. After the August financial collapse, Mr. Primakov became the consensus candidate for Prime Minister, acceptable both to the Communists who dominate Parliament and to some market reformers.
 
Solid Appearance Has Spelled Success
In Russia's topsy-turvy politics, Mr. Primakov has won the warmest praise for what he has not done as Prime Minister. He has not renationalized key industries, enforced draconian currency controls or flooded the country with newly printed rubles.
But he has also done little to keep Russia marching along the path of market reform. His Government team -- an ungainly coalition of Communists and social democrats -- has never spelled out its economic plan.
"What is Primakov's secret?" the newspaper Segodnya recently asked. "It is his solid outward appearance and his measured manner of expression. It seems he says nothing special, yet his words sound weighty. As a result, everyone hears what they want. Liberals hear 'market,' and Communists 'state regulation.' "
Uninspiring and murky though it may be, the message seems to work, at least to a point. Public opinion polls indicate that he is the most trusted of Russia's generally detested politicians. Mr. Primakov was supported by 27 percent of those surveyed this month by the Public Opinion Foundation, several points ahead of the second most popular politician, Gennadi Zyuganov, the Communist leader.
Mr. Primakov, however, is not relying on the polls. He has cemented his control of the bureaucracy by inserting former aides at the intelligence agency in key positions.
Mr. Kobaladze, a suave executive at Itar-Tass who previously served as the spokesman for the foreign intelligence service, is just one member of the fraternity. Lev Koshlyakov, a former intelligence officer in Australia and Norway, is now chief of the news division of RTR, the Government television channel.
Grigory Rapota, a former Primakov aide at the intelligence agency, heads the powerful Rosvooruzheniye, the Government company in charge of selling arms.
Another loyal Primakov aide now runs the Customs Service. Along with the Rosvooruzheniye appointment, that gives Mr. Primakov control of two of the Government's leading sources of revenue, tightening his authority over the Government and giving him the important advantage of a potential source of campaign funds, Mr. Piontkovsky said.
As he has in the past, Mr. Primakov insists he has no higher aspirations. He is certainly interested, however, in extending the Kremlin's power. Mr. Primakov's authoritarian streak recently surfaced when he proposed that local governors be appointed by the Kremlin instead of chosen by the voters, a step that would require amending the Constitution.
Much of Mr. Primakov's jockeying for power appears to have displeased Mr. Yeltsin. But so far the President has been too weakened physically and politically to do much about it.
Mr. Yeltsin, however, has made it clear that he expects Mr. Primakov to deliver the credits from the I.M.F. Aides to the President have even hinted that Mr. Primakov might be ousted if he falls short.
 
U.S. Aid Won't Fix Russian Money Woes
Certainly, Mr. Primakov has done his best to create the proper atmospherics for the meetings next week. He has pushed for approval of the Start II treaty (the Russian Parliament is scheduled to begin debate on ratifying the treaty on April 2). And he has cooperated just enough on halting Serbian repression in Kosovo to avoid a head-on fight with the United States.
His favorable working relationship with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright is well known; he even made a surprise phone call to the Secretary one snowy night to wish her a happy New Year.
While Mr. Primakov has yet to produce an economic plan, his aides have sought to close the gap with the I.M.F., calculating that American pressure will prompt the fund to settle over the remaining differences.
None of this, however, will solve all of Mr. Primakov's problems. The funds that Russia hopes to receive would largely offset the $4.8 billion the Government owes the fund this year. The monetary fund's blessing would make it easier for the Kremlin to renegotiate other foreign loans and to unlock about another $1.2 billion in World Bank and Japanese aid. But the foreign assistance will not take all of the pressure off Russia's domestic budget. With tax revenues lagging behind expectations, experts say, Russia may face further wage delays, decisions to print more money and rising inflation.
Deeper economic reforms have also been put on hold. The privatization of state enterprises has all but ground to a halt and the Government has yet to carry out its long-overdue restructuring of its collapsed banking sector.
Mr. Primakov appears to be calculating that Russians' craving for stability is so strong that they will not be distressed by the Government's inaction.
If he can escape the wrath of Mr. Yeltsin, who dismissed two Prime Ministers last year, his cautious incrementalism might win him the presidency next year.
While Mr. Primakov denies that he is running for President, he has made clear that he is aiming at a broader political legacy.
"I do not want my legacy to be that of K.G.B. agent," he said in his Times interview, alluding to his image in the West. "Absolutely not."
Yet he could not resist a telling quip about his days of intrigue, displaying the humor that is said to mark his private conversations from his dour public demeanor. He recalled that, when he ran the foreign intelligence service, he had invited several American lawmakers to visit him.
"Two Congressmen who visited me asked if they were the first Americans to visit the headquarters," he said. "I said, 'You are the first who are not our agents.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yevgeny M. Primakov may try to succeed Boris N. Yeltsin. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (70%); TRENDS (61%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) YEVGENY M PRIMAKOV (97%); BORIS N YELTSIN (58%); YURI VLADIMIROVICH ANDROPOV (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



451 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: 'Two for America' Beat the Drums for the Military

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19

 BODY:
Among the Defense Secretaries of the last half century whose pictures on magazine covers decorate a drab corridor of the Pentagon, one stands out. It is not George Marshall, the "Man of Crisis" on a 1950 U.S. News & World Report, or Caspar W. Weinberger, who wonders "How to Spend a Trillion" on a 1981 Time cover.
It is William S. Cohen, the current Secretary of Defense, who shares the front of Parade magazine with his wife, Janet Langhart Cohen, under the headline, "Two For America." 
 That portrait is not just another example of Mr. Cohen's famous sentimentality. (True, the former Republican Senator, who married three years ago on Valentine's Day, has written, among other things, an ode to the F-15 fighter jet.) The headline is an apt description of a rare public relations campaign by the husband-wife Cohen team. With public appearances, musical events and Mrs. Cohen's new weekly television show broadcast to armed forces bases around the globe, the Cohens are on a mission to bridge the gap between the civilian and military cultures.
Mrs. Cohen has undertaken a role that is almost unheard for a Cabinet spouse, even one known as the First Lady of the Pentagon.
But for Janet Cohen, 56, it is just the latest interesting twist in a 30-year television career, though the first time she has worked free.
While Secretary Cohen courts the civilian world, beating the drum for increasing military pay as well as the military budget, Janet Cohen acts as a one-woman morale booster for the armed services.
With all the high-voltage emotion that was her professional trademark as anchor, correspondent and talk show host at ABC, NBC, CBS and Black Entertainment Network, she tells the troops they are "awesome," that the country appreciates their hard work and that they should keep at it.
Think part Eleanor Roosevelt, part Oprah Winfrey.
"My mission is to support Bill," Mrs. Cohen said in an interview last week. "He's the passion of my life, and it's impassioned me about our military people."
Seated in her all-white penthouse apartment with wraparound balconies overlooking Pennsylvania Avenue, she said: "My role just evolved on my travels with Bill where we talked about the need for the country to reconnect with the military, to let them know the fine job they're doing, how we're all in awe of our military."
In the last two months she has started her weekly television series, "Special Assignment," for the armed services international broadcast network, in which she interviews civilian and military leaders. Her first subject was President Clinton, aboard Air Force One, and she has lined up Tom Cruise, Hollywood's "Top Gun," and Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, for later programs.
With her husband, she recently was the host of a "Pentagon Pops" musical salute to the military performed by military musicians at Constitution Hall. At the event, Secretary Cohen said the show came about because "Janet simply asked, 'Why not the best music for the best military in the world?' "
And by the end of the month she will have her own Web site for comments from the military. (She is already getting feedback from the professionals, like the Sergeant Major of the Army, Robert E. Hall, who, after being interviewed by her, said Mrs. Cohen "doesn't come off like the wife of the Secretary of Defense -- she come's off as someone who cares about the service.")
Her volunteer efforts are not just a vanity project, Pentagon officials say, but a high-profile effort to bolster recruiting goals that have proved out of reach despite plans to raise military pay by more than 4 percent, with bonuses of about 10 percent, and a national nostalgia streak for the patriotism of World War II started by the movie "Saving Private Ryan."
"It's not easy when we're competing against one of the most vibrant economies in history," Mrs. Cohen said. "And that means holding onto the families, too, by giving them good housing, pay, retirement, medical care and education for their kids."
While this is the basic boilerplate message of her husband, the same points, when made in front of the troops by Mrs. Cohen, a former model and one of the first African-American women to break into national television, seem more like entertainment, and that has earned her high marks in some serious circles.
"Raising the esprit de corps is critical, which is why what she's doing is so worthwhile," said Michael O'Hanlon, a military analyst at the Brookings Institution.
Kati Marton, who is writing a book on "First Couples" and is part of a power couple with Richard C. Holbrooke, whose nomination as Ambassador to the United Nations is pending in Congress, said of Mrs. Cohen: "What she's doing is very much in keeping with that activist engaged role that Eleanor Roosevelt pioneered. She is essential to her husband's well being and his job, and she is taking a full role in both."
Mrs. Cohen chose her new Pentagon role with care, playing to her strengths, which include the considerable poise and magnetism that got her started in her career.
Reared in the housing projects of Indianapolis by a single mother, she studied at Butler University and Indiana University but quit when she won a $500 beauty contest in Chicago. That led to modeling jobs in Chicago and then her big break as the weather woman on a Chicago television station.
After that she was the host of the morning program "Indy Today" on an Indianapolis television station, then moved to a network affiliate in Boston.
"I was very, very lucky," Mrs. Cohen says. She had been married twice when she began dating Mr. Cohen, who was then a Senator from Maine and who was also divorced.
They married shortly before Mr. Cohen, now 58, was named Defense Secretary in late 1996. She is now running Langhart Communications, teaching corporate executives how to handle the news media. But she has also traveled with her husband to Spain and Bulgaria, to the Middle East and South Korea. Whenever she visits the troops, she mingles with them, eliciting the whoops and yells normally associated with movie stars, not politicians' wives.
"You hear the national anthem, you go to the bases, and it has a different feeling," she said. "I get very emotional."
The most ambitious of Mrs. Cohen's projects is the Special Assignment segments for the 156 stations of the armed forces international network overseas and replayed on videotape on the bases in the United States. She started the series this month with her 30-minute interview of President Clinton.
Mrs. Cohen's approach was anything but a grilling. Her toughest question was, 'Sir, with all due respect, you offered the highest budget proposal in a long time -- ever. But is it enough when you talk about the things we're asking of them to do?"
After responding that nothing was too good for the military, the President was steered by Mrs. Cohen to describe the idealism of the troops who helped the Central American victims of Hurricane Mitch and served as peacekeepers in Bosnia, as well as their sacrifices. He needed little prompting.
In her weekly interviews, Mrs. Cohen says she will be mining that strain of idealism as she invites members of the armed services, celebrities, business leaders and politicians to make what she calls "testimonials on air" for the military.
Mr. Cohen, who courted her with his own love poems, sees nothing but good in her efforts.
"She touches people," he said in an interview. "She can infuse them with a sense of real spirit. As to the difference she is making, out in the field, every single leader that I meet, the first question is, 'Why didn't you bring your wife?' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Cohen, in the Washington apartment she shares with her husband, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, has gone from 30 years on television to a new role as a one-woman morale booster for the armed services. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TELEVISION; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY) ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (67%); 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); COHEN, JANET L BILL CLINTON (71%); TOM CRUISE (58%); OPRAH WINFREY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



452 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Sports Arena Plans Put Some on Edge

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
Amid the cheering of city officials hungry for a new downtown sports arena Soraida Cruz has one thing to say: "Over my dead body."
Mrs. Cruz, 34, whose house stands in the path of a proposed $223 million stadium for the Nets, has no desire to sacrifice the house where she was born for a greater civic good. Nor do the 300 other East Ward residents whose homes have been designated "blighted" by a city desperate for the 40-acre sports complex. "Let them find another way to improve Newark without hurting us," Mrs. Cruz said. 
 Similar sentiments can be heard 10 miles away in Hoboken, where the principal owner of the Devils, John McMullen, envisions a new home for his hockey team. Mr. McMullen said last week that he wants to build an 18,500-seat arena, two levels of shops and a 20-screen movie theater on a platform above the railroad tracks, with a view of lower Manhattan.
But Mr. McMullen's high-tech renderings and sales pitch have won few supporters in Hoboken, a formerly down-and-out waterfront town of 30,000 people that has seen its fortunes soar in recent years.
"Is he crazy or what?" asked Charlie Raso, 71, a retired truck driver who has spent his entire life in Hoboken. Like many residents, Mr. Raso says the town is already suffering from too much of a good thing: too many bars, too little parking, soaring real estate prices and so many new faces that he and his wife feel like foreigners when they walk down Washington Street. "We need this thing like I need a hole in my head," he said.
Both proposals face daunting competition from the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which wants to build a $212 million replacement for the Continental Airlines arena in the Meadowlands, which is home to the Devils, the Nets, the Giants, the Jets and the MetroStars soccer team. Because all three proposals would require publicly financed infrastructure improvements, state officials say that only one of the stadiums will be built.
For now the sponsors of each plan are trying to win the support of the public and, ultimately, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. So when Mrs. Cruz and a group of her neighbors held a news conference on Thursday to announce a lawsuit against the City of Newark, Mayor Sharpe James could not contain his fury.
"We will not dignify disgruntled individuals who are against everything and for nothing," the Mayor said in a terse statement. The neighborhood's City Councilman, Augusto Amador, was only slightly more sympathetic. "Sure I'm concerned about the impact on the lives of those affected," he said, "but this is a once-in-a-lifetime dream, an opportunity that should not be wasted."
The proposed sports, retail and entertainment development in Newark would include two stadiums, one for the Nets and one for the MetroStars and require the clearing of 20 blocks, city officials say. That came as a surprise to people who live in that gritty neighborhood of warehouses, vinyl-sided homes and parking lots. A quick walk from Pennsylvania Station, the office cluster of downtown Newark and the heavily Portuguese Ironbound section, the neighborhood has no official name, and until now, no political or economic clout. "This is no Beverly Hills, but it's not as run-down as they want people to believe," Mrs. Cruz said.
A few days before Christmas, a letter was sent to residents saying the area was "in need of redevelopment." Within two weeks, the Council, with one dissenting vote, had designated the area blighted. Only one resident, Hal Laessig, was allowed to speak at the public hearing, and he says he was cut off after three minutes. "This whole thing was jammed down our throats," said Mr. Laessig, an architect who, with his wife, runs a nonprofit arts center on Liberty Street. "They just wish we would disappear."
Neighborhood residents say they have stuck it out through three decades of social upheaval in Newark: the riots, the drug dealing, the muggings and the carjackings.
"All my friends who moved to the suburbs say I'm crazy to stay in Newark," said Theressa Silva, 67, who has lived on Columbia Street for 49 years. "But this is the house where my father made wine, the place where my roots are."
Mrs. Silva, who moved here from Spain with her family when she was a teen-ager, objects to the official suggestion that her neighborhood is a wreck. In the last decade, residents say, they have chased away the drug dealers and the car thieves, turned former flop houses into elegant homes and made the streets safer for artists who, fleeing Manhattan rents, settled into once-derelict factories.
Mayor James was so impressed he gave Mr. Laessig and his neighbors a community service award two years ago and invited them to share the stage during his State of the City address.
"He used to love us," Mr. Laessig said. "Now he hates us."
The project's developers may turn out to be more sympathetic. Michael Rowe, president of the Nets, said his team has no interest in destroying any community. "The whole reason we want to go into Newark is to help people, not to send them packing," he said.
Most Newark residents, business leaders and elected officials are wholeheartedly behind the project, which would offer unmistakable proof of the city's rebirth. Once a poster child for inner-city decay, Newark can finally use the word "renaissance" without prompting laughter. Last year the $180 million New Jersey Performing Arts Center opened, and the formerly moribund real estate market is showing signs of life.
If philanthropy is drawing the Nets to Newark, profit is behind the Devils' decision to abandon the Meadowlands for Hoboken. Mr. McMullen has long complained that the Continental arena has too few of the luxury boxes that team owners covet. The proposed stadium in Hoboken would have 100 corporate suites, up from 29, and include 3,000 seats in a private club overlooking the World Trade Center. The total price tag: $350 million.
In choosing Hoboken, Mr. McMullen is hoping to attract more New Yorkers, who would be able to reach the stadium by PATH train. Hoboken is also a hub for New Jersey Transit trains that serve a large swath of the state. The Meadowlands, on drained swampland in Secaucus, has no rail links.
The proposed arena would displace neither residents nor businesses, but finding people who like the idea is not easy. Even Hoboken's Mayor, Anthony Russo, greeted the proposal with carefully measured praise. "It would cost the taxpayers very little, and there would be all kinds of amenities, but we'll have to see how it's going to affect our quality of life," he said.
One of his biggest concerns is the proposed highway connection. So far, $20 million in Federal transportation funds have been earmarked for it, about a fifth of the total cost, Mr. Russo said. "Without the infrastructure, it wouldn't look as good."
But most of the city's advocacy groups are opposed to the stadium, even if a highway is built. With only a handful of access roads, they say, this one-square-mile town would be quickly overwhelmed by traffic before and after sporting events. "As it is you can't find parking if your life depended on it," said Ronald Hines, chairman of the Coalition for a Better Waterfront, which has fought for stricter development controls.
In the last two years, city officials have approved 3,000 apartments that would increase the housing stock by 20 percent. Those numbers frighten old-timers like Beverly Hans, who said she moved to Hoboken in 1966 to escape the congestion of New York.
"I liked Hoboken when it was falling apart, when people were ashamed to say they were from here," said Ms. Hans, 59, as she served customers at the Landmark Coffee shop on Hudson Street. "When all these new buildings fill up, it's going to be miserable."
Real estate prices have been reaching record highs as more and more refugees from Manhattan cross the Hudson. Shop owners along Washington Street say business has never been better, and on weekend nights, the sidewalks are thick with patrons of the town's more than 100 drinking establishments.
Liz Sterling, whose restaurant and pub, Oddfellows, faces the stadium site, grinned as she imagined the crush of post-game revelry. But then she stopped herself. "Oh yeah, but the parking would be hellish," she said.
Dean Ryan, 33, who was tending the restaurant's bar, agreed, saying that he resents paying $100 a month for a parking space. And then, he continued, there are cherished aspects of small town life that are harder to quantify.
"What I like about Hoboken is that you can count the bums on two hands, and you recognize all their faces," he said. "I wouldn't want that to change."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Opponents of a plan to raze homes for an arena in Newark held a news conference on Columbia Street Thursday. A proposed sports stadium in Hoboken would be built over tracks at the end of Washington Avenue, overlooking the World Trade Center. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS NEW JERSEY NETS (84%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOBOKEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HOCKEY, ICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; STADIUMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); SOCCER (69%); RIOTS (68%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (67%); LITIGATION (64%); AIRLINES (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); MOVIE THEATERS (53%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW; MCMULLEN, JOHN HAL LAESSIG (70%); JOHN MCMULLEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



453 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 21, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Should the West Save Russia?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Anatol Lieven (Op-Ed, March 17) criticizes the International Monetary Fund for making large loans to Russia in 1995 and 1996 while "turning a blind eye" to the economically ruinous policies employed by President Boris N. Yeltsin to secure his election victories. But he is mistaken to urge the I.M.F. to renew lending to Russia to prevent its international isolation.
Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov's agenda for survival is lacking even the pretense of structural reform. More significantly, the "sick central state" that Mr. Lieven hopes to keep alive is already a thinly disguised fiction. The national clans and and regional barons that vie for power agree on little beyond the need to keep the Russian people disenfranchised and the central government weak. 
 If it was wrong to subsidize Mr. Yeltsin's policy of buying his re-election with state money, how can it be right now to turn a blind eye to Mr. Primakov's cynical embrace of the status quo?
 
STEVEN SOLNICK
New York, March 18, 1999
 
The writer is an assistant professor of political science, Columbia University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SOLNICK, STEVEN; LIEVEN, ANATOL MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999



454 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Credit Offerings Expected During the Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week consists of today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and the sale of a two-year note on Wednesday. By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.50 percent and on a six-month bill, 4.62 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
AT&T, $5 billion to $6 billion of debt securities, A1/ AA-/---/. Merrill Lynch/Salomon Smith Barney.
Applied Power Inc., $175 million of senior subordinated notes due 2009. ---/---/---/. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Calpine Corp., $500 million of 4-part senior notes due 2004, 2006, 2009 and 2011. Ba2/BB/---/. Credit Suisse First Boston.
Imperial Tobacco Overseas, $350 million in guaranteed notes due 2009. ---/---/---/. Merrill Lynch.
Knight Ridder, $300 million in debentures due in 2029. A3/A/---/. Goldman, Sachs.
Pennzoil, $400 million in debt securities due 2009 and 2029. Baa2/BBB-/---/. Chase Securities.
Reckson Associates Realty Corp., $300 million due 2004 and 2009. ---/---/---/. Goldman, Sachs.
Universal Foods Corp., $150 million of debt securities due 2009. ---/---/---/. Goldman, Sachs.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX-EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
South Carolina State Highway, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TUESDAY
Clark County, S.D., $352 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
South Carolina State Highway, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Washington State, $300 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Fairfax County, Va., $296 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Anchorage, $84 million of general obligation and general purpose bonds. Prudential Securities.
Chicago, $230 million in debt securities. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Honolulu city and county, $470 million in debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
Hungary, $750 million of global debt securities due 2006. Baa2/BBB/---/. Amro Securities.
Kentucky Housing Corporation, $115 million of housing revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
Lee County, Fla., $140 million of water and sewer revenue bonds. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
New Jersey Transit Corporation, $170 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
New York State, $158 million of debt securities for community college. Paine Webber.
Ohio Building Authority, $115 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
Philadelphia Hospital, $60 million of debt securities for higher education, Jefferson health system. Salomon Smith Barney.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%); PW9 (FRA) (70%); ATU (NYSE) (70%); CPN (NYSE) (69%); SXT (NYSE) (66%); SLG (NYSE) (66%); MS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS332999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3599 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, NEC (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (65%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); ACTUANT CORP (70%); CALPINE CORP (69%); SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP (66%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (66%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (65%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%); SOUTH CAROLINA STATE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH CAROLINA STATE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DEBT NOTES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX LAW (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



455 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: New Portal To 'Rich Media' To Make Debut

BYLINE: By LISA NAPOLI 

 BODY:
Snap, an Internet company partly owned by NBC, will introduce a service today that is intended for users of the Internet who can connect at high speeds.
The previously announced portal site, which was code-named Cyclone and will now be called Snap, is intended to be a free guide and showcase for bandwidth-intensive applications, like video clips and audio files, by making them easier for users to find.
"This is the first shot in the next big battleground in the portal wars," said Edmond Sanctis, chief operating officer of Snap L.L.C.
As evidence of a growing need for the sort of service he is introducing, Mr. Sanctis said that about 10 of the top 50 search words on Snap have been for some sort of "rich media" -- material with animation, video or audio, like the increasingly popular MP3 music format.
Though the current market for high-speed Internet applications is small, it is seen by Internet content and access providers alike as an integral part of the on-line industry's future. At the end of last year, roughly 500,000 households had high-speed access, either through cable modems or telephone technology known as asymmetric digital subscriber lines, or A.D.S.L., though NBC said more than 14 million people have broadband access in the workplace.
Forrester Research predicts that by the year 2000, two million households in the United States will have faster connections at home. That number could be accelerated, analysts said, by deals like one made in January that provides high-speed connections to America Online subscribers who are Bell Atlantic customers for an additional fee.
Along with the official introduction of its new high-speed name, Snap will also announce today 20 alliances with content providers, distributors and advertisers. They include agreements with A & E Networks, the World Wrestling Federation, Tower Records, Pseudo Programs, and Inktomi. In deals with phone service providers like Bell Atlantic Internet Solutions, GTE Internetworking, Cable and Wireless, and 12 others, customized versions of the new guide will be available. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: SNAP LLC FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); AOL INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SNAP LLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB INTERNET & WWW (92%); BROADBAND (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MODEMS (78%); BANDWIDTH (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ANIMATION (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: NAPOLI, LISA EDMOND SANCTIS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



456 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
An Entertainment Weekly series aims to give marketers an association with popular culture.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
WHEN the Beatles came to America, they were dubbed the Fab Four. Thirty-five years later, an elaborate marketing and promotional program centered on popular culture is being called the Fab 400.
Has inflation really been that drastic since 1964? 
 The goal of the program is actually conflation, bringing together advertisers and retailers seeking to associate themselves with the growing American appetite for everything related to entertainment, from celebrity biographies to box-office results to awards shows.
"It's about connecting with consumers through movies, music, television and entertainers," said Michael J. Kelly, publisher at Entertainment Weekly magazine in New York, "looking at what has shaped popular culture."
The Fab 400 is a project of Entertainment Weekly, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner Inc., focusing on what its editors consider to be the popular culture milestones of the 1950's through 1990's. At the center of the program are four themed issues of the magazine, which will be supplemented by features on Entertainment Weekly sites on the World Wide Web (www.ew.com and www.fab400.com) and related television programs.
"We see more people tying into the passion for pop culture to reach the consumer," said Fred O. Nelson, vice president for marketing and promotion at Entertainment Weekly, particularly "the young, urban entertainment junkie who buys the CD the week it's released and sees the movie the weekend it comes out."
Publishing executives at the magazine assert that such a culture vulture is also on the cutting edge of consumerism -- likely to be, as Mr. Nelson put it, "the first to test-drive a new car, buy a new fashion, try a new fragrance."
One marketer agreeing with that assessment is the Ford Motor Company. Its Mercury brand of vehicles is a lead advertiser of the Fab 400, both in the pages of the magazine and as the sole sponsor of an on-line reader poll on the Web site.
"Entertainment is highly relevant to the Mercury target we call the individualists, the people who paddle their own canoe," said Ian Beavis, marketing communications manager for the Lincoln Mercury division of Ford in Irvine, Calif.
"This was the opposite of all the other millennium proposals that crossed our desks," he added, referring to programs from other magazines related to 20th-century achievement and history. "We didn't have one person not say it was a good idea."
(How far the Mercury marque makes it into the next millennium may be under discussion at Ford. USA Today reported on Friday that after Ford recently announced plans to discontinue selling most Mercury cars in Canada, automotive industry analysts suggested a similar fate awaited the brand in the United States. Ford said the Canadian cutback was not related to marketing plans for this country.)
The retail partner for the Fab 400 described the initial results of the program as "tremendous."
"There's a true pop culture synergy going on," said Christos Garkinos, vice president for marketing and product management in Los Angeles for the Virgin Entertainment Group unit of Virgin Group.
The Virgin Megastore chain is promoting merchandise that can be linked to the content of the four Fab 400 issues. For instance, in connection with the first issue, published last month and devoted to "the 100 greatest moments in television," there were special displays in the stores featuring tapes of television programs, music from television soundtracks and books devoted to television series like "The Twilight Zone."
The next issue of the Fab 400, due on May 28, will present "the 100 defining moments in music." The movie issue is planned for Sept. 24 and the one on "the 100 greatest entertainers" for Nov. 8. Each issue will have a rate base, the circulation guaranteed to advertisers, of 1.55 million, 8.8 percent higher than the regular Entertainment Weekly rate base of 1.425 million.
Mr. Nelson said some of the marketers in addition to Mercury that had agreed to run ads were the Disney Channel unit of the Walt Disney Company, the Hershey Foods Corporation, the MTV and VH1 cable networks owned by Viacom Inc., the Philip Morris Companies and Visa USA.
As for the television tie-ins with the Fab 400, there is a commitment from MTV for a music program in May, Mr. Nelson said, adding that there are discussions with the TNT cable network, which like Entertainment Weekly is part of Time Warner, for a show tied to the entertainers issue.
Hmmmmm. Perhaps the Fab Four will be part of the Fab 400? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); TWX (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY (MAGAZINE); FORD MOTOR CO TIME INC (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); TIME WARNER INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY (MAGAZINE); FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); MARKETING PLAN (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLISHING (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); RETAILERS (71%); WEB SITES (67%); MILLENNIUM (64%); TICKET SALES (56%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



457 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Novell to Offer Data-Privacy Technology For Internet

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
Seeking new markets beyond its mainstay corporate data network software, the Novell Corporation plans today to announce an Internet technology intended to give Web surfers greater control over their identities as they travel through cyberspace.
Novell hopes the technology, called Digital Me, will gain acceptance as a standard means of controlling identity on the World Wide Web, permitting network users to reveal or retain as much personal information as they wish. 
 At Novell's annual users group meeting today in Provo, Utah, the company plans to demonstrate a simple personal computer version of the Digital Me software, which acts as a digital safe-deposit box for personal information -- not only name, address, credit card numbers and such, but also possibly the telltale electronic codes that can identify a person's PC and be used to trace his or her Web travels.
When an individual visits a Web site, the Digital Me software would enable the user to control how much personal information the Web site collects from this digital deposit box.
Besides protecting privacy, such an approach might also make it possible for users to sell or barter their personal data for rebates, discounts or other special considerations from on-line merchants. Digital Me also permits computer users to store and exchange lists of information like Web site bookmarks or song lists, work groups or groups of friends.
As part of the announcement, Novell plans to say that the financial services company Citigroup and the credit card provider First USA will test new services based on the Digital Me software. Those companies also intend to support Novell's effort to turn the technology into an industry standard for on-line companies hoping to reassure customers that personal digital information will not be used in unauthorized ways.
In tackling electronic privacy, Novell, which is still the market leader in corporate network software but is feeling increasing pressure from the Microsoft Corporation, has embraced one of the Internet's lightning-rod issues.
As the Internet has become increasingly commercialized, companies have employed various electronic means to identify computer users, track their movements over the Web and employ so-called data mining techniques to create digital dossiers on individual consumers. In response, privacy-rights and consumer advocates have demanded that users be given more control over their on-line identities and personal data.
"This is a promising arena," said Marc Singer, co-author of "Net Worth: Shaping Markets When Customers Make the Rules" (Harvard Business School Press, 1999). "The challenge for Novell is finding the right business model. But the reason this can work is there is value for both the consumer and the merchant."
Digital Me is the first significant new technology from the company under Eric E. Schmidt, a former Sun Microsystems Inc. executive who became Novell's chief executive in March 1997 and was given the mandate of helping the office network software company remain relevant in the Internet age.
The technology itself is the brainchild of Michael Sheridan, a longtime software designer who was one of the three creators of Sun's Java programming language. Last May, Mr. Sheridan left Sun to join Mr. Schmidt at Novell as vice president involved in new technologies.
"Increasingly, corporate Web sites are Hoovering virtually everything you do on the Internet," Mr. Sheridan said, using industry slang for the Hoover vacuum-cleaner approach that data miners often take in gathering up all loose user information. "They are talking about 'sticky' Web sites and 'capturing eyeballs,' and I'm not sure I like this language."
Although Internet commerce companies are increasingly reliant on their ability to aim advertising at individual consumers, many Web surfers are not aware of the extent to which computerized matching technology is being used to keep tabs on them.
Novell plans initially to release the Digital Me technology in this year's third quarter in a form that would permit users to establish multiple on-line identities -- perhaps one for work, another for use with friends and a third for anonymous Web surfing.
Identity, according to Mr. Schmidt, is the Internet's next frontier. He cited an axiom set forth some years ago by the network innovator and entrepreneur Robert Metcalfe, positing that the value of a computer network can be expressed as the square of the number of devices connected to it. "Now we're in a new phase," Mr. Schmidt said. "Today, the value of the network is the square of the number of human relationships on the networks."
While Novell plans to sell and license Digital Me products and technology, the company has also decided to make the end-user, or client, portion of the software freely available under so-called open source terms, in the hope that other software developers will expand the market for Digital Me by building compatibility into software for E-mail, personal information management and Web navigation.
The industry's receptivity to Digital Me will be a crucial test of Mr. Schmidt's ability to expand Novell's business beyond its corporate networking niche, where its Netware flagship is under fire from Microsoft's Windows NT and the coming Windows 2000.
In the fiscal year before Mr. Schmidt arrived, Novell was profitable, earning $126 million on sales of $1.3 billion. But even then, sales of Netware were stagnant, and the company was widely perceived as a once-innovative player that had failed to adapt to the rise of the Internet.
After Mr. Schmidt oversaw several money-losing quarters of painful revamping, Novell returned to profitability in 1998. And last month, the company reported a fiscal first-quarter profit of $29 million, or 8 cents a diluted share, which was more than double its earnings in the quarter a year earlier.
There is a distinct sense of optimism at Novell's Provo campus these days, where word of delays in Microsoft's Windows 2000 networking software has given the embattled company a sense of reprieve. Certainly, Novell's share price has reflected Wall Street's renewed optimism in the company. The stock, which closed at $26.1875 last Friday, is up 44.5 percent this year. And the company's overall market value now stands at $8.8 billion, compared with barely $2 billion before Mr. Schmidt took over.
Digital Me's 47-year-old godfather, Mr. Sheridan, holds only a vice president's title. But as a member of Novell's eight-person executive committee, he is clearly a part of Mr. Schmidt's brain trust.
A 1974 graduate of Claremont College, where he studied economics and Russian history, Mr. Sheridan was initially drawn to the world of small publishing and became a protege of Grant Dahlstrom, whose Castle Press was an exemplar of the small publisher devoted to high-quality book printing.
Mr. Sheridan's work led to an interest in computerized typography. And after growing close to two well-known Stanford University computer scientists who specialized in the field, Chuck Bigelow and Donald Knuth, Mr. Sheridan was accepted for graduate studies at Stanford. Before he took his first course, though, he got sidetracked by his first start-up company, Imagen, one of the world's first laser printer companies, which was eventually sold. Later, his second Silicon Valley start-up, a typography software company, was bought by Sun Microsystems in 1988 and he went to work there.
After a number of development projects at Sun, where the main product line is high-powered computer work stations, Mr. Sheridan branched off with a development project for hand-held computers that eventually led to the Sun Java programming language.
But in 1993, long before Java reached the market, Mr. Sheridan had tired of what he perceived as political infighting over the project. He moved east to attend film school at American University in Washington, and later made a PBS documentary, "The Image of the Spirit," about a group of Russian religious iconographers.
By 1996, though, Mr. Schmidt persuaded him to return to Sun, which is based in Mountain View, Calif. Two years later, he followed Mr. Schmidt to Provo.
Mr. Sheridan continues to make his home in Oak Hill, Va., but spends most of his time in Provo supervising the small "skunk works" development laboratory that he has filled with people he has selected from throughout the company.
Until recently, the group's warren of offices was identified only by a sign that read "Documentation Center."
The sign now reads "NPI: New Product Initiatives," as the company has become more open about the Digital Me project and another half-dozen projects in the pipeline -- or, to use Mr. Schmidt's term, the Pipe. Most of those projects involve refinements to network directories, the computer-system equivalent of telephone books, which are a strength of Novell's Netware.
More than a label, the Pipe is an incentive program for soliciting innovative ideas from throughout the company and fostering an entrepreneurial, risk-taking corporate culture.
"Our problem," Mr. Sheridan said in a recent interview, "was, how do you use Novell's collective brain?" The answer: pay employees $2,000 for any idea for a new Novell project that a small review committee accepts.
Moreover, the employee, who can come from anywhere in the company, gets the opportunity to assemble a small team of people to begin the process of transforming the idea into a product.
"One of Eric's mantras is that 'It's O.K. to fail,' " Mr. Sheridan said of the Pipe, which was set up five months ago.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Sheridan, a vice president of Novell, helped develop the Digital Me technology, which is intended to help Net users control personal data. Mr. Sheridan is pictured near company headquarters in Provo, Utah. (Tim Kelly for The New York Times)(pg. C10)
 
Graph: "On the Rebound"
After languishing for years, Novell's stock has picked up. Graph tracks the company's daily closing stock price, since the beginning of the year. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Services)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (64%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); 

CITY: PROVO, UT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC; CITIGROUP INC; FIRST USA INC NOVELL INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (64%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (60%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NOVELL INC; CITIGROUP INC; FIRST USA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); PROVO, UT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; PRIVACY; COMPUTER SECURITY INTERNET & WWW (95%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (92%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (91%); INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); DATA MINING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); CREDIT CARDS (74%); RETAILERS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (65%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN ERIC E SCHMIDT (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



458 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: REVISIONS;
On Defining Race, When Only Thinking Makes It So

BYLINE: By Margo Jefferson 

 BODY:
One is not born, one becomes a white person, to adapt Simone de Beauvoir's famous dictum about becoming a woman. To become a woman or a black means to become part of a system (a system of beliefs, habits or laws) that generally rates you somewhere between mildly sub-par and thoroughly inferior. To become successfully male or white means that you should accept as right and natural a system that, subtly or blatantly, declares you the most intelligent, handsome and gifted of all people.
But let us make this more personal. Let us follow the art historian Maurice Berger into his mother's bedroom, where he sits as a small child, watching her perform her daily beauty ablutions. First, he writes in "White Lies" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1999), a memoir that is also first-rate social history and cultural criticism, "She would brush her jet-black hair, applying gobs of foul-smelling, viscous pomades in an effort to relax her tight, kinky curls into gentle waves." Then came moisturizer, then concealer, then foundation, "many shades lighter than her olive complexion, and a dusting of chalky face powder." 
 Mr. Berger's mother was a Sephardic Jew with a Hispanic-sounding maiden name. She had been slapped with ethnic slurs, and she had lost jobs (she was a singer) because she looked "too dark" or "too Jewish."
Oh, the mutabilities and treacheries of race! In 19th-century America, Mr. Berger observes, the law in many states would have declared people black who were much fairer than his mother, because of small traces of African blood. But: "By the 1920's, my dark, small grandfather could slip past rigid quotas and through U.S. Immigration as white on the basis of his word and the implied promise that he would strive to meet the immigrant ideal of an all-American whiteness."
All-American whiteness requires high maintenance, and if it isn't accompanied by social and economic privilege it will not yield maximum profits. What did Mrs. Berger's beauty ritual do for her? Her son writes: "It kept away the black and Hispanic neighbors, whom she loathed, and the white Jews who shopped in her favorite supermarkets and whom she openly castigated but secretly envied because they were not dark and because they were not poor. . . . She didn't look whiter -- she looked like a person who was concealing something under layers of greasepaint."
Whiteness should appear natural and inevitable, as the film historian Richard Dyer makes clear in "White" (Routledge, 1997), his terrifically intelligent examination of how the visual media, from painting to photography to film, represents whiteness as the esthetic ideal of the West.
First of all, he observes, "A person is deemed visibly white because of a quite complicated interaction of elements, of which flesh tones within the pink to beige range are only one: the shape of the nose, eyes and lips, the color and set of hair, even body shape may all be mobilized to determine someone's 'color.' "
Even that Teutonic goddess Marlene Dietrich needed help. Her mentor and director, Josef von Sternberg, narrowed what he labeled her "broad Slavic nose" by drawing a silver line down the center and lighting it from above. (About illusion, they were never wrong, the Old Masters.)
Film technology spent decades struggling mightily with the problem of how to turn all those pink and beige skin tones into whiter shades of pale. Not to mention blondness: to achieve that on camera, hair had to be backlighted and its strands arranged as loosely as possible, a film manual of 1920 advised directors and cinematographers. (An article in the March 22 issue of The New Yorker traces this obsession through the blazingly successful ad campaigns of the post-World War II hair dye industry. "If I've only one life, let me live it as a blonde!" cried millions of women, reaching for their bottles of Miss Clairol.)
Of course politics and pseudo-science made invaluable contributions. Mr. Dyer reminds us that the British spent much of the 19th century depicting the Irish as apelike rebels possessed of Negro blood. Immigration to America helped them shed these associations eventually. But Mr. Berger cites a race questionnaire given to a group of Canadian schoolchildren in the 1970's. Asked which groups they considered white, the children were divided about Spaniards, Portuguese and Italians, and hesitated before awarding a yes to the Greeks. Turks were given a resounding no, as were all Latin Americans, from Argentines to Cubans.
These are fine books. "White" is scholarly, densely researched and cleanly written, drawing on the history of Christianity and of colonialism, as well as painting, film and television. (Mr. Dyer's reading of that extravagantly popular television series "The Jewel in the Crown" is canny and unsentimental without being snide.) "White Lies" is small and intimate, joining memory, history, sociology, popular culture and journalism into an emotionally rich collage.
It matters that Mr. Dyer and Mr. Berger are both white, for as Mr. Berger writes: "Black people cannot help but evaluate the status of their blackness. White people, while vigilantly aware of the presence of blackness, are most often oblivious to the psychological and political weight of their own color." These books belong to a field, even a genre, known as Whiteness Studies, and its aim is to make such obliviousness impossible.
One could choose to be cynical about this new discipline, for reasons Mr. Dyer describes perfectly. First, there is the green-light problem: "Writing about whiteness gives white people the go-ahead to write and talk about what in any case we have always talked about: ourselves." Then comes the "me-too" complex, the sense that "amid all this (all this?) attention being given to nonwhite subjects, white people are being left out." There is good old guilt, which never fails to block emotion and incite narcissism. And I would add one thing more: the kind of born-again passion that excoriates with tone-deaf fervor all white people other than oneself.
There is another irony here, too, as several historians in the field have noted (David R. Roediger, Noel Ignatiev, Ruth Frankenberg and Karen Brodkin are among the best). For it was black writers and scholars who, more than a century ago, began a sustained analysis of what W. E. B. DuBois called the souls and Langston Hughes the ways, of white folk.
Will Whiteness Studies and narratives make these kinds of critical insights more a part of the intellectual and literary mainstream? Maybe. Probably. Almost certainly. But "White Lies" and "White" take intellectual and emotional risks, and the risks pay off. I'll take good work wherever I find it. And I believe that genuine self-scrutiny breeds a kind of honesty and courage that nothing else can.
Black people love to play the game of "Name That Negro," identifying all kinds of people -- movie stars, politicians (preferably Southern conservatives), musicians -- who are passing for white. The next time I play, I'll have to remind myself that white people are passing, too.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Pickford in 1917, backlighted to enhance her hair's blondness. (From "White" by Richard Dyer (Routledge, 1997))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: RACE HISTORY (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); RACE & RACISM (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%); FILM HISTORY (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); ART HISTORY (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); IMMIGRATION (62%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFERSON, MARGO; BERGER, MAURICE; DYER, RICHARD MAURICE BERGER (83%); RICHARD DYER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



459 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: Digital Polish for Factory Floors;
Software Simulations Lead to Better Assembly Lines

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Without question, this has been the decade in which software moved irrevocably into the industrial designer's world. In corporate offices across the country, engineers have been booting up programs that let them tinker, in three dimensions, with every permutation and combination of a product's design. Be the item as lowly as a dinner plate or as complex as a Boeing 777 jet, the goal has always been the same: save time and money in getting products to market.
It was just a matter of time before engineers would aim their computers at designing and refining the assembly lines on which those products are made. Apparently, that time has come. To wit: 
 *These days, before it approves a design for a new car or van, the Ford Motor Company checks the plan against computer models of its factory floor. Often, through subtle changes like relocating a few seams or shaving a few millimeters from the length of a fender, Ford can lop weeks off the time it takes to prepare an old plant to make a new car.
*The Dow Chemical Company now uses computers to simulate its methods for making plastics, running what-if scenarios to fine-tune the temperatures, pressures and rates at which it feeds in raw materials. Dow can now switch production among 15 different grades of plastics in minutes, with almost no wasted material. Before computer modeling, the process took two hours and yielded lots of useless byproducts.
*The International Business Machines Corporation, the world's largest computer maker and an early convert to factory-simulation software, has learned that its assembly lines can accommodate diverse products of similar size, as long as I.B.M tweaked its conveyor belts to deliver different parts and products to different work areas. One early result: with almost no retooling, I.B.M. expanded a plant in Charlotte, N.C., that had made only banking systems to include voice-messaging systems, bar-code readers and devices to program pacemakers.
"No one wants to build a new assembly line, if they can re-use the one they have," said Frank Lerchenmuller, an I.B.M. vice president for engineering technology solutions.
Of course not. But until the advent of software that can simulate assembly lines and the movements of the people who run them, no one really knew a good way to gauge what they could salvage from an older factory.
Now, with software from companies like Tecnomatix Technologies Inc. of Israel, Dassault Systemes of France and Aspen Technology in the United States, it is as feasible to design or remodel an entire plant as it is to reconfigure a car.
Production engineers in industries as diverse as chemicals, automobiles and aluminum smelting are manipulating virtual pictures of their plants and processes to see whether moving a clamp or adding a new ingredient will make existing equipment more productive, or will enable the same assembly line to skip freely from product to product. Some are even testing out a new virtual reality program that enables engineers wearing special goggles to detect problems by "walking through and around" a three-dimensional model of their factory designs.
The entire relationship between product design and production engineering is being turned on its ear. No longer is it enough for designers to create products that can be made and maintained efficiently. Increasingly, management is asking them whether the products can be manufactured with a minimum of retooling or work disruption -- and if not, whether it is worth giving up a particular feature to wring time and money from the manufacturing process.
"This software is letting manufacturing influence design, not just the other way around," said Steven A. Weiner, a Ford manager of computer-aided analytical engineering.
No one suggests that factory-simulation software is a cure-all. The programs can cost as much as $50,000 an engineer, when the cost of dedicated hardware is counted. And the technology has the same garbage-in-garbage-out problem that plagues all modeling software.
In theory, factory equipment works exactly as described by its manufacturer. In truth, as robots and other machines age, their movements become erratic.
Then there is the tinkering that workers often do to make a setup more efficient or comfortable -- rarely entering such schematic changes into the data base. Such variables can make computer models of a shop floor more approximate than precise.
"A production line can look fine in a model, yet a robotic hand might still have to jiggle a component to get it to align with another piece," said Emory Zimmers, director of Lehigh University's computer-integrated manufacturing laboratory.
Of course, there is little allure to the time-honored alternative to computer modeling -- setting up an actual assembly line and trouble-shooting it piece by piece.
"It's too risky and expensive to try new tools or methods if you have to build prototype hardware to test every change," said Rani Agarwal Finstad, director of manufacturing math-based systems for GM Powertrain, a manufacturer of car components that recently used simulation software to squeeze a month out of the process of programming robots to make new crankshafts.
The market for simulation software is growing, if slowly. Bernard Charles, Dassault's president, calculates that companies spent $300 million globally for software that simulates manufacturing operations last year. That is nothing compared with the $4 billion he estimates that industry spent on product-design software, but "there's a growing understanding that computer simulations can replace physical mockups of plants the same way they've replaced mockups of products," Mr. Charles said.
Apparently, I.B.M. agrees; it is marketing Dassault's factory-simulation software in the United States.
Robert G. Brown, president of Dassault's Deneb Robotics subsidiary in Troy, Mich., says his sales are growing 25 percent a year. He won't break out numbers now, but Deneb had annual sales of $22 million when Dassault bought it in 1997.
Tecnomatix of Israel, founded in 1983, muddled along with sales of maybe $35 million a year until a couple of years ago. Last year its revenue topped $60 million.
Testimonials to factory modeling are easy to find. The engineers who design the automation systems sold by Rockwell International have used simulation to design assembly lines that can handle different-sized items, enabling factories to produce small batches of products cost-effectively.
"We're headed to where modeling will let us design plants that can efficiently build a single-lot size of one item," said Randall L. Freeman, vice president for global marketing at Rockwell Automation.
Computer simulations of the tread-etching process has enabled tire makers like Goodyear Tire and Rubber to switch production from one type of tire to another in about an hour -- a process that previously took an entire work shift. And simulations have shown cookie companies like the Nabisco unit of RJR Nabisco Holdings how to use the same packaging machines to make five-pound bags for price clubs, one-pound bags for grocery stores and six-cookie packs for vending machines.
Various forces are driving the trend toward computer modeling. For one thing, computer technology has finally caught up with manufacturing pipe dreams. "Only recently have computers been powerful enough to quickly simulate what happens if you change something in a chemical reactor," said David E. Waite, Dow's manufacturing manager for information technology.
Economic and marketplace forces are at work, too. Companies that spent much of the 1990's paring ancillary product lines and work forces are now trimming capital investment, lest shareholders think they have lost their cost-cutting touch.
Consumers, meanwhile, have grown increasingly picky and expect to be able to choose among myriad colors, sizes and shapes for almost any product. That means that manufacturers must mix and match parts as the orders come in. And that, in turn, means having tools that can respond to electronic commands to switch paint wells, move clamps or change packaging and labels.
The Progressive Tool and Industries Company in Southfield, Mich., a designer of car assembly lines, recently used computer simulation to replace fixed-position clamps on a client's line with ones that slide; the clamps pivot out of one another's way, and can be programmed to react when parts of different sizes or shapes come down the line.
"It would be awfully risky to try this without simulating it first," said Donald A. Hemberg, Progressive Tool's general manager.
Global competition is also playing a role, encouraging manufacturers to replace old products with newer versions at an ever-more-rapid pace. "When you're facing a product life cycle of nanoseconds, you can't drive revenues just by lowering unit costs," said David Burdick, a vice president at the Gartner Group research firm in Stamford, Conn.
In some industries, even as new products arrive, older models remain in production. Here, too, computer modeling can help.
At the Freightliner Corporation, a truck maker in Portland, Ore., models can overlap for four years because "truckers are traditional, and a lot of them still want the old looks," said Volker Mueller, a Freightliner industrial engineer. But setting up assembly lines to handle a new model even as they produce older ones can be a nightmare.
Mr. Mueller says that Freightliner, which is about to introduce a new medium-sized truck, has modeled its entire assembly plant on Tecnomatix software. The truck maker is running what-if scenarios that Mr. Mueller expects will outline the best way to mix old and new models on the existing lines, and to map out a painless method for converting the lines to handle both.
Already, the modeling procedure has led to development of a conveyor belt that can sense which model is in production and instruct robotic arms to pluck the right hood or other part from a storage bin and have it ready to meet the truck chassis as it moves down the line.
Mr. Mueller said that Freightliner was now using work-flow simulation to figure how to keep trucks moving evenly from worker to worker, when some models need more handling than others -- putting 12 bolts into a wheel well, for example, instead of 4.
"If a worker lost time on a difficult truck, we want him to make it up on an easy one," Mr. Mueller said. "You don't want to wait until the line is set up to find out you could have prevented bottlenecks."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Turning Virtual Factories Into Real Ones"
Computer-aided design systems are being used to improve the design of assembly lines. Here is how the British auto maker Rover used software from Tecnomatix, above left, to design part of the factory in Oxford, England, above right, where it is building its new luxury car, the Rover 75.
 
1 To reduce costs, Rover wanted to use widely available factory equipment. It designed this work station, where sunroofs are installed, using an off-the-shelf robot.
 
2 To make engine assembly easier, the front bay was left open through much of the assembly process, a change from earlier models.
 
3 To test ergonomics, the software used intelligent mannequins that change color depending on the stresses on the body to find the best position for each worker. One result: the car is raised and lowered throughout the assembly process to put workers in the best position for each task. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); IBMC (BRU) (86%); IBM (NYSE) (86%); IBM (LSE) (86%); DOW (SWX) (83%); DOW (NYSE) (83%); DOW (LSE) (83%); 4850 (TSE) (83%); AZPN (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (59%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: TECNOMATIX TECHNOLOGIES INC; DASSAULT SYSTEMES; ASPEN TECHNOLOGY FORD MOTOR CO (92%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (86%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (83%); ASPEN TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); BOEING CO (57%); TECNOMATIX TECHNOLOGIES LTD (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TECNOMATIX TECHNOLOGIES INC; DASSAULT SYSTEMES; ASPEN TECHNOLOGY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (59%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; MODELS (SIMULATIONS) MODELING & SIMULATION (92%); CHEMICALS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (67%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); BARCODE EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



460 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Primakov Comes Calling

 BODY:
In the seven months that he has been Russian Prime Minister, Yevgeny Primakov has restored a measure of stability to his shaken nation. Under his cautious leadership, Russia has avoided the civil unrest and collapse of central authority that seemed possible in the chaotic days after the ruble was devalued last summer. But as Mr. Primakov heads to Washington this week, he remains a caretaker figure with a socialist tint who is mostly marking time until a new president, possibly Mr. Primakov himself, is elected next year.
Mr. Primakov, a wily but amiable veteran of the Soviet bureaucracy, has little governing latitude. He is caught between an ailing and erratic President, Boris Yeltsin, and a benighted and cranky Parliament dominated by Communists. Mr. Primakov has navigated these rapids by pursuing a foreign and domestic agenda that recalls Mikhail Gorbachev's early years in power, when he was still confident he could make socialism work and assert Soviet power abroad while diminishing tensions with the West. 
 In foreign affairs, his area of expertise, Mr. Primakov has pressed traditional Russian security interests in Europe, Asia and the Middle East more vigorously than Mr. Yeltsin's previous prime ministers, but has not so far fulfilled fears in Washington that he would oppose the United States at every turn. For the moment, at least, he is working with the Clinton Administration on several fronts to limit the spread of nuclear weapons and technology, one of the issues he will discuss with President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. The escalating crisis in Kosovo promises to test his tolerance for cooperation with the United States, especially if NATO takes military action against Serbia, a longtime Russian ally.
Mr. Primakov's economic program borrows heavily from failed Soviet formulas without entirely giving up on the market forces that have developed in Russia in recent years. This is hardly surprising, since the price for his confirmation by Parliament was that he place economic policy primarily in the hands of Yuri Maslyukov, a Communist retread.
The Government is still failing to collect taxes and operating with a budget plan that bears little relation to economic realities. Over time, these policies will further stunt development, and they have done nothing to reverse the economic decline that accelerated last fall. But they have eased the financial panic that threatened to engulf the country. Because Russia has not printed enough rubles to pay all its bills, inflation has not risen out of control. Many Russians are thankful for the relative calm, and relieved that Mr. Primakov is concerned about the inequities produced by Russia's unbridled, criminal-infested brand of capitalism.
In negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, and in discussions about how Russia will treat the creditors who made the mistake of lending to it last year, Mr. Primakov's Government has taken a surprisingly haughty attitude. It has delayed telling the creditors how they will be able to invest the small amount of money they are being allowed to recover and has demanded that the I.M.F. provide new loans without asking too many questions. President Clinton and the I.M.F. should resist this pressure until Mr. Primakov puts the economy back on a reform path and the I.M.F. is satisfied that its loans will not be diverted to private, off-shore bank accounts.
Mr. Primakov, like his predecessors, can never be sure whether Mr. Yeltsin will suddenly fire him. The political turmoil in Moscow over Mr. Yeltsin's effort to dismiss the country's top prosecutor, Yuri Skuratov, has added to the uncertainty. In such conditions, Mr. Primakov and his countrymen will be fortunate to get to the next presidential election without another change of cast in the Kremlin. Given the dangers of political instability in a nation with thousands of nuclear weapons, that may be the most Washington can hope for as well. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUDGETS (68%); TRENDS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (56%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (52%); 

PERSON: PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (77%); AL GORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



461 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Looking Right and Left for the Best Tax Cut Plan

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21

 BODY:
John R. Kasich, the irrepressible Ohio Congressman who is running for President on a theme of grass-roots empowerment, wants a 10 percent across-the-board cut in Federal income tax rates. "The more money people have in their pocket," he says, "the more they control their destiny."
Mr. Kasich is hardly unique in the field of Republican Presidential candidates. Dan Quayle, the former Vice President, is calling for a 30 percent tax cut for every American. Steve Forbes, the publisher, is once again advocating a flat tax. In fact, in one way or another, every potential Republican candidate has embraced the theme of tax relief. 
 But Mr. Kasich, unlike the others, is also the chairman of the House Budget Committee, with an influential role in fiscal policy. The budget plan he drafted along with other Republican leaders is scheduled for a House vote this week.
That blueprint sets aside at least $800 billion over a decade for tax reductions, which is enough to phase in the 10 percent tax cut. But Mr. Kasich has run into trouble selling his idea to the rest of the Republican Congress even though he has such prominent figures as Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, on his side.
Congressional Republicans of all stripes have made so many counterproposals that the search for just the right tax cut has begun to look like a rug auction. Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, now calls a 10 percent tax cut unlikely. And even Mr. Kasich concedes, "We're going to have a big debate."
Mr. Kasich's dilemma shows the strange situation in which the Republicans find themselves nearly two decades after Ronald Reagan swept into office with a call for a bold across-the-board tax cut. Once, a tax cut was a sure-fire Republican battle cry. But just when the new era of surpluses makes dreams of large tax cuts possible again, the fickle American public seems less interested than ever.
A private poll that the National Republican Congressional Committee distributed to House Republicans at a party retreat last month in Williamsburg, Va., found that 67 percent of Americans favored a 10 percent across-the-board tax cut. But the endorsement looked less overwhelming, Republicans familiar with the poll said, when people were asked to be more specific about how they wanted the Federal Government to use the budget surplus.
Given a list of options, 31 percent of those questioned wanted the money devoted to Social Security, 26 percent to reducing the national debt and only 18 percent wanted tax relief.
Similarly, in a New York Times/ CBS News Poll taken last month, 64 percent of all Americans said they wanted any surplus money devoted to Social Security. Only 12 percent said they wanted taxes to be cut.
Political strategists say that, in part, Americans are shying away from tax cuts because they still do not believe there really is a Federal surplus. And with the strong economy putting money in their pockets, voters are more focused on issues like retirement security.
"People simply don't believe the surplus is large enough to save Social Security and Medicare on the one hand and to have large across-the-board tax cuts on the other," said Mark Mellman, who is conducts polls for the Congressional Democratic leadership. "People are not fools."
Representative Joe Scarborough, a Florida Republican, argues that the falloff in support for sweeping tax relief is partly due to the economic expansion. "Republicans have always been dominated by supply siders who said, 'Cut taxes at every possible moment and it will cause the economy to boom,' " he said in an interview. "The lesson of 1995 and '96 has been if you cut Federal spending, markets respond, interest rates drop and the economy explodes that way, too."
At the Williamsburg retreat, Mr. Scarborough reminded his House colleagues of the 1996 Presidential campaign when Bob Dole made the promise of a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut a centerpiece of his losing race. Of the proposal for a 10 percent across-the-board tax cut, Mr. Scarborough said wryly, "Maybe it will work as well for us in '99 as it worked for Dole in '96."
Still, tax cuts remain important to the Republicans' core voters, and other Republican strategists argue that tax relief is not high on the broad public agenda, simply because their party has failed to talk about the issue enough. "As this debate goes on," said Jim McLaughlin, a Republican pollster, "and the more people think there's a surplus out there -- it will help the tax cut argument."
Representative Thomas M. Davis 3d of Virginia, the new head of the House Republicans' re-election effort, argues that Mr. Dole never gave more than glancing support to his plan for an across-the-board tax cut. "He talked about it for a month and then abandoned it," Mr. Davis said.
He points instead to the example of Gov. James S. Gilmore 3d of Virginia, who won in 1997 by pledging to eliminate the unpopular personal property tax on cars.
So to fire up the public, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, and lobbying groups like the National Federation of Independent Business and the National Association of Manufacturers have begun a series of town meetings across the country to try to stoke the demand for tax relief.
But Mr. Armey is not promoting any particular tax-relief plan because the debate is still running high in Republican circles over what kind of tax cuts will prove politically appealing.
Business groups favor measures like a reduction in the capital gains tax. Some Republicans want to eliminate the estate tax.
Social conservatives want to eliminate the so-called marriage penalty, which results in many married couples paying more in taxes than they would if they were single. Representative Bob Riley, an Alabama Republican, says, "It's just an abomination to me that we would penalize something that we pay a tremendous amount of lip service to -- families and family values."
Other Republicans have come to believe that the kind of targeted tax credit approach that President Clinton has made his own -- proposing tax credits for particular needs like child care, or long-term health care, or education -- might have greater resonance. In his budget proposal, Mr. Clinton called for $4.1 billion in tightly targeted tax credits in fiscal 2000 and $32.6 billion over five years.
"People don't believe they get the bang for the buck with 10 percent, the way they do when we personalize tax reduction," said Representative Jennifer Dunn, a Washington Republican.
So Ms. Dunn is co-sponsor of a tax cut package she calls the "lifetime tax relief act" because it includes a potpourri of things like the elimination of the marriage tax, the elimination of the estate tax, and an increase of the personal exemption to provide tax relief for single people, too. Representative Nancy L. Johnson, a Connecticut Republican, has proposed her own tax cut package that moderates have rallied around.
Mr. Kasich argues that such an approach leaves broad swaths of Americans without any benefit. "We've done targeted tax cuts in the past few years," he said, "but there were too many people who were left out."
He is still pushing hard for his own proposal. "You ought to be reducing taxes whether times are good or bad," he said last Thursday as he headed out for another weekend on the campaign trail. "We're going to have a fight inside our party," he said. "That's O.K."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2262 (90%); 106 H.R. 3 10 PERCENT TAX CUT ACT (90%); 106 H.R.8 DEATH TAX ELIMINATION ACT (90%); 106 H.R. 2019 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAX RELIEF (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON JOHN KASICH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); TRENT LOTT (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



462 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2246 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Gains Help Keep Economy on a Ro ll

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: DES MOINES

 BODY:
At the Maytag Corporation factory in nearby Newton, four young people stand around a large lazy susan, as if it were a coffee bar, assembling washing-machine doors. As the plastic door molds circle slowly by, each worker adds one metal part, and every 37 seconds a finished door comes off the revolving table.
The lazy-susan system is a triumph of productivity. The same four workers produce 90 more doors every hour than they used to, roughly a 15 percent improvement. Until last fall, each had assembled an entire door, one after another, in a much slower process. "I had to keep a full set of parts at every station," said Diana Brown, who now delivers them only to the central system. 
 Ms. Brown's pay, $18 an hour after 23 years at the plant, is nearly double that of her younger colleagues, and at 48 she sees herself as their "mother hen." Seniority indeed sets her apart. New hires now must start below union scale, marching to full pay through semiannual raises that show up in the nation's pay statistics, but without squeezing Maytag's profit. As veterans like Ms. Brown retire, the new hires represent a larger share of the plant's 2,800 workers. The shift in the work force holds down the average wage, and Maytag's total labor costs.
"We are flattening our labor costs," said Leonard A. Hadley, chairman of Maytag. "It is problematic whether we can flatten labor costs over the long term. But short term, we are."
Maytag's experiences, like those of many corporations, help to explain the central puzzle of today's economy. Eight years into the current expansion, labor shortages and rising wages should be raising the annual inflation rate or shrinking profits. Yet neither is happening.
The annual inflation rate is only 1.6 percent, in sharp contrast to the last growth cycle, in the 1980's, when the rise in the Consumer Price Index reached 4.6 percent a year.
Nor are profits suffering noticeably, despite somewhat slower gains recently. By past standards, profits should be hurting, caught as they are between rising pay and stagnant prices. But many corporations have come up with numerous ways to dodge the bullet and confound the widely held view that inflation is an inevitable result of sustained prosperity.
How companies are managing this balancing act is abundantly evident here in central Iowa, not only at Maytag, which is based in Newton, but at two giant companies in Des Moines: the Principal Financial Group, which manages retirement plans for 43,000 companies, among other businesses, and Hy-Vee Food Stores Inc., a Midwestern supermarket chain with 179 stores. The tactics of these profitable companies -- a manufacturer, a financial services firm and a retailer -- are essentially the tactics of corporate America.
Productivity improvements play a growing role at all three companies in squeezing out more revenue for each hour of pay, and thus more profit. The lazy susan is just one of many examples that executives at the three companies pointed to during tours of their operations -- changes that have raised the annual rate of improvement in the nation's productivity -- the output of goods and services per worker -- to 2 percent since 1995 from 1 percent in the early 90's. Other circumstances have also helped. Low interest rates, for example, saved Hy-Vee $1 million last year in debt payments.
The heart of the matter, however, lies in two gradual changes in behavior that have allowed corporations to forgo price increases in the face of intense global competition, yet raise wages and still make healthy profits. Normally by now, the Federal Reserve, fearing higher inflation, would have pushed up interest rates to slow the economy. It has not done so.
One key change is the increased corporate flexibility in manipulating labor costs. Maytag's below-scale starting wage is an example. Principal and Hy-Vee engage in another popular practice: "accordion" scheduling, the use of temporary workers and part-timers whose wages are up but whose hours are adjusted day to day -- and even in the middle of a shift -- so that an operation is never overstaffed.
"We call Manpower at 5 P.M. and have people in the next morning for any number of tasks," said Max F. Johnson, vice president for human resources at Principal, which since 1996 has nearly doubled the use of temporary help, such as telephone workers, computer operators, clerks and the like. "We are matching work to demand much more closely and less expensively."
 
Relocating Work And Other Strategies
Shifting work to lower-cost cities, a practice that has been popular for decades among manufacturers, is now common among service companies, too. Principal, for instance, shifts work, through computer transmissions, to offices in smaller cities like Waterloo and Ottumwa, Iowa, where wages are 5 to 10 percent lower than in Des Moines. Today, 36 percent of Principal's 4,000 employees in the pension division work outside Des Moines, up from 26 percent in 1993.
"Workers themselves are much less likely to resist such shifts," said Alan Krueger, a Princeton labor economist. "They no longer insist on maintaining wage scales across a company's various operations, or even see the need to do so. And when that breaks down, so does the pressure on prices that once came from across-the-board raises."
The other key means of relieving pressure on prices is through the introduction of fancier products and services. Because the Government lists these as new items rather than higher-priced variations of existing ones, they are not counted as price increases in the Consumer Price Index. If they were, the annual inflation rate, now 1.6 percent, would be over 3 percent, a study by Government economists found.
The washing-machine doors at the Maytag plant are for use in one of these new, upscale products -- the Neptune, a front-loading, spin-action clothes washer that Maytag says removes stains better than other machines. The Neptune's price tag of $1,099 is $450 above Maytag's most expensive existing washer, and a big chunk of the price difference covers extra profit, not added cost.
"We have made a conscious effort to tilt the sales mix toward our premium brands," Mr. Hadley said. "They were 70 percent of our major appliance sales in 1998, up from 50 percent a decade ago. The goal is to keep driving up prices and profit margins with new features."
 Cynthia Thompson, in a white chef's coat, is a soldier in this universal campaign. To find her in Hy-Vee's vast, softly lighted supermarket in West Des Moines, circle the outer perimeter where all the high-margin items are on display.
Go past the flower shop, the pharmacy, the cosmetics, the greeting card rack (grown to 140 feet in length from 12 in most stores a decade ago), the T-shirts, the Parisian and Italian white breads, the tortilla wrapped sandwiches, the special cuts of meat, the New York delicatessen salads (low cholesterol displayed in heart-shaped platters), the chilled and packaged dinners (a favorite is meatloaf with three side dishes), the salad bar, the Chinese food counter, the Italian takeout.
There, at the Italian Express station, Ms. Thompson, 37, who trained for a decade at Pizza Hut, presides over three full-timers and five part-timers -- roughly the ratio for all of Hy-Vee's 42,000 workers. Her part-timers, teen-agers mostly, work accordion schedules, adjusting their hours to store traffic "to keep sales revenue per worker pretty steady," Ms. Thompson said, echoing the corporate strategy.
She and a friend who followed her from Pizza Hut handle the lunch traffic, their three biggest sellers being pepperoni, cheese and Italian sausage pizzas at $7.99 each. The lunch business has risen to $700 a day from $500 a few months ago, but Ms. Thompson has not added staff. She and her friend work a little harder, she said, to get the orders out -- an extra effort that more than covers Ms. Thompson's recent 4 percent raise to well above $400 a week.
Dinner-hour sales are mostly packaged meals taken home and heated -- meat lasagna for four ($12.99), pizzas ($2.25 to $10.99) and pastas ($4 to $6). "We try not to run up the cost by making labor-intensive foods," she said, ruling out, for example, pasta shells stuffed with several types of cheese.
The economics are straightforward. All the high-end items around the store's perimeter yield a margin of 30 to 70 cents above the cost of ingredients for each dollar of sales versus 20 to 30 cents for standard supermarket fare, the company says. Apply an overhead charge calculated at 24 cents per dollar of sales at the West Des Moines store and upscale merchandise becomes essential to profitability.
 
Payroll Grows But Profits Grow Faster
Last year, Hy-Vee's payroll, which was pushed up in part by a 21 percent increase in the minimum wage in 1997, rose at a faster rate than sales. But operating profits rose anyway. The reason was high-end merchandise. "Many of our stores are getting 25 percent of their revenues from these specialty items, and that is more than double what it was 10 years ago," said Ronald D. Pearson, chairman of Hy-Vee.
"People are doing well and trading up," he said. "They are buying ground beef with 90 percent lean meat at $2.50 a pound and not the 70 percent ground beef at $1 a pound that was popular five years ago. We hardly stock the 70 percent beef anymore."
But that raises some uncertainties. A sinking economy would reverse that trend, Mr. Pearson acknowledged, making those high-margin items a lot harder to sell.
 Whatever the outlook, corporate America is not letting up in its ingenious strategies for holding down labor costs. Just watch John E. Beal in action at Principal Financial Group on a recent afternoon. A Blue Cross employee -- Principal manages Blue Cross's 401 (k) plan -- has called to apply for a $5,000 loan against his savings, and Mr. Beal, taking the call, suggests that the caller would get his loan more quickly if he used the push buttons on his phone rather than a live operator.
Tactfully, Mr. Beal walks the caller through Principal's "Teletouch" system, watching the progress on his computer screen. Midway through, the caller makes a mistake and Mr. Beal helps him undo the damage. "He had pressed the button for a biweekly repayment plan and he wanted bimonthly," Mr. Beal said.
Finally, all the right buttons are pressed and the loan application flows into Principal's computers, which automatically print out the necessary papers for mailing. Otherwise Mr. Beal would have had to handle the paperwork, at more cost.
The more difficult requests that come into Principal's call center in Des Moines are routed to people like Mr. Beal, whose college diploma hangs on a cloth partition wall near his computer. He earns $30,000 -- up 3.5 percent from his starting salary 13 months ago. New computer programs are gradually reducing the need for skilled operators like him. But for now, he pays for his own raises, in effect, by helping to herd toward automation the 2.9 million people in retirement plans managed by Principal.
The economics, as Principal lays them out, are clear. Human intervention, by Mr. Beal or any operator, costs $5.90 a call. Transactions that clients complete on their own by touch-tone phone are 45 cents, while those performed on the Internet come to 14 cents a hit. That is the big push now, switching the clientele to the Internet, which keeps a lid on the number of employees. "I had projected 250 people in our call centers by now," said Michael J. Daugherty, assistant director of pension administration. "Teletouch and the Internet have held the number to 175."
More than 250 other employees, however, process paperwork that arrives by mail, including lists of monthly 401 (k) contributions that Principal's corporate clients have collected from their workers. The lists are scanned into Principal's computers and adjusted at various computer stations. To bypass this labor-intensive process, Principal has shifted 30,000 companies to Internet filing since mid-1997 and has notified some companies of a surcharge until they make the switch.
"We want to service the small company," said Daniel J. Houston, a Principal vice president, "but we need them to deliver electronically."
 
Of Efficiencies And Portfolios
How many more labor-saving efficiencies are still out there? Ask that of David McConnaughey, a Maytag vice president, and the answer comes back, intensely, "We have just begun." The executives at Hy-Vee and Principal are also believers. But sales are more problematic. And profits depend on them, too.
Prosperity enters here. If the economy slows, demand will fall for fancier, more profitable Maytag washing machines or Hy-Vee's high-end merchandise. Principal is similarly at risk; it charges clients a percentage of the pension money in their plans. That percentage has remained below 2 percent since 1995.
But if pricing is unchanged, revenue and profit are not. Both have risen as the total pension money managed by Principal has grown -- through the monthly contributions and the rising stock market. Principal had 42 percent of the pension money invested in stocks late last year, up from 20 percent in 1994. A falling market would be a blow.
But in the era of Dow 10,000, stocks are not falling. Prosperity still reigns, and companies across America keep their balance -- at least for now -- between rising wages and steady prices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Centralized assembly of its appliances lifted productivity by 15 percent at a Maytag plant near Des Moines. Customers of the Hy-Vee supermarket in West Des Moines have switched to costlier ground beef. (Photographs by Rodney White for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Graphs: "Tale of Two Decades"
The current economic expansion, which began in early 1991, has already run longer than the 1980's growth cycle that started in late 1982. But unlike the late 1980's, inflation remains tame today. Labor markets are tighter now, and wages are rising, yet inflation has diminished. Graph tracks the unemployment rate, the average weekly earnings for all workers in 1982 dollars, and the year-over-year change in the Consumer Price index, from 1982 through 1990, and from 1991 through 1998. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics: Haver Analytics)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (95%); PFG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (60%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (51%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (71%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MAYTAG CORP WHIRLPOOL CORP (95%); HY-VEE INC (60%); PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP INC (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAYTAG CORP BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (71%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS EMPLOYMENT (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (86%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); RELOCATIONS (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); RETAILERS (66%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (62%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS LEONARD A HADLEY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



463 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: A Calm Voice for a Combative Mayor;
Lhota Provides a Steadying Influence as a Deputy to Giuliani

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Even by City Hall standards, the battle was exceptionally fierce: the City Council had defied Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani by overhauling the rules on homeless shelters, and he had vowed to retaliate by opening a shelter in the Brooklyn district of Councilman Stephen DiBrienza, who had sponsored the legislation. Mayoral aides were leveling threats, Council members were staging protests and a solution seemed all but impossible.
So Mr. DiBrienza could scarcely believe it when Joseph J. Lhota, the new Deputy Mayor for Operations, invited him to a friendly negotiating session. Mr. Lhota then did something even more unusual for the Giuliani administration: he withdrew the threat to open a shelter and agreed to a major policy change that would make the new rules easier to enforce. 
 While the decision to back down was almost certainly Mr. Giuliani's -- his plan to open a shelter in Mr. DiBrienza's district had created a public relations nightmare, and besides, there was little he could have done legally to block the homeless legislation -- it was Mr. Lhota who steered the administration out of the imbroglio.
"It was absolutely atypical of how that administration operates," Mr. DiBrienza said. "There was no posturing. Joe was very down to earth, and we solved the problem in a direct, honest way."
Since Mr. Giuliani named him Deputy Mayor last year, Mr. Lhota, 44, has stood out as the most easygoing member of the Mayor's tightly knit, tightly wound inner circle. While he can bluster as expertly as any other Giuliani aide, Mr. Lhota is better known for what sets him apart: his willingness to talk openly and his insouciant humor, which make him one of the quirkiest personalities in City Hall.
"Joe strongly believes in the Mayor's political agenda, but he has a bit more softness than some of the rest of us," said John S. Dyson, who brought Mr. Lhota into the administration as his chief of staff when he was the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development in 1993. "That makes him a steadying influence around City Hall."
At the same time, colleagues say, Mr. Lhota has an unparalleled knowledge of city government and an efficient approach that are especially important now that the Mayor is frequently out of town, leaving Mr. Lhota in charge. As Mr. Giuliani and some of his top aides, like Cristyne F. Lategano, his communications director, focus on raising the Mayor's state and national profile, it falls to Mr. Lhota to keep the government running smoothly.
"Anything with budget implications, policy implications, crisis implications, goes through my office," Mr. Lhota said. "I schedule meetings all day long, and I try to create gaps for the crises."
Mr. Lhota's ascension to the No. 2 job in City Hall was somewhat surprising, because unlike most of the Mayor's closest advisers, he is neither a lawyer nor a longtime friend of Mr. Giuliani. His wife of 11 years, Tamra Roberts Lhota, was actually the first to jump on the Giuliani bandwagon, raising money for his 1989 mayoral campaign.
Mr. Lhota, who had built a career as an investment banker, said he became involved by "hanging around" and advising the campaign on Wall Street issues in 1989 and '93. The couple proved unfailingly loyal to Mr. Giuliani, and he rewarded Mr. Lhota by hiring him three months into his administration, as Mr. Dyson's chief of staff. He rose quickly, becoming Commissioner of the Department of Finance in 1994 and Mr. Giuliani's budget director in 1995.
"With all of his background, he knows city government better than any other official," Mr. Giuliani said in an interview, explaining why he chose Mr. Lhota to be a deputy mayor. "And Joe has a sense of humor, which is enormously important in a job where you deal with 100 people a day, at least 25 of whom are angry or feeling abused."
In an administration not exactly known for its whimsy, Mr. Lhota, a man with a booming voice and a barrel shape, refuses to take himself or his position too seriously. He makes faces at news conferences, accepts calls from just about anyone, and occasionally cracks wise in a way that his more guarded colleagues might think inappropriate -- or even risky.
After learning that a reporter had interviewed one of his college friends, Mr. Lhota cheerfully told how they met: he threw up on the man's shoes at a party. "He didn't tell you that, did he?" he asked.
On a typical day, Mr. Lhota reads piles of memos from city commissioners and fields calls from elected officials, advocates and reporters, usually in his office on the first floor of City Hall. And when Mr. Giuliani leaves town -- as he has done at least eight times in the last month -- Mr. Lhota fills in as chief executive.
But while the City Charter mandates that the Deputy Mayor for Operations "perform all functions, powers or duties of the Mayor" when the Mayor is unavailable, Mr. Lhota said that his only additional duty in Mr. Giuliani's absence would be coordinating the city response to an emergency.
"It's not like this Mayor doesn't stay plugged in," he said in an hourlong interview interrupted by five phones calls, including one from Mr. Giuliani.
Coming in during the Mayor's second term -- with the city benefiting from a strong economy, a steep drop in crime and a perception that life here has improved -- Mr. Lhota has the challenge of making sure that Mr. Giuliani's promises are fulfilled and that his attention-grabbing policies remain firmly in place as the Mayor begins looking for a new job.
That is a subtler role than those of his two predecessors. Mr. Giuliani's first Deputy Mayor for Operations, Peter J. Powers, helped the Mayor reorganize city agencies and shape his early agenda.
And Randy M. Mastro, a former prosecutor who held the job from 1996 to 1998, helped execute the quality-of-life initiatives that defined Mr. Giuliani's first term.
It is Mr. Lhota's responsibility, for example, to see that the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island closes by the end of 2001 -- a job that requires meeting frequently with sanitation officials, choosing companies to haul the garbage away and worrying about the cost and political ramifications of the controversial project.
He also negotiates deals like the one with Mr. DiBrienza, in which the administration agreed to stop forcing homeless families to sleep on the floor of the city's emergency assistance office.
In return, the Council agreed to modify a provision of its homeless services law that limited the number of beds in new shelters to 200. But while Mr. Lhota has gained a reputation as a conciliator, he can be every bit as undiplomatic as his boss.
Last fall, for example, Mr. Lhota waited until the last minute to tell Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey about the city's plan to send thousands of tons of garbage to that state. He apologized after Mrs. Whitman fired off a news release with the headline "Whitman to New York's Garbage Plan: Drop Dead."
Mr. Lhota was also accused of making a political gaffe last winter, when he called several Wall Street firms to discourage their employees from attending the annual fund-raising dinner for the Citizens Budget Commission, a private watchdog group that has been critical of the Giuliani administration.
Mr. Lhota insists that he called the firms only to inform them that Mr. Giuliani and his aides would not be attending the dinner. But several people who received the calls said at the time that they perceived them as pressure not to support the group.
Critics of the Giuliani administration point to the incident as proof that Mr. Lhota can be a heavy-handed bully, and he does not exactly duck that description.
In particular, he said that he cannot help being "hotheaded" when people criticize the policies of a mayor he calls "the most energetic and intelligent person I've ever had the chance to work for."
"There is nothing that gets me more charged up than when people spread false information about the Mayor and his policies," he said. "I am irreverent when I need to be."
Mr. Lhota seems especially fond of displaying that irreverence in letters. When Gene Russianoff, a senior attorney at the New York Public Interest Research Group, wrote a letter criticizing the Mayor's charter revision commission last fall, Mr. Lhota fired back, "I encourage you to apprehend your hubris and rethink your definition of democracy."
Yet unlike his boss, Mr. Lhota seems well liked by many of the people he impugns. Douglas A. Criscitello, director of the city's Independent Budget Office, said Mr. Lhota had always treated the agency with respect, even though Mr. Giuliani had assailed it as a waste of taxpayer dollars. "He is able to tout the party line," Mr. Criscitello said, "yet provide some type of insight as to what the true reasoning behind a decision was."
Mr. Lhota, whose name is Czechoslovakian, is the son of a New York City police lieutenant and the grandson of a cabdriver. He grew up on Long Island and studied accounting at Georgetown University, where classmates remember him as studious but funny.
He and his wife live in a brownstone in Brooklyn Heights with their daughter, Kathryn, 7. The couple have a summer house on Nantucket, but they have spent only one week there since they bought it in 1994, Mr. Lhota said. His preferred social activity, he said, is drinking Scotch and smoking cigars with college friends.
As for Mr. Lhota's relationship with his boss, colleagues say he is not as close to the Mayor as Mr. Powers, who is one of Mr. Giuliani's oldest friends, or Mr. Mastro, who prosecuted cases with Mr. Giuliani in the United States Attorney's office. Asked whether he counted Mr. Giuliani among his close friends, Mr. Lhota paused for several moments.
"I'm not an attorney, I'm not a prosecutor, I didn't go to high school with the Mayor," he said. "But the Mayor has an ideal of what the city should be, and I share that ideal."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph J. Lhota, standing by the window at a news conference last month, has been the most easygoing member of the Mayor's inner circle. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Life meets art: Joseph J. Lhota, center, on the set of "Spin City," a series with Michael J. Fox, left, as a deputy to the Mayor, Barry Bostwick. (ABC)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MAYORS; DEPUTY MAYORS CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); MAYORS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); POLITICS (62%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; LHOTA, JOSEPH J (DEPUTY MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



464 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Is Prepared to Reduce Oil Production to Raise Prices

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 21

 BODY:
As they slipped out of their black limousines into luxury hotels dotting the contours of Vienna's graceful Stadtpark tonight, officials of OPEC, the nearly moribund oil cartel, were stirring with new life, ready to jolt oil prices back up.
If all goes well at an emergency meeting set for Tuesday here, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, in partnership with major oil producers like Mexico and Norway who are not members of the group, will take more than 2 million barrels of oil a day out of world markets, starting in April. 
 It would mark the first time in 13 years that the cartel has taken such a drastic measure, largely because of the pressing needs of the largest producer, Saudi Arabia, and other producing countries to generate more revenue, experts say.
Anticipation of the move -- which has emerged as OPEC officials formulated it in secret and in public talks in Riyadh, The Hague, Dubai, London and other places in the last four weeks -- has already pushed prices up 20 percent, bringing the American benchmark brand known as West Texas Intermediate to $15 a barrel.
This has halted, for a while at least, the steady fall in prices that devastated the world energy industry in the last year.
Part of the impact reflects optimism in the oil industry that salvation is on the way. In the last decade, globalization, competition from new oil suppliers and disputes within OPEC combined to send prices into a seemingly endless tumble to a point where gasoline and other fuel prices today are, in inflation-adjusted terms, the lowest since the end of the World War II.
Now, a confluence of new circumstances may help the cartel reverse some of those trends. Among other things, the Asian economic crisis, which erased more than 1.5 million barrels a day in demand for oil, is stabilizing.
Iraqi oil production is also stabilizing. In 1998 Iraq more than doubled its production to 2.5 million barrels a day as the United Nations allowed it to sell more oil under its oil-for-food sanctions regime. That ceiling cannot increase much more now unless the sanctions are removed altogether -- something the United States would not allow.
Above all, lower prices have piled mountains of debt onto the economies of many oil-producing countries, cut their Government budgets down to a point of endangering social and political cohesion, and ravaged oil company profits worldwide -- enough to create a consensus for OPEC discipline and worldwide cooperation.
"The worst seems to be over," said Robert Mabro, director of the Oxford University Institute for Energy Studies in England. "They have to act because low prices are deeply hurting producing countries and oil companies. Hard currency revenues are shrinking dangerously in places like Nigeria, Venezuela, Russia, Mexico. Multinational oil companies have cut costs to the bone, laid off thousands of people and seen their profits evaporate. Everybody wants a solution."
Underlying the seriousness of the action, Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil producer and most important OPEC member, has agreed to take the biggest cut, shutting down half a million barrels of oil a day of its production starting in April. "As far as we are concerned, it's a done deal," said a senior Saudi official in Riyadh, who asked not to be identified. "We are informing customers right now that deliveries will be cut."
Iran, Kuwait, Venezuela, Algeria, Libya, Indonesia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Indonesia are joining in with cuts that total about 1.5 million barrels a day. Norway and Mexico, major oil producers who are not members of OPEC, intend to cut their production by a combined 350,000 barrels daily.
This is a remarkable show of solidarity unseen since 1986, when a similar collapse in prices led producers to drastic and coordinated production cuts.
While still frowning on any concerted action to control prices of such a vital commodity, the United States appears not to object to stronger prices, which would also help the American oil industry. It too has been deeply hurt by the price collapse, resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs.
"We feel that lower oil prices are good for consumers, but we recognize they can have a negative impact domestically and on some of our friends like Venezuela and Mexico," Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said in a telephone conversation from Washington on Friday. "So far, OPEC's response has been responsible and restrained."
It is Saudi Arabia, the cartel's undisputed master and America's staunch Persian Gulf ally, that holds the fate of the accord in hand. As owner of the world's largest petroleum reserve, it had two ways to go.
"They could go back, as they have done now, revert to their old standard of constraining production and hope that prices will go up," said Anthony Miles, senior vice president at the San Francisco office of the Boston Consulting Group. "Or they can swing all the way, pumping as much oil as possible, and the guys with the most oil will win."
It will take some months to determine whether OPEC's new discipline will hold. The big deterrent to cheating is Saudi Arabia's unique ability to flood the market.
With prolific oil fields, Mr. Miles and other experts point out, the desert kingdom can pump more than 10 million barrels a day at minimal extraction costs of $1 a barrel. This flooding would bring prices down to as low as $5 a barrel in a few months. Few oil-producing countries can take this possibility lightly. In the long run, it would put many producers out of business in the United States, the Caspian Sea, Russia and the prolific North Sea fields shared by Norway and Britain, where production costs range from $5 to $10 a barrel.
The Saudis' need to produce higher revenues has become compelling. Piling one budget deficit over another in the last decade, Saudi Arabia has accumulated a debt of $130 billion, the equivalent of its entire annual economic output.
As a result, after tenaciously clinging to a level of production set since 1990 at 8 million barrels a day, Saudi Arabia for the first time has offered to lower it to 7.5 million barrels. This is a fundamental change in policy.
"The 8 million level was practically untouchable -- it had become an icon-hobbling policy," said Amy Myers Jaffe, a senior oil analyst at the Baker Institute at Rice University in Houston. "The willingness to abandon it shows the urgency they attach to higher revenues now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NIGERIA (79%); ENGLAND (70%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (56%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NIGERIA (79%); ENGLAND (70%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); CARTELS (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); GASOLINE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); LAYOFFS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); CURRENCIES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



465 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Starting a Trade War When Times Are Good

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The consumer-confidence polls report that Americans have never felt better about the country's economy. But a vote in Washington last week indicates that politicians suspect the confidence is not very deep.
By a margin of 289 to 141, the House voted to impose import quotas on foreign steel. Those quotas would be imposed on all countries, not just those whose producers were selling below their costs. Never mind whether someone else is more efficient. We are going to protect our own industry. 
 There is a school of thought that dismisses the vote as irrelevant. The Senate, goes the theory, would never go along with such protectionism. If it did, President Clinton would veto the bill. So the vote was a free one, and legislators could take the popular position of protecting the domestic steel industry without fear of actually enacting what most of them know would be bad law.
That analysis probably will prove to be accurate. But the steel industry's cries for protection have already had far more impact than most expected. The industry's complaints began when the collapse of demand from Asia created a worldwide glut of steel, and steel began flooding the United States and other places where demand was still strong. Feeling the rising political pressure, the Clinton Administration took action against Japan and Brazil for dumping steel, and negotiated an agreement to cut Russian exports. But that was not enough to stop the House from passing this misguided bill.
"It is disconcerting to see people talking about this in economic times like the ones we have today," said Representative David Dreier, the chairman of the House Rules Committee and an opponent of the steel bill, after his side lost. He noted that there were 40 times as many American workers in industries that use steel -- and benefit from lower prices -- than there were in the steel industry.
Economically, the bill is nonsense. Aside from the theoretical arguments regarding the benefits of free trade, the damage to the American economy from raising prices for steel users would be far greater than the savings for the uncompetitive steel companies. The traditional argument against dumping -- defined as selling below production costs -- is that the companies are trying to drive their competitors out of the market so they can raise prices later. That is obviously not the case here. The foreign companies were desperate to find new buyers because Asian demand virtually vanished overnight, and their production costs had fallen because their workers and local suppliers could be paid with currencies that had fallen sharply against the dollar.
But it was not the economic arguments that swayed so many votes. It was a belief that voting that way was good politics. The fact that 91 Republicans chose to vote for the steel bill may be a sign that there is considerable nervousness about the durability of the good times. Republicans who were surprised to see that tax cuts did not seem to play in Peoria might yet conclude that protectionism will play there, particularly if the economy starts to slow. Patrick Buchanan will carry the flag for trade war in the Presidential primaries, and might make an impressive showing in a divided field.
In fact, if the American economy has an Achilles' heel, it is in trade. The United States will run a record balance-of-payments deficit this year, but seems to have paid little attention to ways of dealing with it other than protectionism. For now, it does not matter, since foreigners have been eager to invest here, thus recycling the dollars we export to pay for the flood of imports. But if that changes, the dollar could come under severe pressure and the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates to support the currency.
There are signs that the world economy is reviving, that global steel demand will rise and that steel imports will come down even without protectionism. But this bill -- and similar efforts in Europe -- is a reminder that trade wars are easy to start. If such a bad bill can get so many votes in good times, what will happen in bad ones? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMPORT QUOTAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); UNITED STATES ECONOMY IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); PRICE CHANGES (85%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (77%); VETO (75%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (73%); DAVID DREIER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



466 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani in Phoenix: a Speech, Some Politics, and a Little Golf

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, March 21

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani spent the weekend here meeting with Arizona Republicans to discuss national politics, and taking a rare break to play golf and relax before giving a speech this evening to an American Medical Association conference.
The speech, the Mayor's stated reason for being here, was delivered at the association's National Leadership Development Conference, which featured other prominent Republican speakers, including former President George Bush and United States Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona. 
 But Mr. Giuliani, who has expressed strong interest in running for the United States Senate next year, has also been building a close relationship with Arizona's other Senator, John McCain, who has expressed similarly strong interest in running for President, and a visit to Arizona allows the Mayor to strengthen his ties to the McCain camp.
Mr. McCain was in Washington this weekend, but Mr. Giuliani said he met with several members of Mr. McCain's staff and other Republicans to discuss Presidential politics. The Mayor said that his visit did not involve any fund-raising and that discussions did not focus on his own political future.
"I did have discussions about the Presidential race," the Mayor said after his speech. "I had a meeting last night with a number of Republicans in Arizona, but really it was more concerned with national politics and various Presidential bids, including Senator McCain's."
In his speech, Mr. Giuliani discussed the usual subjects that he mentions in out-of-town talks, including New York's steep drop in reports of crime and its booming economy and tourism. He opened with his standard imitation of a mob gangster.
And, in a nod to the broiling dispute back home, Mr. Giuliani was careful to repeat his praise of New York City's police force, saying that officers' use of firearms had been reduced more than crime itself. It is a point the Mayor has made consistently since the shooting of Amadou Diallo by four police officers.
After his speech, Mr. Giuliani answered several questions about the continuing protests outside Police Headquarters. Told that Floyd H. Flake of Queens, a former Representative who has been a supporter of the Mayor, planned to join the protests, Mr. Giuliani said that the demonstrations had become redundant.
"I don't think there is any purpose in people getting themselves arrested," he said. "I think everyone understands the point that's being made. Continuing to do this is merely piling on." And, in what has become practically a daily exercise, Mr. Giuliani praised the police force and its street crimes unit, which he said has been under "relentless attack."
The Mayor, who spent Friday afternoon in Ithaca, N.Y., has been spending an increasing amount of time away from New York City. He acknowledged that he worked in some time for golf in the desert sun. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; PHOENIX (ARIZ); UNITED STATES (97%); ARIZONA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); POLITICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOLF (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JON KYL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



467 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: After Scandals, New Union Leaders Turn More Aggressive

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
After a wave of corruption investigations swept away many of New York City's longtime labor leaders, a new cast of union leaders is starting to make the city's labor movement more vigorous -- and more combative -- than it has been in decades, labor experts and union officials say.
Having been on the defensive for months over corruption, unions are now planning a series of aggressive actions, like mounting a drive to organize 50,000 home health-care workers and demonstrating at Fifth Avenue department stores that use nonunion janitors. 
 And to increase labor's political clout, several unions have formed a new coalition with black and Hispanic politicians that aims to remake the state's Democratic Party and reshape government priorities.
"In the last year, there's been a real sea change," said Gregory Tarpanian, executive director of the Labor Research Association, a New York consulting group. "Unions are ready to play a much bigger role in the political life of the city."
This new aggressiveness, including a large labor rally scheduled for City Hall Park on May 12, is expected to strain the contract negotiations scheduled for next year for more than 250,000 city workers.
But while New York labor seeks to rebound, it will have to work to shed its reputation for being the city with the worst union corruption in the nation. Many of the city's unions have been placed into trusteeship after union leaders faced allegations of embezzling money or taking kickbacks, and labor's resurgence could be set back this spring because several former leaders of District Council 37, which represents 120,000 city workers, are expected to be indicted.
A big reason for labor's more militant stance is an infusion of new blood, including Denis Hughes, the new president of the two-million-member New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. There are also new leaders at two of the city's largest unions, replacing disgraced officials who were pressured to retire and who did little to mobilize workers or exert political influence.
Stanley Hill, an ally of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, retired last month as executive director of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. Earlier, he had been forced to take an unpaid leave because of extensive corruption at his union. And Gus Bevona, president of Service Employees Local 32B-32J, which represents 55,000 doormen and janitors, was pressured to step down because of his extravagant salary and spending.
After years in which many union leaders were more preoccupied with their perks than building their unions, the city's labor movement is now mobilizing on three fronts that Mr. Hill and Mr. Bevona largely ignored: political activity, recruitment and protest rallies.
On the political front, the city's three most powerful union officials -- Dennis Rivera, who heads a 150,000-member health care union; Lee Saunders, the trustee named to replace Mr. Hill, and Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers -- have allied themselves with black and Hispanic political leaders to form a group called the New Century Movement. This alliance has developed a 13-point program that calls for smaller classes in schools, more publicly financed child care, health insurance for uninsured adults and a program that moves workfare workers into permanent jobs. The alliance also opposes privatizing city-owned hospitals.
"If we coalesce around these issues with politicians and community organizations, we can be a force that will have to be dealt with," Mr. Saunders said. "The city and the state now have substantial surpluses, and they are talking about building stadiums and providing tax breaks to multibillion-dollar corporations. On the other hand, you're looking at a public hospital system that's being torn apart and the quality of health care is being diminished. I don't think it's right."
To achieve its goals, the coalition hopes to strengthen the State Democratic Party and make it focus on getting more government services. On March 30, hundreds of union members are to distribute leaflets outlining the coalition's objectives at 60 subway stops in New York City and at locations in Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and other cities upstate. "The purpose of this movement," Mr. Rivera, president of 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union, said, "is to fight for improvement in the lives of our members -- and of all working New Yorkers -- and to use our power not just at election time but all year round in public policy."
Mr. Rivera, whose union merged two years ago with the Service Employees International Union, said he hoped to advance the group's goals through a political action committee that aims to collect $1 million a month. The service employees union will ask its more than 300,000 members in New York State to contribute $5 a month.
"Compared to the laid-back labor leadership we saw, there seems to be a very aggressive, proactive type of leadership," said Representative Gregory W. Meeks, a Democrat who is chairman of New York's Coalition of Black Elected Officials, which has joined the New Century Movement. "This new alliance is going to make a tremendous difference for the Democratic Party."
One result of labor's new aggressiveness is a tenser relationship with Mayor Giuliani. For example, Mr. Saunders has filed suit against the city, charging the Parks Department with violating state law by using workfare workers to do tasks once done by full-time employees. District Council 37 is also threatening to sue the city for hiring 8,000 per-diem employees, who Mr. Saunders said do the same work as union members without receiving pension and vacation benefits. Mr. Hill long took an accommodating approach toward workfare and per-diem employees.
"There's more tension now than there was between the labor movement and the Mayor," said Ms. Weingarten, the teachers' union leader who serves as chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee, which coordinates bargaining for the city's municipal unions. "The labor movement did a tremendous amount to put the city on firm economic footing in 1995, and the Mayor has a short memory about it."
The unions continue to have their critics, of course, among them rank-and-file members who say there has been too much corruption and too little democracy.
Bill Stern, contributing editor at The City Journal, which is published by the generally conservative Manhattan Institute, said labor's increased power could hurt the city's budget and its rebounding economy. He faulted public employee unions in particular, asserting that their members' benefits were too generous.
"When you have a large group of people in New York working for small business who receive practically no benefits, who work long hours to pay taxes to give these union members benefits like pensions and noncontributory health care, it's like a feudal system," he said.
The new cooperation among the city's unions comes after an era in which the movement was weakened by corruption, docile leadership and rivalries between leaders. Mr. Hill did not trust Mr. Rivera and usually refused to work with him, while Mr. Bevona was reclusive and shunned cooperation with other labor leaders -- one official called his local the "Albania of New York unions."
"There's a long history of fragmentation in the New York City labor movement," said Joshua Freeman, a Queens College labor historian. "The last time the city's labor movement really acted coherently together was in the late 50's to the late 60's in the heyday of Harry Van Arsdale." Mr. Van Arsdale, who died in 1986, was the president of the New York City Central Labor Council, the umbrella group of the city's unions.
On the organizing front, several city unions that long ignored recruiting new members are now pressing unionization drives. District Council 37 just conducted its first successful drive in more than a decade, recruiting 120 computer workers in the city welfare agency whose jobs had been contracted out to a private company.
The Mason Tenders District Council, long one of the city's most corrupt unions, has been cleaned up under Federal monitors and is now aggressively organizing after years of failing to recruit new members. The union has organized 2,000 asbestos workers, 1,500 demolition workers and 200 private carting workers.
Under Mr. Bevona, Local 32B-32J not only shunned organizing but also saw its members drop to 55,000, from 70,000, as buildings replaced unionized cleaning contractors with nonunion ones. Seeing the local's membership and power erode, Thomas Balanoff, the trustee named to run the local, said the union would seek to organize 4,000 nonunion janitors on Long Island and 10,000 in Newark and elsewhere in New Jersey.
Local 32B-32J will also try to pressure Citicorp and the Port Authority bus terminal to return to union cleaning contractors after hiring nonunion companies. The union plans a rally at the midtown bus terminal on April 14 and protests this spring at seven Citicorp branches.
With John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., urging unions to step up organizing efforts, New York unions known for organizing are heeding the call. For instance, 1199 will seek to organize 50,000 home care workers who help the elderly and disabled. If that effort succeeds, 1199's membership could grow to more than 200,000.
While Mr. Balanoff and Mr. Saunders seek to invigorate Local 32B-32J and District Council 37, they must work on strengthening the weakened structures left by Mr. Bevona, Mr. Hill and several district council officials expelled or forced to retire because of suspected voting fraud and embezzlement. Because of a startling lack of financial controls, Mr. Saunders is seeking to establish regular budget procedures, while Mr. Balanoff is trying to create an effective system of shop stewards.
To further political and organizing goals, the city's unions are urging members to take to the streets. Brian McLaughlin, president of the Central Labor Council, announced plans on Saturday for a Times Square rally on Sept. 1, which union officials predicted would be the city's largest labor demonstration in decades.
On a more modest level, Local 32B-32J wants to embarrass department stores by holding rallies this summer to protest their use of lower-paid nonunion janitors.
"This summer, we're going to rock-and-roll on Fifth Avenue because all these fancy stores, like F.A.O. Schwarz, are bringing in nonunion labor," Mr. Balanoff said.
To turn his local into a political force, Mr. Balanoff said he hoped to educate janitors and doormen alike about Medicaid cuts, Social Security and other issues. "We represent the city's doormen," he said, "and if we get them talking about political issues to everyone, imagine how powerful a political force we could be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Labor leaders got together for a breakfast meeting last week in Manhattan. From left were Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union; Lee Saunders, the trustee named to run District Council 37, and Dennis Rivera of the health care workers' union. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE A F L-C I O (69%); DISTRICT COUNCIL (56%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISTRICT COUNCIL (56%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNIONIZATION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; ETHICS LABOR UNIONS (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BRIBERY (78%); ETHICS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); COUNTIES (71%); MAYORS (71%); RETAILERS (55%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



468 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
KRUEGER, HAROLD ERNEST

 BODY:
KRUEGER-Harold Ernest. It is with the greatest sadness that his family announces the death of Harold Ernest Krueger on March 18, 1999 after a brief fight with cancer. Born November 16, 1912 in Tomahawk, Wisconsin, Mr. Krueger graduated from high school in 1930 in Wausau, Wisconsin, and went on to work as an insurance adjuster. Following service in the United States Army as a pilot, 1941-1945, he embarked on a successful career as a lumber broker, a director of the Newberry State Bank, and owner of the Falls Building Supply in Newberry, Michigan, until his retirement in 1980. He was a member of the order of the Elks and a 32nd degree Mason. He was a devoted husband and father, a raconteur and humorist extraordinaire, a musician, an avid fisherman, an outdoorsman, and, in his later years, a golfer, and possessed of a personality loved by all. He was preceded in death by his parents, August and Adele Krueger, of Wausau, Wisconsin, and a brother, Louis Krueger, of Eau Claire, Wisconsin. He was married to Marvel Bohn Krueger of Newberry, Michigan, until her death in 1985. He is survived by and will be sorely missed by his wife, Aloha Krueger, of Gulf Stream, Florida; his son and daughter-in-law, Dr. Richard Krueger and Dr. Meg Kaplan, of New York City; his daughter, Marilyn Krueger, of Los Angeles; his stepdaughter, Sharon Osmolofsky, of Kensington, Maryland; his granddaughter, Tena Gilbreath, of Los Angeles; his granddaughter, Molly Krueger, of New York City; his brother, Norman Krueger, of Wausau, Wisconsin; and his sister, Marge Erickson, of Medford, Wisconsin, as well as his many nieces and nephews. Contributions in lieu of flowers should be sent to the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Florida or to the RP Hicks Memorial Hospice in Newberry, Michigan. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, March 25, 1999 at 1:00 P.M., at Our Redeemer Lutheran Church in Newberry, Michigan, with a reception to celebrate his life to follow at his home in Newberry. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: SBID (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: WAUSAU, WI, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE BANK OF INDIA (57%); STATE BANK FOR FOREIGN ECONOMIC AFFAIRS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WAUSAU, WI, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); HOSPICE (78%); CANCER (77%); ARMIES (57%); STEPPARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: KRUEGER, HAROLD ERNEST KRUEGER-HAROLD ERNEST (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



469 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Egged On at a Rally at Capitol, Legislator Announces He Is Gay

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, March 21

 BODY:
A Connecticut legislator revealed that he was gay at a rally at the Capitol today, then said later that he had not planned to do so and had felt pushed into it by organizers of the event.
The legislator, Representative Brian G. Flaherty, said he had gone to the rally just as he goes to many other public events, and had made his statement only after the host had put him on the spot. 
 "I'm a little resentful," said Mr. Flaherty, a Democrat from Coventry. "There are other people who have been put in this position who have gone home and blown their brains out."
An organizer of the rally, Carolyn Gabel, did not dispute Mr. Flaherty's account. "It was an awkward moment," she said. "But he handled it in a very graceful manner, and we are proud of him."
The rally, organized by the Connecticut Coalition for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Civil Rights, was billed as the first time that the rainbow flag of gay pride had been raised over the Capitol.
Mr. Flaherty, 37, is a bank economist who was elected to the General Assembly in 1992. He is co-chairman of the Select Committee on Housing and represents four suburban and rural towns east of Hartford.
He said by phone later that he had come out to family and friends when he was 19 and had felt no need to make a public spectacle.
After his statement at the rally, the two other current Connecticut legislators who are openly gay -- Representatives Art J. Feltman and Evelyn Mantilla, both Hartford Democrats -- raised Mr. Flaherty's arms in a jubilant unity salute.
He was among several officials who spoke. After making remarks about civil rights, he started to leave the microphone. An organizer held him, and some in the crowd of 250 chanted, "Say it! Say it!"
"I didn't want to deny it," he recalled. "So I said, 'I don't think this is going to come as a surprise but, yes, I am gay.' " 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a Connecticut legislator who revealed that he is gay misidentified the legislator. He is Representative Patrick J. Flaherty, a Democrat who represents Coventry, not Representative Brian G. Flaherty, a Republican who represents Watertown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT COALITION FOR LESBIAN GAY BISEXUAL AND TRANSGENDER

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT COALITION FOR LESBIAN GAY BISEXUAL AND TRANSGENDER

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN) ; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMOSEXUALITY; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (51%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; FLAHERTY, BRIAN G (REPR) BRIAN G FLAHERTY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999



470 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: The Wrong Way To Punish Beijing

BYLINE: By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten is dean of the Yale School of Management and was Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade in the first Clinton Administration.

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
As the rage over China's alleged theft of American nuclear secrets continues to seethe in Washington, Congress will be looking for ways to punish Beijing. The obvious move would be to deny China something it wants -- entry into the World Trade Organization, which would give Beijing both the prestige of membership and a voice in the development of a powerful international institution.
Indeed, blocking China from the W.T.O. is just what Jesse Helms, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and others want to do. But that would be a serious mistake, for it would undercut America's commercial and security interests at the same time. 
 Here's why. First, the United States would benefit if China sticks to a path of economic reform, and the W.T.O. provides powerful reinforcement for Beijing to do so. Whatever else you want to say about China, the sheer scale and scope of the move toward capitalism -- from a Communist system -- make it potentially one of history's most remarkable turnarounds. While progress toward a free market is no insurance against China's military adventurism, it at least gives Chinese officials a competing vision for their country.
By becoming a member of the W.T.O., China would in effect be signing a treaty committing itself to becoming a market economy. If it then failed to abide by W.T.O. commitments, it would be subject to sanctions not just by the United States but by all of the members -- a more powerful incentive than unilateral threats from Washington.
Second, reformers like Prime Minister Zhu Rongji would have something to point to when arguing with their opponents. They could cite W.T.O. treaty commitments the way President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico has done with great success as he has battled politicians in his country who want to rebuild economic walls around that country.
In addition, the urgency of continued economic reform must be seen against the backdrop of mounting problems in China. Growth has slowed to nearly half the rate of a few years ago. Exports have gone from an annual growth rate of 20 percent in 1997 to nearly zero growth last year. Foreign investment is dropping by 30 percent compared with 1998. Unemployment and labor unrest are rising, and the banking system is nearly insolvent. This is precisely the time when the straitjacket of the W.T.O. is most necessary to prevent the anti-reformers from forcing a return to a state-dominated economy.
Because joining the W.T.O. would also force China to open its markets, American industry, agriculture and banking would gain great advantages. China does not yet loom large in terms of global business. But that's exactly the point: it should be a much larger and more lucrative commercial market.
That is what it would become if its protectionist tendencies could be reined in. American exports may not seem so important today with the Dow Jones industrial average at stratospheric levels. But for most of the 1990's, overseas sales accounted for about 30 percent of American economic growth, and they will be even more important to us in the future.
China's membership in the W.T.O. would support our national security, too. Even as we take measures to protect our defense secrets, no one knows whether China will become a rogue state or a cooperative member of the world community. But surely we have a better chance of seeing a peaceful and prosperous China if it is inside the W.T.O. tent, adhering to the rule of law, rather than outside of it, mad and restless.
Of course, all this assumes that by the time Mr. Zhu comes to Washington on April 8 for a summit meeting with President Clinton, China has further opened its economy so as to meet the conditions for W.T.O. membership. Otherwise, there is no decision to make regarding Beijing's membership; there is more to the issue than politics.
Yet politics will be pivotal. Even if China satisfies most of Washington's and the W.T.O.'s demands, the Administration's decision to support its application to the international body will lead to one of the ugliest trade debates in many years -- a Rorschach test on China, on trade and on foreign policy.
Many in Congress will point to China's horrible human rights record and will also argue for more trade protection. Many will say China is a military threat and will want to further restrict trade in technology. The only big constituency in favor of China's entry would be American business, and even it could be split, with import-sensitive industries like textiles opposing membership.
Yet the Administration should fight the battle despite the high political costs. The stakes are bigger than China alone, large as those are. The outcome will show whether Washington understands the importance of building a solid foundation for global capitalism and all that implies for international peace.
Unless the opportunity is seized now, it will slip away. In the coming Presidential campaign, candidates will be vying to see who can bash China harder. And new global trade negotiations beginning this November could last several years, during which time no new members will be admitted into the trade organization.
Washington should, of course, move ahead to tighten security leaks at American nuclear laboratories and elsewhere. It should take another look at our policy for high-tech exports of military value. It should continue to hammer away for human rights.
But the United States should bring China into the W.T.O. as well. When you think about the totality of American interests involving the second most important nation in the world, there is no inconsistency.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Eric Drooker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ESPIONAGE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ROBBERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); POLITICS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E (DEAN) JESSE HELMS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



471 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Colgate's Appeal on Tax Shelter Is Rejected

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22

 BODY:
The Supreme Court rejected without comment today a bid by the Colgate-Palmolive Company to gain tens of millions of dollars in tax benefits through an offshore shelter devised by Merrill Lynch & Company.
Merrill Lynch had set up an unusual partnership to create losses that Colgate could deduct from its taxable income. A lower court barred use of the losses, saying they were "sham transactions" that had no purpose other than tax avoidance, and the high court rejected the partnership's appeal. 
 The decision means Colgate cannot take a $98 million deduction, which lawyers say would have given the company more than $25 million in tax savings.
Ten other Merrill Lynch clients -- including Allied Signal, American Home Products, the Brunswick Corporation and Schering-Plough -- are seeking to use the same device. Several are fighting similar court cases, so far without success. "Each case will be judged on its own set of facts," said Bill Halldin, a Merrill Lynch spokesman. He said Merrill, the nation's largest brokerage firm, was disappointed with the decision.
A spokeswoman for Colgate said the case "has no impact on the company's current or future profits" and declined to comment further.
In 1989, Merrill Lynch approached Colgate with the idea for the partnership as a way to offset $105 million in capital gains that Colgate, the New York-based consumer products company, had incurred when it sold its Kendall Company subsidiary in 1988.
A Merrill subsidiary set up a partnership in Bermuda with Algemene Bank Nederland N.V., now a unit of ABN Amro Holding N.V., the largest Dutch bank. The partnership engaged in a series of transactions that allowed the bank to claim a paper profit in 1989 and Colgate to claim roughly the same amount in losses -- $98 million -- in later years.
 Since ABN was not an American taxpayer, it did not have to pay taxes on the gain. Colgate still sought to take advantage of the loss on its taxes. Merrill received almost $8 million in fees.
The Internal Revenue Service said Colgate could not claim the loss because the transactions were "devoid of economic substance." A Tax Court judge agreed, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld that ruling last year in a 2-to-1 decision.
The Supreme Court's decision came as the second-ranking official in the Treasury Department, Lawrence H. Summers, promoted a crackdown on corporate tax shelters. The Clinton Administration has proposed higher penalties and an end to tax-avoidance plans that have no economic purpose.
"We believe there is a major problem," Mr. Summers told the Tax Executives Institute today. He cited an estimate that tax-shelter arrangements cost the Treasury $10 billion a year in lost revenue. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (94%); ABO (ASX) (82%); BC (NYSE) (70%); COV (NYSE) (66%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (82%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; TAX EXECUTIVES INSTITUTE MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (96%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (94%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (82%); BRUNSWICK CORP (70%); COVIDIEN PLC (66%); ALGEMENE BANK NEDERLAND NV (66%); PFIZER INC (56%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (56%); TAX EXECUTIVES INSTITUTE (59%); TAX EXECUTIVES INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; TAX EXECUTIVES INSTITUTE TAX EXECUTIVES INSTITUTE (59%); TAX EXECUTIVES INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (54%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); TAX COURTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); JUDGES (73%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); CORPORATE TAX (61%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (DEPUTY SEC) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



472 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Worldwide Drug Sales Up 7% in '98

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
World sales of pharmaceuticals grew 7 percent last year, to $251.3 billion, thanks to the popularity of several new drugs and their simultaneous introductions in many countries, according to an annual industry survey scheduled to be released today.
The United States remained the world's largest pharmaceutical market, with $99.5 billion in sales last year, an 11 percent increase from 1997. Japan was second with $38.8 billion in sales, a 1 percent decrease from last year, followed by Germany with $18.2 billion, a gain of 5 percent from 1997, according to I.M.S. Health, an industry consultant that conducted the survey. 
 "One thing is clear from the survey," said Jim Newell, president of global services for I.M.S. Health. "There is long-term sustainable growth in the pharmaceutical industry. We're predicting an 8 percent annual compound growth. That will mean adding some $110 billion in sales by 2002."
The annual tally by I.M.S. is closely watched by Wall Street analysts and pharmaceutical executives. Over the last 18 months, as huge mergers with American Home Products, SmithKline Beecham and Glaxo-Wellcome were announced and then scrapped, analysts have speculated that many chief executives will not retire until they lead the industry's largest company. The I.M.S. rankings tell them how large a merger they need to capture the prize.
This year's survey crowns a new industry king. After finishing third in 1997, Novartis A.G. of Switzerland, moved up to first last year, with $10.639 billion in pharmaceutical sales. Merck & Company, the world's largest pharmaceutical company in 1997, slipped to second last year with $10.635 billion in sales, according to I.M.S. Health.
Glaxo Wellcome P.L.C. of Britain, whose sales increased just 1 percent last year, tumbled from second to third in 1998 with $10.539 billion in sales. Pfizer Inc.'s 21 percent sales increase last year was enough to move it from sixth in 1997 to fourth last year with $9.911 billion in sales.
Rounding out the top 10 were the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, with $9.785 billion; Johnson & Johnson, with $9.016 billion; the American Home Products Corporation, with $7.814 billion; Roche Holding A.G. of Switzerland, with $7.621 billion; Eli Lilly & Company, with $7.356 billion and SmithKline Beecham P.L.C. of Britain, with $7.349 billion.
Six of the 10 largest drug companies were based in the United States. Mr. Newell said companies based in the United States understood their home market better than many of their competitors.
Even though Novartis and Merck were the world's largest drug makers, they were dwarfed in sales growth by the Warner-Lambert Company. Worldwide drug sales increased 8 percent last year at Merck and 5 percent at Novartis. Warner-Lambert's sales swelled 37 percent last year, enough to move the company from 16th in 1997 to 15th. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (95%); GSK (LSE) (95%); BIOC (EGX) (95%); PFZ (LSE) (94%); PFE (NYSE) (94%); MRK (PAR) (93%); MRK (NYSE) (93%); NVS (NYSE) (85%); NOVN (SWX) (85%); BMY (NYSE) (84%); ROG (SWX) (84%); LLY (SWX) (84%); LLY (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (95%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (94%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH; NOVARTIS AG; MERCK & CO GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (95%); PFIZER INC (94%); MERCK & CO INC (93%); NOVARTIS AG (85%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (84%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (84%); ELI LILLY & CO (84%); WARNER-LAMBERT CO (80%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); IMS HEALTH INC (57%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMS HEALTH; NOVARTIS AG; MERCK & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INDUSTRY PROFILES; SALES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (95%); SALES FIGURES (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J JOSEPH C PAPA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



473 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices to Weigh Race Barrier in Hawaiian Voting

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22

 BODY:
In a case that mixes history, race and evolving constitutional doctrine, the Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether Hawaii may continue to deny anyone who is not descended from the original Hawaiians the right to vote for the leadership of an agency that administers tens of millions of dollars in public money.
The agency is the Office of Hawaiian Affairs, set up under the state's Constitution in 1978 to oversee trust funds, for which most revenue comes from former royal Hawaiian lands. The office's nine trustees, who must themselves be descendants of the native Hawaiians, are charged with spending the money on education, social welfare and other programs to benefit native Hawaiians. 
 Harold F. Rice is a native Hawaiian, in the sense that he was born in the islands to which his great-great-grandparents moved in the 19th century. But this is not what the state Constitution means by Hawaiian, a term that signifies not place of birth but race.
When Mr. Rice, a Cornell-educated rancher and polo player from the town of Kamuela, in a remote corner of Hawaii's Big Island, went to vote three years ago in the statewide election for Office of Hawaiian Affairs trustees, he was turned away.
He sued the state under the 15th Amendment, one of the amendments adopted after the Civil War to guarantee that the freed slaves would have the right to vote. It provides: "The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude."
He lost in both the Federal District Court in Honolulu and in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, where a panel of three judges wrote last June that the racial voting restriction was "rooted in historical concern for the Hawaiian race" and justified "because Hawaiians are the only group with a stake in the trust" and in the money that the trustees administer.
That explanation did not satisfy Mr. Rice, and the question now is whether it will satisfy the Supreme Court. Theodore B. Olson, a well-connected Washington lawyer recruited for the Supreme Court appeal by Mr. Rice's lawyer in Kamuela, John W. Goemans, told the Justices that the appeals court's decision ratified "a broad and patently offensive regime of racially segregated voting in the state of Hawaii."
Clearly, the case, Rice v. Cayetano, No. 98-818, got the Court's attention, provoking an unusually prolonged debate among the Justices over whether to hear the appeal.
Before today's announcement, the case had been under active consideration at the Justices' weekly, closed-door conferences since the beginning of the year, suggesting that it was subject to a degree of vetting far greater than the typical case at this early stage, where the question is not how to decide a case but whether to hear it at all. The case will be argued in October.
If the Justices perceive this case as something of a hot potato, that is understandable. While no other state program resembles Hawaii's, the case raises far broader questions about making race a condition of eligibility for public benefits.
While it is certainly possible to structure a narrow decision specific to Hawaii, as the Ninth Circuit did, it is also possible to turn this case into a battleground of the ongoing affirmative action wars. A series of recent Supreme Court opinions have subjected government programs that offer special benefits on the basis of race to the same rigorous constitutional scrutiny, no matter which race is the beneficiary.
Another interesting element in the case is a 1973 Supreme Court opinion on which the appeals court based a substantial part of its analysis. That case, Salyer Land Co. v. Tulare Lake District, upheld a California law that gave land owners, and no one else, the right to vote for the management of water storage districts.
These were "special purpose" elections in which property owners had by far the greatest stake, then-Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote for the majority. Three liberal Justices, William O. Douglas, William J. Brennan Jr. and Thurgood Marshall, vigorously dissented, on the ground that renters, sharecroppers and other nonowners could be injured by mismanagement of the water supply, and "all should have a say."
There were also these other developments today as the Court returned from a two-week recess.
 
Professors' Workload
The Court upheld an Ohio law that both required state universities to set standards for the amount of time professors should devote to classroom teaching and took the question of professors' workload off the table as a subject for collective bargaining.
The 8-to-1 decision overturned a ruling by the Ohio Supreme Court, which held that the 1993 state law violated the professors' constitutional right to equal protection because no other public employees were barred from negotiating with the state over their workload. Ohio appealed the ruling.
The Court's unsigned opinion today, from which only Justice John Paul Stevens dissented, said the state law was a straightforward economic regulation that was constitutional as long as it had a rational basis. The state's goal was "to increase the time spent by faculty in the classroom," the opinion said, adding that the law "was an entirely rational step to accomplish this objective."
Justice Stevens objected that the Court should not have issued a decision without full briefing and argument. The Justices had never formally granted review in the case, Central State University v. American Association of University Professors, No. 98-1071. Justice Stevens said that while he had not reached a conclusion, the Court's analysis was "mechanistic" and ignored the issues of academic freedom that were present in the case.
Justice Stevens also added a sly observation. "While surveying the flood of law reviews that cross my desk," he said, "I have sometimes wondered whether law professors have any time to spend teaching their students about the law."
A majority of Ohio's legislators evidently had "a similar reaction," he added.
 
Violence Against Women
Without comment, the Court turned down a constitutional challenge to a provision of a Federal law, the Violence Against Women Act, that makes it a Federal crime to cross state lines for the purpose of injuring a "spouse or intimate partner."
The appeal was brought by the first woman to be convicted under the 1994 law, a Russian immigrant who was convicted and sentenced to life in prison for conspiring in the murder of her estranged husband, Yakov Gluzman. Mr. Gluzman, also an immigrant from Russia, was a successful medical researcher when his wife, Rita Gluzman, and a cousin traveled from New Jersey to New York to kill him in his apartment in Pearl River.
Mrs. Gluzman's appeal, Gluzman v. United States, No. 98-1326, argued that Congress lacked constitutional authority to turn a crime of domestic violence into a Federal offense. The lower Federal courts had rejected that challenge.
The Justices are likely to have another chance to consider the issue. Earlier this month, the Federal appeals court in Richmond declared another provision of the Violence Against Women Act unconstitutional, and a Supreme Court appeal is planned in that case, Brzonkala v. Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
 
Prosecutor's Comment
The Court accepted an appeal by New York State from a ruling that a Queens prosecutor violated a defendant's constitutional rights by telling the jury that the defendant had derived a "big advantage" from sitting through the testimony of witnesses at his rape trial. The implication of the comment was that the defendant, Ray Agard, had thus been able to tailor his own testimony to what had gone before.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit had granted Mr. Agard's petition for a writ of habeas corpus on the ground that the comment in effect had compromised his right to attend his own trial. In its appeal, Portuondo v. Agard, No. 98-1170, the state asked the Justices to resolve what it said was widespread confusion over the propriety of prosecutors' comments on defendants' conduct or demeanor in the courtroom.
 
Sibling Adoption
Without comment, the Court turned down an appeal filed on behalf of a 4-year-old foster child who was separated from his 6-year-old sister for eventual adoption by an aunt. The children's parents had been found unfit, and a Massachusetts court approved a request by an aunt in New Jersey to rear him. The appeal, Hugo P. v. George P., No. 98-7565, argued that the custody order separating the siblings violated the boy's constitutional right to "family integrity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 245 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT OF 1999 (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) OHIO SUPREME COURT (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) OHIO SUPREME COURT (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; OHIO; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); HAWAII, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; WOMEN; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; SEX CRIMES; ADOPTIONS; LABOR; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOSTER CARE; LABOR LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SLAVERY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (59%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA HAROLD F RICE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



474 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
China's Choices

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI

 BODY:
When viewed from here, there is something incredibly off-base about the debate on China going on in the United States today. The best parallel I can think of is the debate in America about Japan a decade ago.
The debate about Japan was essentially between two schools. The "Honda school" argued that the Japanese had basically found the secret to endless economic success -- from just-in-time inventory to team manufacturing -- and the only thing for America to do was to emulate the Japanese model and accommodate them as best we could. The "Gen. Douglas MacArthur" school argued that the Japanese may have found the secret of success but they had rigged the game by closing off their markets to others, and the right policy was to beat down their walls and contain their rising economic power. 
 There was only one school missing from this Japan debate: the one arguing that Japan's system was deeply flawed, that while it had a few cutting-edge global companies, the rest of its economy resembled state-owned Communist factories and that the Japanese wizardry for making a lot of the same thing well would no longer be an advantage in the information age, where innovation is happening much faster and everyone wants something different, tailored just for him. Therefore, Japan's economy would slow to a crawl in the 1990's and the biggest problem we would have with Japan would be managing its weakness.
In other words, the only school missing from the debate on Japan was the one that reflected reality. The same is true now for China.
There are essentially two schools in the U.S. China debate. One school says just trade with China and everything will turn out fine, as China naturally prospers. The other school argues that China will grow stronger and more authoritarian at the same time, and therefore it must be contained and tamed now by U.S. power, before it's too late.
Time will prove both these schools off the mark. I believe the key problem we will face with China over the next decade will be managing its weakness. China may grow richer, and it may grow more authoritarian, but it's not going to do both at the same time. In the long run China cannot get where it wants to go, in terms of higher living standards, without a radical political and economic restructuring. It will not be able to cure the 40 percent of its economy that is bankrupt banks and factories without more rule of law, more global integration and investment, and more democratization.
China cannot get from here to there with its current corruption-laden one-party system, and moving away from that system is going to involve some wrenching changes and internal strains. (See dictionary for Thailand, Korea and Indonesia.)
We debate about China as though President Jiang Zemin woke up every morning and said, "Hey, where can I threaten America today?" Nonsense. Mr. Jiang wakes up every morning and says to his aides: "What? Our unemployment level is now 101 million? But yesterday you told me it was only 100 million." That's what he's focused on because that's what can kill him and his party -- not American power. Managing China's weakness -- and the turmoil it could spew out of here -- when China's current system hits the limits of its adaptability could turn out to be an all-consuming task for U.S. foreign policy as well.
It's ironic how perceptions of the old Soviet Union now color U.S.-China relations. U.S. conservatives look at China today and see the 1960's Soviet Union of Sputnik, Khrushchev and a rising Communist power; Chinese intellectuals look at China today and worry about the 1990's Soviet Union of Mafiosi and social collapse.
"Forgive me for my directness," Yang Jiemian, an expert at Shanghai's Institute for International Studies, said to me, "but I have seen what happened to the former Soviet Union. The lesson is: If conditions are not prepared, and we change our system too quickly, there will be great social disorder and civil war and the Americans will not come to our rescue."
Let's have a division of labor: You worry that China is a car about to run us off the road. I'll worry that it's a car with 1.3 billion people going 80 miles an hour toward a speed bump, with wheels that could come off at any moment. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (96%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (50%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL COS LLC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (96%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (50%); EAST CHINA (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); TRENDS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); POLITICS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



475 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Primakov Says Russia Will Fight Anti-Semitism

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 22

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov promised a group of American Jews today that the Russian Government will combat a rising tide of anti-Semitism.
Mr. Primakov provided the assurance in a meeting with representatives of the Anti-Defamation League, a division of B'nai B'rith. The Kremlin has condemned anti-Semitism, but Mr. Primakov has previously said little about the problem, although he himself has Jewish family roots. 
 As he prepared to fly to Washington on Tuesday to seek Western financial credits, however, he spoke out in an apparent effort to set a positive tone for his mission.
"I say unamibiguously that the Government takes a very strong position against any manifestation of nationalism, including anti-Semitism," Mr. Primakov told the Jewish group, its representatives said.
They also said Mr. Primakovpromised to support new legislation to clamp down on fascist and extremist groups. He was reported to have said he wants Jews to feel at home in Russia and to have condemned the anti-Semitic tirades of Albert Makashov, a former general and Communist lawmaker.
"I believe that Makashov has to be condemned fair and square and unambiguously for his pronouncements in an open and undisguised way," Mr. Primakov was quoted as saying.
Since the collapse of Russia's currency in August, there have been growing incidents of anti-Semitism. Many Jews in Moscow say they do not feel in danger, but the problem is more serious in the provinces. Earlier this month, for example, the lone synagogue in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk was vandalized.
Mr. Makashov has been one of the most vitriolic leaders of the anti-Semitic crusade. He has blamed Jews for the nation's economic ills. In a recent speech in the southern Russian city of Rostov, he virtually invited Cossacks to sack Jewish homes.
The Communist-led Parliament, however, has declined to condemn him. On Friday, 104 members voted to censure Mr. Makashov while 133 rejected the measure. Instead, the Parliament charged that the press is exaggerating the danger of Russian fascism.
Mr. Primakov plans to meet on Thursday in the United States with a group of American Jews. Abraham Foxman, the national director of the Anti-Defamation league, said Mr. Primakov's remarks today were important.
"It is his first signfiicant public statement condemning not only anti-Semitisim in Russia but the specific utterances of Makashov," Mr. Foxman said.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel also met here with Mr. Primakov today and expressed concern over anti-Semitism and the sale of Russian missile technology to Iran.
Mr. Netanyahu indicated in an interview on Russian television that he was prepared to discuss cooperation on high-technology projects and the possible purchase of air defense systems from Russia. That could be an incentive to Russia to cut off the sale of missile technology to Iran, a top Israeli and American priority.
In a speech at a Moscow synagogue on Sunday, Mr. Netanyahu condemned anti-Semitism and invited Russian Jews to immigrate to Israel.
"This is a terrible epidemic, which is above all dangerous for the society in which it is developing," he said. "I want you to come to Israel, but the choice is in your hands."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE OF B'NAI B'RITH WESTERN FINANCIAL PRINTING CO (57%); WESTERN FINANCIAL BANK (57%); WESTERN FINANCIAL GROUP INC (57%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (84%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE OF B'NAI B'RITH ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (84%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); VANDALISM (69%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (62%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN); GORDON, MICHAEL R BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



476 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Oil Executives Work the Room at OPEC Meeting

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 22

 BODY:
The Libyan oil minister's senior bodyguard kept a stern vigil outside his boss's 12th- floor suite at the Hotel Intercontinental today, but not to protect him from terrorists.
Rather, his mission was to insure the privacy of meetings among the minister, Abdallah Salim al-Badri, and American oil executives who were discreetly slipping in and out. The Americans did not want to attract attention from Washington, where communication with Libya is officially discouraged. 
 Such clandestine meetings are not uncommon surrounding important meetings of the 11-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, such as the one that begins on Tuesday. Scores of oil company executives and industry analysts are drawn to Vienna, OPEC's headquarters, hoping for an audience with an oil minister.
This is a city famed for its discretion, secret banking and effective security, a place where American oil executives can see Libyans, Iranians and Iraqis without stirring the ire of Washington for skirting sanctions imposed on those countries.
"Where else are you going to see all these people gathered in one place where you can further your commercial goals, don't have to worry about traveling to difficult places like Libya, Iraq or Iran and do it discretely?" said Nordine Ait-Laoussine, Algeria's former oil minister, now a prominent consultant who brokers such meetings.
If anything, the time and trouble may be worth the effort. There is hope here that the protracted decline of oil prices is coming to an end. OPEC is on the verge of cutting its production deeply to push up prices. The worst of the Asian crisis appears to be over, which could stimulate demand for oil.
There are other, politically sensitive reasons for American oil industry emissaries to take a particular interest in this gathering -- changes among three renegade members that suggest doing business with them may soon be allowed.
Iraq already is selling oil again under United Nations guidelines. United States relations with Iran have shown signs of a thaw. And there is even a crack in the ice with Libya, which made overtures last week to ease its isolation by agreeing to relinquish suspects wanted for trial in the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 11 years ago.
"Somebody has got to keep the contact with these huge oil producers when these sanctions come off," said Oscar Wyatt, former chairman of the Coastal Corporation, a large United States energy company. "The Americans don't know why they are doing what they've done and how to undo it." Mr. Wyatt is known for his contacts with some of the world's most frowned-upon oil producers, including a famous visit in 1990 with Iraq's Saddam Hussein to persuade him to release hostages then held by Iraq.
"We cannot come out of this world without any friends," Mr. Wyatt said today as two assistants waited to accompany him to a minister's rendezvous. He would not say whom he had met, but others said he saw both the Libyan and Iraqi oil ministers today.
A senior official from the Chevron Corporation, fresh out of talks with Iraqi oil officials, confirmed the notion of talks now, business later.
"According to the United Nations and American sanctions, we can talk. We don't sign on any deals, but we can talk," said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
"The Russians are signing deals with Iraq, so are the French," he added. "We are behind. We should be ready too."
Iraqi oil already makes its way to the United States market.
Although Iraqis have refrained from selling oil directly to United States companies to make a political point, they sell their oil for food to the French and Russians, who make a profit by reselling it to United States companies. Robin D'Alessandro, an oil trader with Vitol, a large international commodities firm, says she buys Iraqi oil through Russian intermediaries.
American oil industry representatives are not the only outsiders who come to the such OPEC meetings. It is also important for oil industry analysts like Gary Ross to be here. He is president of a New York-based consulting firm, Petroleum Industry Research Associates, and sells advice to oil companies.
As he came over this afternoon to shake hands with Prince Salman, the deputy oil minister of Saudi Arabia in the lobby of the ANA hotel, Mr. Ross was mindful of the importance of such connections.
A meeting usually follows such handshakes and the knowledge acquired in that meeting translates into money and retainers. Asked if it was worth traveling from New York for this, Mr. Ross himself asked: "What do you think?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraq's Oil Minister, Amir Mohammed Rashid, left, was among those in Vienna for the OPEC meeting. The other man was not identified. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); AUSTRIA (91%); ALGERIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA (AUSTRIA); LIBYA; IRAN; IRAQ; UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); AUSTRIA (91%); ALGERIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



477 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Rising Oil Prices

 BODY:
Oil prices are heading up, as Saudi Arabia and other oil producers seek to restrain the supply. Those higher prices will dampen the economic boom in the United States but will not cause severe problems for this country. The rise should serve as a reminder to Americans that energy conservation, largely forgotten as oil prices have fallen to their lowest level in years, remains an important goal.
The oil-producing countries, meeting in Vienna, are expected today to agree to reductions in production totaling about two million barrels per day. If the cuts are made, that would be more than enough to assure that oil prices will rise. 
 The increases have already begun. The benchmark price of west Texas intermediate crude oil, which fell from above $25 per barrel at the end of 1996 to under $11 at the end of last year, has rebounded to above $15. Demand for oil in Asia is beginning to rise as economies start to recover. American gasoline demand has been rising at a fast clip due both to the boom here and to the growing sales of inefficient sport utility vehicles.
There are rumors that Saudi Arabia, which is to make the biggest cuts, has threatened that, if other oil producers do not live up to their promises to cut, it will produce oil as fast as it can to disrupt their markets. Such a move would send oil prices plunging, so the threat may be enough to restrain production for some time, notwithstanding the fact that some countries have broken previous promises to reduce output. Frederick P. Leuffer, the oil analyst at Bear Stearns, thinks the price of crude oil could climb back to $20 by the end of this year.
Such a rise in oil prices would reduce the economic pain for major oil exporters, among them Russia and Indonesia, but it would slow economic growth in other countries. For Americans, the move means that inflation is likely to rise, albeit not by huge amounts, and that spending on consumer goods is likely to slow from the recent torrid pace. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRIA (71%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (71%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRIA (71%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (71%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENERGY AND POWER; PRODUCTION PRICE INCREASES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



478 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks Falter and Dow Slips 13.04 Points, to 9,890.51

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell yesterday, forcing investors to face the possibility that the Dow Jones industrial average might not close at more than 10,000 points any time soon.
The Dow average crossed 10,000 points several times last week in intraday trading. Yesterday, though, it failed even to do that, meandering throughout the session and ending 13.04 points lower at 9,890.51. Even so, the Dow remains up more than 8 percent so far this year. 
 Cable television and Internet stocks provided some upward momentum to the technology sector. But shares in personal computer manufacturers sold off, leaving the Nasdaq composite down 25.33 points, or 1 percent, at 2,395.94; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.28 points, to 1,297.01.
Edward M. Kerschner, stock market strategist at Paine Webber, said that unless interest rates moved significantly lower or 1999 earnings growth was substantially higher than current forecasts of 5 percent to 8 percent, he expects "in the best case, to see the market stall around these levels for a good few months."
There was no economic news to influence trading today. Interest rates edged higher in the bond market, reversing an earlier decline. The yield on 30-year Treasury bonds rose slightly to 5.57 percent, from 5.55 percent Friday.
Cable television stocks rose on takeover news. Mediaone Group rose 7 3/4 a share, to 68 1/2, on the New York Stock Exchange after the Comcast Corporation offered to buy it for $44.3 billion. Comcast's series A shares lost 5 3/8, to 64 3/4, in Nasdaq trading.
Internet shares also continued to blaze higher, with America Online gaining 10 3/4, to 130, on the Big Board.
Among other issues that gained, Jenny Craig Inc., the diet and vitamin company, rose 1 1/16 a share, to 4 1/2. The company said that it would begin selling a line of vitamins, minerals and dietary supplements through a new site on the World Wide Web.
Shares in the Gucci Group N.V. rose 2 1/8, to 83 1/8, on the New York Stock Exchange, after a Netherlands court ruled yesterday that Gucci, the fashion group, must begin negotiations with the French luxury-goods maker LVMH Moet Hennessey Louis Vuitton over LVMH's $7.86 billion offer for Gucci.
The court restored LVMH's voting rights on its 26 percent stake in Gucci, which had been suspended March 3. The court also upheld Friday's agreement between the French retailer, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute, and Gucci, which provides that Pinault will take a 40 percent interest in Gucci. But the court suspended all parts of the agreement that would hamper the negotiations between Gucci and LVMH.
Shares of the U.S. Filter Corporation fell 1/8, to 30 3/8, after Vivendi, one of France's largest industrial conglomerates, said it would buy the company in a $6.2 billion, two-step cash deal.
Personal computer stocks were weaker after Kevin McCarthy, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities, lowered his earnings estimate on the Dell Computer Corporation and said he expected the PC industry to grow only 8 percent in 1999; that is down from his previous estimate of 10 percent. Dell shares slipped 2 3/8, to 37 7/8.
Wall Street has been jittery for weeks about the health of the computer market. On Friday, I.B.M. led the Dow lower after Thomas Kraemer, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter & Company, issued a word of caution about the computer maker. Yesterday, Dan Niles, an analyst with BancBoston Robertson Stephens & Company, followed suit, and I.B.M.'s shares fell 1 9/16, to 167.
Technology stocks were largely responsible for leading the market out of its slump last autumn, said Tony Dwyer, chief equity strategist at Ladenburg Thalmann & Company. If the market is to continue to improve, he added, it is crucial that they begin to perform better, but that is not likely, given the extremely high prices on technology stocks.
"If you're an index watcher, and you're watching the Dow 30 stocks, you've got to be bullish," Mr. Dwyer said. "But if you're an investment adviser, you have to look at everything, not just 30 stocks. And if you're looking at the broader market, you've got to sell it right now."
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 1,743 to 1,240 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 662.4 million shares, down from the previous session.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.19 point, to 610.49, and the American Stock Exchange composite index rose 5.49 points, to 717.36. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 3.38 points, to 393.20.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (85%); CCV (NYSE) (85%); MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%); PP (PAR) (81%); PP (BIT) (81%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (82%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (81%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (81%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (81%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (81%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (65%); NAICS562998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (60%); SIC4959 SANITARY SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (60%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (60%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (52%); 

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (85%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%); GUCCI GROUP NV (82%); PPR SA (81%); JENNY CRAIG INC (65%); SIEMENS WATER TECHNOLOGIES (60%); UNITED STATES FILTER CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); AOL INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (87%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (85%); TAKEOVERS (79%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



479 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: China Says Los Alamos Scientist Gave It No Secrets on Warheads

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 22

 BODY:
Chinese officials say that Wen Ho Lee, the Taiwan-born American scientist suspected of leaking nuclear secrets, attended two scientific meetings in China in the 1980's.
But in a report issued late on Sunday night by the New China News Agency, Chinese scientists vehemently denied that Mr. Lee gave away plans for making advanced American warheads. 
 The case against Mr. Lee "is no more than a fabrication," the report quotes Prof. Li Deyuan of the Institute of Applied Physics and Computational Mathematics as saying. Mr. Lee has been dismissed from his job at the Los Alamos National Laboratory for violating security rules, but he has not been charged with a crime.
"According to Professor Li, Wen Ho Lee attended an international symposium on hydromechanics in Beijing in 1986, which was simply and totally a meeting about basic scientific matters," the news agency report said. "Lee delivered an open lecture about calculating the methods of hydromechanics in a research institute in Beijing, which was also fundamentally basic science and nothing to do with 'secrets.' "
American intelligence and law enforcement officials have said Mr. Lee has told them that he had unauthorized contacts with Chinese scientists, but they have not provided details of what he said.
The Chinese news agency account said Mr. Lee also attended the International Computation Physics Conference in China, with Professor Li as chairman, in June 1988. The meeting, attended by more than 200 scientists from various countries, was said to have been co-sponsored by the Beijing applied physics institute, Drexel University in Philadelphia and the American Government's National Science Foundation.
Mr. Lee attended the 1988 conference with the approval of his employers at the Los Alamos laboratory, the report said, and delivered a paper titled "Material Void Opening Computation Using Particle Method." Mr. Lee's presentation "covered general basic research and did not involve any confidential information," it said.
A scientist identified as the secretary general of that conference, Zhang Tianyuan, said the meeting had involved "general-purpose academic talks and never touched upon the secrets of the W-88 nuclear warhead."
American officials say they believe that China stole important design elements of the W-88, a miniaturized nuclear warhead useful for building multiple-warhead rockets.
The Beijing applied physics academy involved in the two meetings conducts research on nuclear weapons for the military as well as on peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
The news agency report also sought to refute the broader charges that China had taken advantage of economic and scientific exchanges in the last two decades to steal military technology. It said charges made by Congressional investigators that China stole secrets of the neutron bomb, of the W-88 warhead and of simulated nuclear explosions were "an obvious calumny."
Following a line espoused by senior Chinese officials in recent weeks, the report said false charges against China had been generated by Americans stuck in a "cold war mentality" who wanted to "sabotage Sino-U.S. relations." The hostile theories are fanned, it said, by partisan politics in the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ROBBERY (84%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); DISMISSALS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); ASIAN AMERICANS (59%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; WEN HO LEE WEN HO LEE (95%); LI DEYUAN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



480 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: IN RUSSIA;
Moscow Opposes Air Raids, but Is Miffed at Serbs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 22

 BODY:
Serbia's latest offensive in Kosovo is leading some of Russia's top foreign policy specialists to question Moscow's longstanding support for Belgrade.
With Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov set to leave on Tuesday for Washington, Russia's top priority is to wrest billions of dollars from the International Monetary Fund, not argue over the Balkans. 
 Given the economic stakes for Moscow, the decision by President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to press the attack against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo is more than a matter of bad timing. An increasing number of Russian experts say it underscores Belgrade's indifference to the Primakov mission.
Within the Russian Government, senior officials talk quietly about their deep frustration with Mr. Milosevic. Some leading lawmakers are more vocal.
"We have invested too much into this problem," Vladimir P. Lukin, the leader of Parliament's foreign relations committee, told Russian television on Sunday. "We must know the limits of our support."
None of this means that Russia would welcome a NATO bombing strike. Moscow's long-range goal is to diminish the military and political utility of the Western alliance.
Nationalist sentiment at home further demands that the Russians give their fellow Slavs in Yugoslavia oratorical support, even though many ordinary people do not identify with the Serbian cause. Russian Foreign Ministry officials, for their part, continue to argue that NATO air strikes would make a bad situation worse.
Russia hoped to negotiate an accord that would obviate the need for NATO action. When he served as Foreign Minister, Mr. Primakov put Russia's prestige on the line by inviting Mr. Milosevic to Moscow last summer.
Afterward, Mr. Primakov sat by Mr. Milosevic's side in an ornate Russian Foreign Ministry mansion as the Yugoslav leader denied that Serbian forces had ever harmed ethnic Albanians and promised to ease the confrontation.
Earlier this month, President Boris N. Yeltsin sent a letter to Belgrade, urging Mr. Milosevic to seek a political settlement, Russian officials said.
But these days Belgrade does not seem to be listening to Moscow's counsel. The Serbs, in fact, may have timed their attacks against the Kosovo Albanians to coincide with Mr. Primakov's mission to Washington, calculating that NATO would be reluctant to strike when Mr. Primakov was in the United States.
The fact that a flare-up of the fighting might sour the atmosphere for Mr. Primakov's trip or force him to defer it does not seem to have mattered much in Belgrade.
And if Russia's influence with Mr. Milosevic has dwindled, it seems to have reached a low point with NATO. The alliance appears to have concluded that it must take action soon if the Serbian attacks continue, to salvage its own credibility, regardless of what the Russians think.
This is not the first time that Mr. Primakov has put Russia's authority on the line and come out on the losing end. Two years ago he engaged in an all-night negotiating session in Geneva, which Moscow later asserted had broken the deadlock over weapons inspections in Iraq.
But it only took a matter of months before the Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein, walked away from the compromise and the Clinton Administration began planning a retaliatory strike. These days, Moscow rarely objects to the United States air strikes in Iraq, apparently calculating that it can do little about them.
Unless a breakthrough is achieved in Belgrade, Moscow stands to be humiliated again. Even if there is progress, the credit is likely to go to Richard C. Holbrooke, the American envoy who arrived in Belgrade armed with the threat of NATO force.
Today Mr. Primakov repeated, almost ritualistically, Moscow's opposition to NATO bombing. But Moscow's senior diplomat in the region, Boris Mayorsky, said tonight that Moscow did not have any special plan.
Mr. Primakov appeared determined to go to Washington anyway. When the Echo Moscow radio station asked its listeners today to phone in their opinion, 69 percent of the 1,677 callers said Mr. Primakov should not cancel his Washington mission, even if NATO attacked Mr. Milosevic's troops.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (93%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TRENDS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY (PRIME MIN) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



481 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Imports FaceHigher Tariffs On Beef Issue

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22

 BODY:
The United States prepared to open a new front in its trans-Atlantic trade disputes today, publishing a list of $900 million in European goods like truffles and foie gras that could be subjected to 100 percent tariffs if American farmers are not permitted to export hormone-treated beef to Europe.
On the list were mainly food items, including Evian, Perrier, Ricola cough drops and imported Dijon mustard. But there also were some manufactured goods, like mopeds and smaller motorcycles by Bianchi of Sweden. 
 The announcement came in response to European Union statements that it would not be able to comply with a ruling from the World Trade Organization to end its ban on hormone-treated beef by May 13. The organization concluded that Europe's rules against the beef were based on faulty science.
European trade officials have long argued that there could be long-term harmful health effects to humans from treating beef with hormones, and that the effects may not be known for years. The United States counters that Europe's motivation is essentially protectionist, to the point of citing unreliable studies to keep the market closed to competition.
The issue has become a heated political topic in Europe, along with the arguments over whether European rules on banana imports are intended to discriminate against fruit handled by two American companies, Chiquita Brands International and the Dole Foods Company. The United States has begun to impose 100 percent tariffs on $500 million in European luxury good imports in retaliation for Europe's refusal to comply with the trade organization's rulings in that dispute.
Like the banana arguments, the battling over beef hormones has been going on for years, and, as in the banana case, the United States is moving quickly to threaten retaliation. The punitive import fees are intended to create pressure on European politicians from companies that will find themselves virtually unable to ship goods to the United States -- unless they pay a 100 percent tariff, doubling the wholesale price.
While the United States Trade Representative's office published a "target list" of $900 million in goods subject to retaliation, including Swedish hams, that list will be pared significantly before any tariffs go into effect. American beef farmers have put their losses from the hormone ban at several hundred million dollars. The final list is expected to contain about $300 million in European goods sold here.
Before the high tariffs are imposed, the European Union could negotiate some form of compensation for American beef farmers. But today Peter Scher, who heads agricultural negotiations for the Trade Representative's office, said that "compensation is meant to be a bridge to ending the ban, and the E.U. has never made it clear it will comply with the ruling."
Mr. Scher said that negotiations were under way to allow for the hormone-treated beef to be clearly labeled for European consumers, giving shoppers the option to avoid buying it if they chose. But Mr. Scher emphasized that "there is no evidence of any health risks" related to consumption of the beef.
For the Clinton Administration, more is at stake in these battles than beef and bananas. Mr. Clinton has argued that the European Union has to be taught to abide by W.T.O. rulings. The Europeans counter that the United States is jumping the gun, imposing retaliation before the appeals process is complete. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (83%); CQB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (83%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SWEDEN (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION DOLE FOOD CO INC (83%); CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SWEDEN (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEAT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; HORMONES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); BEEF (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); LUXURY GOODS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E PETER SCHER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



482 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Arab Web Censorship;
Pakistan Is Wired

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"The Internet's 'Open Sesame' Is Answered Warily" (Riyadh Journal, March 18) implied that the Internet is banned in many Muslim countries, and is just now slowly being introduced in some of them. But the examples cited include only a few Middle Eastern countries and Iran. 
 In Pakistan use of the Internet has grown quickly over the past five or six years. And Malaysia was planning a "cybercity" to attract business before the recent economic crises there. Even in Bangladesh, nonprofit organizations are providing Internet access to the poor.
Conservatives all over the world are concerned about the effect of pornographic, racist and propaganda on the Web, including the United States, where Congress passed the Communications Decency Act before it was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in 1997.
 
SHAHBAZ CHAUDHARY
Ann Arbor, Mich., March 18, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (77%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; MIDDLE EAST; PAKISTAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (77%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ISLAM; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; CENSORSHIP INTERNET & WWW (91%); CENSORSHIP (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); RELIGION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (51%); 

PERSON: CHAUDHARY, SHAHBAZ

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



483 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices Rise 8 Cents at Pump

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Gasoline prices have risen 8.5 cents a gallon over the last two weeks, and motorists, who had been enjoying the cheapest fuel in a generation, are likely to see further increases in the weeks ahead, energy experts said yesterday.
The increase -- to a nationwide average of $1.0869 cents a gallon at 10,000 gas stations for all grades of gas on Friday -- represents one of the steepest short-term surges since the Persian Gulf war in 1990, according to a report from the Lundberg Survey, a California company that tracks gasoline prices. 
 A coalition of major oil producers, including those from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, announced two weeks ago that it planned to cut production of crude oil by two million barrels a day. OPEC is expected to ratify that decision today. Anticipating these actions, refiners began imposing wholesale price increases weeks ago that are being passed along to consumers. Many experts believe that gasoline prices could increase another 8 to 15 cents a gallon as the summer driving season arrives.
Even after the recent increase, gasoline prices remain extremely low by historical standards.
"They went up? I didn't notice," Yolanda Etaeper said yesterday as she filled up her Toyota at an Exxon station on Dean Drive in Tenafly, N.J., where regular gasoline cost 95.9 cents a gallon, up from 90.9 cents last week. "What can you do? You have to buy gasoline."
Still, the speed and size of the increases at the pump have surprised many drivers and some industry experts, who said oil producers had not yet made a final decision on the level of cutbacks to be absorbed by each country. If OPEC ratifies the proposal made by the coalition of producers two weeks ago, supply would be reduced by two million barrels a day, amounting to 2.6 percent of current global daily production.
Ed Rothshild, a consultant based in Washington, said it was unusual for price increases to arrive at the retail level so soon, even before the production cuts, if they eventually occur, are actually made.
Frederick Leuffer, an oil analyst with Bear, Stearns, said refiners had been able to put through price increases of about 15 cents a gallon on the wholesale level during the last two weeks "because of very strong demand for gasoline."
"It's been up 3.5 to 4 percent this year," he said. "That's a huge jump."
He said refiners were using lower- cost crude that they had bought before the current increase in prices, which will help their profitability.
Generally, it takes several weeks to pass the higher cost of crude on to the wholesale level and then several weeks for retailers to catch up.
This time, Mr. Rothshild said, when crude oil prices began to rise in anticipation of the cuts by the oil producers, the oil industry acted quickly.
And many station owners have scrambled to keep up with their sharply rising wholesale costs. "It's been going up continually," said Denise Pristera, a manager at the Exxon station in Tenafly. "I think it will go up to $1.00 for regular," 5 cents higher than it is now.
Anticipating action by oil producers to cut supply, and seeing unusually strong demand for gasoline by motorists, refiners began to raise prices for gasoline at the wholesale level in some regions as early as mid-February, a few weeks before crude oil prices began to recover.
An informal coalition of oil producers meeting at The Hague, including Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Iran and Venezuela, which are all members of OPEC, as well as Mexico, which is not an OPEC member, resolved early this month to make further cuts in production. All have lost billions of dollars because of the oil glut, and all had made substantial production cuts over the previous year in an effort to raise prices.
Crude oil hit its lowest point this year in mid-February when the price of the benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude dipped to $11.37 in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Crude oil for April delivery rose 26 cents to close yesterday at $15.50 a barrel, the highest closing price since Oct. 2.
Crude oil has been recovering this month ever since major oil producers resolved to limit production, rising by well over $3 a barrel.
Alan Struth, an economist for Phillips Petroleum, said there was generally an increase of 2.4 cents a gallon in the price of gasoline at the retail level for every $1 rise in the price of crude.
Mr. Struth said the increase of 8 cents a gallon at the pump roughly reflects both the higher price of crude and the seasonal introduction of gasoline that produces less pollution but costs more to make.
The industry's profitability has been very low through early March, but is now beginning to recover, he said.
Whether the industry can continue to increase prices is still uncertain, although there are some favorable trends for the producers.
Inventories of gasoline showed a sharp drop last week. Demand has been unusually strong because of a seasonal upturn in driving, the strong economy and the continuing growth in the number of sport utility vehicles, which get lower gas mileage.
Mr. Struth said that if the price of crude rose from the present $15.50 to about $18 a barrel, retail prices could go up another 8 cents a gallon and possibly as much as 15 cents a gallon.
Even with the recent jump, prices were still only about a cent higher than last year and well below a high of $1.33 a gallon in September of 1997, before prices began to weaken. Retail prices can vary because of differences in state taxes.
Michael E. Lattif, the president of Gateway Industries, a company that imports auto parts in Danbury, Conn., maintains a fleet of six vans. He said the higher prices would increase his costs. He watches pump price carefully and keeps up with the latest news from OPEC on the Internet.
"It's been going up all week," he said as he waited for his bill at the Tenafly Exxon station. Still, he viewed the price, 5 cents a gallon higher than the previous week, as a good deal.
"At another station it's gone up about 9 cents a gallon," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Tuesday illustrating a recent increase in gasoline prices misstated the latest national average price for a gallon of regular gasoline, as calculated on Monday by the Energy Information Administration. It is $1.017, not $1.0869.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pumping Up" tracks national average of regular gas prices, plotted weekly, since January 1998. (Source: Energy Information Administration)(pg. C24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION GASOLINE PRICES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (89%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); GASOLINE (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); GAS STATIONS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); DESERT STORM (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS JOHN MAJOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999



484 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3670 words

HEADLINE: 2 Huge Cable TV Companies To Unite in $53 Billion Deal

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
The Comcast Corporation said yesterday that it would acquire Mediaone in a $53 billion takeover that would create the third-largest cable television company in the nation but would have little to do with television.
What is driving this deal is the cable industry's race with telephone companies to offer superfast access to the Internet. Page C1. 
 As the only two industries that have communication cables passing almost every house and business in the country, cable and telephone companies are positioning themselves to grab a share of the other's business.
Indeed, AT&T paid $55 billion this year for the cable provider Tele-Communications Inc. just to get access to wires that can carry phone and Internet services in homes along with television.
Customers of the two cable companies will probably not see their rates decline, even though one reason Mediaone was willing to be acquired was that a merger would reduce the cost the combined company pays for cable programming.
But those savings, as well as any increases in cable rates as industry regulation ends this year, will almost certainly be invested in technology to provide data services -- and eventually phone services -- to consumers.
"There is a race to be first to offer Internet access and ultimately telephone service to the upscale neighborhoods that will buy it first," said Howard Anderson, president of the Yankee Group, a media consulting firm. "It's called the 'first-move advantage.' If customers go with the phone companies, it will be hard, if not impossible to lure them back to cable. So cable companies want to get big so they have as much cash flow as they need to build their Internet business. Size is everything."
Comcast's president, Brian L. Roberts, said that both Comcast and Mediaone raised their rates 5 percent last year, which he called a conservative increase.
And he made a point of warning that any attempt by the Federal Communications Commission to institute price controls on cable rates would harm the cash flow the companies have been investing in upgrading their systems to handle Internet and phone services.
Sharon Ambrust, an analyst at Paul Kagan & Associates, a media consulting firm, said the 5 percent increase imposed last year by both companies was middle of the road.
Comcast has 5.6 million cable subscribers, primarily along the Northeast Corridor from Baltimore through Washington, Delaware, Philadelphia, New Jersey and Connecticut.
Mediaone has about five million customers, most of them in the Boston area, though it also has cable systems in Connecticut.
Philadelphia-based Comcast, with a market value of $24.4 billion, is controlled and managed by the Roberts family through 9.4 million shares that carry 15 votes each. That gives the family 80 percent of all votes. Individual investors own 30 million shares of single-vote stock, and 328.6 million shares of nonvoting stock are owned by institutions.
Since Mediaone is valued at $41.7 billion, Mediaone's president, Charles M. Lillis, was asked at a news conference yesterday why it was not his company that was doing the acquiring.
"The Roberts didn't want to sell," Mr. Lillis said.
But in fact, Mediaone was the more obvious target.
A spinoff of U S West, Mediaone is the only large -- and still independent -- cable company that is not controlled by a single shareholder or family. And it is viewed as having significant room for improved management. Compared with Comcast, whose profit margins on cable operations are about 48 percent, Mediaone has margins of about 38 percent.
Comcast is offering 1.1 of its shares for each of Mediaone's 664 million shares. The Roberts will keep control because all the shares that are being offered are nonvoting stock. Based on the closing stock prices on Friday, before the deal was announced, Comcast was paying $80.16 a share.
The one glitch could arise from Mediaone's relationship with Time Warner. Mediaone owns 25 percent of Time Warner Entertainment, the spinoff that includes Warner Brothers, Home Box Office and 10 million of Time Warner's 12 million cable subscribers.
Mr. Roberts and his father, Ralph J. Roberts, the company's 79-year-old founder and chairman, both said Time Warner's chairman and chief executive, Gerald M. Levin, was supporting the deal.
But some bankers and others suggested that Time Warner, with a market capitalization of $80 billion, could play spoiler by making its own bid for Mediaone.
"We have blocking rights on the sale of Mediaone," a Time Warner spokesman said, emphasizing that it had no plans to do so. But Brian Roberts insisted that Time Warner had no such rights.
Both sides agreed, however, that once the merger was completed, the combined company would not get Mediaone's seat on the management committee of Time Warner cable systems.
Still deals are like courtships, and an unexpected rival can inspire possessive behavior.
As one investment banker put it: "On the one hand, Mediaone has been sitting there for two years. No one made a bid, and Time Warner is the most logical guy given that they already have an interest."
He added, "When somebody says speak now or forever hold your peace," that can prompt a move.
Comcast shares fell $5.375 yesterday, to $64.75; Mediaone stock rose $7.75, to $68.50.
Comcast said cash flow for the merged companies in 2000 would be about $1.9 billion after all savings had been factored in. Brian Roberts said he planned a 5 percent cut to the combined 34,000-person work force. Assuming those factors, Comcast would be paying about 15 times Mediaone's cash flow.
"The deal is the upper end of recent transactions," said Salvatore Muio, who heads his own investment management firm. "However, in a stock deal, that is rather meaningless, since the stock price fluctuates."
When the merger is complete, Mediaone shareholders will own about 64 percent of the equity of the combined companies. Using Friday's closing prices, Comcast's offer represents a 32 percent premium to Friday's close of $60.75.
In the deal, Salomon Smith Barney and Davis Polk Wardell represented Comcast as banker and legal adviser, respectively. Mediaone's investment bankers were Lehman Brothers and Allen & Company. Weil Gotshal & Manges were legal advisers.
As President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico once remarked to me, at the end of the day every global dollar invested in Mexico ends up in a "local" Mexican bank, a "local" Mexican insurance company, a "local" Mexican factory. If Mexico does not have the operating system and rule-of-law software to manage and regulate that dollar, he said, no global institution can save it.
Bad lenders can be just as dangerous as bad borrowers, and some of the worst lenders in recent years have been big banks. A friend of mine in Hong Kong said that during the Asian economic boom, Germany's Dresdner Bank told its managers in Asia, "Lend, lend, lend, otherwise we will lose market share." Banks make money by lending and each one assumed that Asia was a no-brainer. So they shoved money out the door, just like drug dealers expanding their client base. Their message to the developing world was: "C'mon kid. Just try a little of this cash. The first loan's free."
Another form of bad lending is when banks recklessly lend millions of dollars to hedge funds so that they can "leverage" their bets. The hedge funds raise $1 from investors, borrow $9 more from banks and then use that leverage to magnify each of their bets in stocks, bonds, derivatives and currencies around the world. Generally speaking, there is nothing wrong with leverage. Your home mortgage is leverage. You want people to take risks, even crazy risks. This is how fledgling enterprises get financed and either go bankrupt or turn into Microsoft. The danger with leverage derives from the fact that the amounts of money that can be lent to hedge funds or emerging markets today are so enormous, and the system is now so greased and integrated, that when big risk-takers like Long-Term Capital Management make big mistakes they can destabilize everyone.
How to reduce that threat? To begin with, we need to proceed slowly and humbly. By this I mean that we have to understand that the global economic system is still so new and so fast that even the best minds don't fully understand how it works. Right now, our understanding of the globalization system is about as sophisticated as our understanding of the cold-war system was in 1946. Alan Greenspan is a lifelong scholar of international finance. But when I asked him in December about the logic of today's integrated global market, he gave me a rare on-the-record quote that should humble us all. "I have learned more about how this new international financial system works in the last 12 months," he said, "than in the previous 20 years."
Some have proposed that we put a little sand in the gears of the global economy to slow it down a bit. My response would be that I don't think it is ever very wise to put sand in the gears of a machine when you don't fully understand how it works. It might not just slow down. It could come to a screeching, metal-bending halt. Also, where do you put the sand when you are dealing with a fund manager sitting in Connecticut using the Internet to invest in Brazil via a bank domiciled offshore in Panama? Ever try to put sand in cyberspace? Well, then, how about setting up a global central bank? That may be a good idea, but it's not something that is going to happen anytime soon -- not as long as we all still live in 200-odd different countries.
So does that mean that there is nothing we can do? No. The good news is that in the wake of the crisis of 1998-99 the market on its own is brutally disciplining itself. You see signs of this everywhere. The chief executives of some of the biggest banks in the world -- Barclays P.L.C., BankAmerica, United Bank of Switzerland -- were all ousted in 1998, after huge losses in high-risk emerging markets.
In the wake of these beheadings, those major banks have restricted leverage, cutting off reckless fund managers, demanding more documentation from those to whom they are still lending and scrutinizing more seriously not just the balance-of-payments figures of emerging markets but also their operating systems, legal systems and overall software.
Banks and investors have started asking fund managers tough questions about their exposure to risks and what defensive measures they have taken. And the International Monetary Fund, the Treasury and fund managers have belatedly started asking emerging-market countries what they are doing to improve their financial and regulatory systems.
The only realistic solution for now is to take this ad hoc approach, intensify it and extend it into the future. If everyone from the I.M.F. to Merrill Lynch to my Aunt Bev would just ask these questions more often, and keep asking them, we'd have a chance of preventing two out of the next five crises and limiting the impact of one of the next five. That's the most we can hope for.
Sure, this doesn't seem very sexy -- calling on everyone in the system to become a better regulator, a smarter investor and a more prudent lender. But it's time we stopped kidding ourselves. Today's markets are so big and, with the advent of the Internet, becoming so fast that they can never be immunized from crises.
Global financial crises will be the norm in the coming era. In fact, let me leave you, dear readers, with one piece of advice: Fasten your seat belts and put your seat backs and tray tables into a fixed and upright position. Because the booms and the busts and the recoveries will all be coming faster. So get used to it, and just try to make sure that the leverage in the system doesn't become so great in any one area that it can make the whole system go boom or bust. Anyone who tells you that they have a plan for eliminating these crises is just pulling your leg. In fact, as you are reading these words, the next global financial crisis is already germinating somewhere.
 
Geopolitics
It is not easy for this generation of Americans to grasp how important the United States is to the world in the era of globalization. America today is the Michael Jordan of geopolitics -- the overwhelmingly dominant system. Now Jordan was good, and his opponents both loved and hated playing against him. Everyone wanted to be like Mike. But as good as Jordan was, he was nothing without all the other teams in the N.B.A. to showcase his skills -- and we're nothing without the rest of the world, which is why managing globalization is a role from which America dare not shrink.
Historically, the United States has either been isolated from world affairs or deeply engaged as part of a moral crusade to fend off an aggressive, threatening power. Isolation is easy to explain and understand. Engagement in a bipolar world -- with a menacing, nuclear-armed Soviet bear growling on the other side -- was easy to explain and understand. But what is not easy to explain or understand is engagement in a world in which America is the biggest beneficiary and the sole superpower, with multiple secondary powers and no immediately visible threat, but with many little threats and an abstract globalization system to maintain. But this is the world we have. And in this world we can't afford either to retreat into isolation or to wait around for some smaller adversary to become a life-threatening foe.
As I have noted before, globalization and economic integration will act, to some degree, as a restraint on those states that are plugged into the system and dependent upon the electronic herd. It's true that no two countries that both have a McDonald's have ever fought a war since they each got their McDonald's. (I call this the Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention.) But globalization does not end geopolitics -- the enduring quest for power, the fear of neighbors, the tug of history. What globalization does is simply put a different frame around geopolitics, a frame that raises the costs of war but cannot eliminate it.
That is why sustainable globalization still requires a stable, geopolitical power structure, which simply cannot be maintained without the active involvement of the United States. All the technologies that Silicon Valley is designing to carry digital voices, videos and data around the world, all the trade and financial integration it is promoting through its innovations and all the wealth this is generating, are happening in a world stabilized by a benign superpower, with its capital in Washington, D.C.
The hidden hand of the market will never work without a hidden fist -- McDonald's cannot flourish without McDonnell Douglas, the builder of the F-15. And the hidden fist that keeps the world safe for Silicon Valley's technologies is called the United States Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps. "Good ideas and technologies need a strong power that promotes those ideas by example and protects those ideas by winning on the battlefield," says the foreign policy historian Robert Kagan. "If a lesser power were promoting our ideas and technologies, they would not have the global currency that they have. And when a strong power, the Soviet Union, promoted its bad ideas, they had a lot of currency for more than half a century."
This is too easily forgotten today. For too many executives in Silicon Valley, there is no geography or geopolitics anymore. There are only stock options and electrons. Their view that Washington is the enemy, and that any tax dollar paid there is a tax dollar wasted, is grotesque. There is a saying in Silicon Valley that "loyalty is just one mouse-click away." But you can take that too far. Execs there make boasts like: "We are not an American company. We are I.B.M. U.S., I.B.M. Canada, I.B.M. Australia, I.B.M. China." Oh, yeah? Then, the next time I.B.M. China gets in trouble in China, call Jiang Zemin for help. And the next time Congress closes another military base in Asia, call Microsoft's navy to secure the sea lanes of the Pacific. And the next time Congress wants to close more consulates and embassies, call Amazon.com to order a new passport.
This doesn't mean America needs to be involved everywhere all the time. There are big, important places and there are small, unimportant places. Diplomacy is about knowing the difference between the two, and knowing how to mobilize others to act where we cannot or should not act alone.
In such a world, pure realism and pure idealism are rarely the answer. The realists would say, Stay away from Kosovo, even if the conflict could spill over to Greece and Turkey; the idealists argue that we should invade Serbia with NATO forces, break off Kosovo, make it an independent state and defend it forever. Both are wrong.
The lesson I learned from Bosnia is that Americans do not want to watch innocent civilians slaughtered in Europe, especially when we have the resources to make a difference at a reasonable cost. And they are right. But those who argued that no NATO peacekeeping operation would be workable in Bosnia until the parties were exhausted and there was a balance of power on the ground were also right. When you talk to American troops and officers who have served in Bosnia as peacekeepers, they don't tell you that they feel stuck in some morass. They are genuinely proud of what they are doing and vastly prefer that to parading around the flagpole at Fort Hood.
In Kosovo, the instinct of the Clinton Administration to nudge the parties toward a settlement before another massacre, and to leverage American power -- sending 4,000 peacekeepers to the Europeans' 25,000 -- basically makes sense. If the parties in Kosovo are ready to make peace, America, as a European power, should be prepared to play a part in patrolling the fence between them. If they are not, we should build a fence around them and use our leverage to foster a balance of power.
This same delicate balance applies to China. America's China policy oscillates between the Boeing School (just do business and everything will take care of itself) and the neoconservative school (China is a new version of the old Soviet Union and must be contained). Both are wrong. We do not want a cold war with China if we can avoid it.
China is not the Soviet Union, which made television sets that blew up and tractors that were more valuable as scrap metal. China is one-fifth of humanity and an economic powerhouse. It is also changing profoundly because of its openness to the world, and anyone who visits there regularly can see that it's Madison, not Mao, who's winning the day there. The right approach to China is to build bridges where possible -- to nurture that openness -- and draw redlines where necessary when Chinese actions become destabilizing. And some days you have to draw redlines in the morning and build bridges in the afternoon. We get in trouble when we do only one and not the other.
In order to sustain such policies, proponents of internationalism are going to have to build a new coalition to support it. The constituency that sustained internationalism for 50 years was the so-called Eastern Intellectual Establishment. That establishment, to the extent it even exists today, doesn't carry much weight with the I'm-an-idiot-and-proud-of-it Congressmen, who boast that they never travel abroad and, in some cases, don't even hold passports.
The next Administration, whether Democratic or Republican, will have to try to bring together the new globalizers -- from software writers to Web-page designers, from Iowa farmers to environmental activists, from human rights campaigners to high-tech assembly-line workers -- to form a new, 21st-century coalition that can sustain internationalism. This new coalition doesn't exist yet, so someone is going to have to put it together.
This won't be easy. Americans were ready to pay any price and bear any burden in the cold war because there was a compelling and immediate sense that their own homes and way of life were threatened. But a large majority don't feel that way about North Korea, Iraq or Kosovo, and while Russia may still have the capability to pose a lethal threat, it is not doing so at this time. That's why Americans are in the odd position now of being held responsible for everything, while being reluctant to die for anything. That's why in the globalization era, counterinsurgency is out; baby-sitting is in. House-to-house fighting is out; cruise missiles are in. Green Berets are out; U.N. blue helmets are in.
America truly is the ultimate benign superpower and reluctant enforcer. But history teaches us that if you take this reluctance too far, you can undermine the whole system. Paul Schroeder, emeritus professor of international history at the University of Illinois, is one of the great international historians of the 20th century. He once remarked to me: "If you look at history, the periods of relative peace are those in which there is a durable, stable and tolerable hegemon, who does the adjusting and preserves the minimal necessary norms and rules of the game. And that hegemon always pays a disproportionate share of the collective costs, even forgoes opportunities for conquest or restrains itself in other ways, so as not to build up resentments and to make sure the system stays tolerable for others.
"The difficulty," Schroeder continued, "comes when the benign hegemonic power, which is responsible for keeping the system stable, is unable or unwilling to pay the disproportionate costs to do so, or its hegemony becomes intolerable and predatory rather than benign, or when enough actors rebel against its rules and insist upon a different kind of system that may not benefit that hegemon."
That is what we must avoid. The global system cannot hold together without an activist and generous American foreign and defense policy. Without America on duty, there will be no America Online. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the Comcast Corporation's acquisition of Mediaone misstated the name of the law firm that represented Comcast. It is Davis Polk & Wardwell, not Davis Polk Wardell.
An article on page 40 of The Times Magazine today, about the responsibility of the United States as the world's remaining superpower, contains several outdated references to the conflict in Kosovo and what role the United States should have in ending it. The NATO bombing raids now under way in Yugoslavia began after the magazine was printed.

GRAPHIC: Chart:
 
COMCAST
HEADQUARTERS -- Philadelphia
EMPLOYEES -- 17,000
PRESIDENT -- Brian L. Roberts
CABLE SUBSCRIBERS -- 5.6 million
BUSINESS HOLDINGS INCLUDE
Partnership with At Home
57 percent of QVC
79 percent of E! Entertainment Television with the Walt Disney Company.
66 percent of Comcast-Spectator, which owns and operates the Philadelphia 76ers, the Philadelphia Flyers and two sports and entertainment arenas: Corestates Spectrum and Corestates Center.
 
MEDIAONE
HEADQUARTERS -- Englewood, Colo.
EMPLOYEES -- 16,000
PRESIDENT -- Charles M. Lillis
CABLE SUBSCRIBERS -- 5 million
BUSINESS HOLDINGS INCLUDE
25 percent ownership of Time Warner Cable and Warner Brothers Studio/H.B.O.
Mediaone Interactive Services, which invests in Internet service and technology companies.
Mediaone International, which has an average 37 percent stake in numerous ventures from Britain to Indonesia providing around eight million people with cable, telephone and wireless service.
 
(Sources: Company reports)(pg. C4) Photos: Where once there were superpowers, now there are "supermarkets." Left to right, the stock exchanges in Moscow, Tokyo and Hong Kong.; Global financial crises will be the norm of the coming era. Left to right, the stock exchanges in New York, Frankfurt and Jakarta. (Susan Alinsangan/Graphistock Inc. Globe: Peter Zeray/Photonica.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (95%); CCV (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP; MEDIAONE (CO) COMCAST CORP (95%); YANKEE GROUP (54%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (59%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (59%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (59%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMCAST CORP; MEDIAONE (CO) PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (59%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (59%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (59%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CABLE TELEVISIONTerms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MERGERS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE BRIAN L ROBERTS (68%); BRADBURY H ANDERSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



485 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 12; Column 1; Health & Fitness

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Early Eating Habits Tied to Adult Ills

BYLINE: By ERIC NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Two new studies lend support to the view that by the time children enter elementary school they may have eating and other health habits that will play a major role in the problems they may suffer in later life, including heart disease, high blood pressure and possibly diabetes.
Health experts said the findings suggested that it was never too soon to teach children good dietary habits, as well the importance of exercise. This is especially true for black and Mexican-American children. As early as age 6, one of the studies found, they show significant health differences, over all, in comparison with non-Hispanic white children. 
 One study, to be reported today in Circulation, the journal of the American Heart Association, was conducted by Dr. Alan R. Sinaiko of the University of Minnesota Medical School in Minneapolis and colleagues, beginning in 1977. It involved 679 public schoolchildren who were followed from age 7 through 23. Over the years, the children were periodically examined to determine their weight, body mass index -- considered a more accurate gauge of overall health -- and blood pressure. As adults, they gave blood samples that were tested for cholesterol and insulin levels.
The researchers found that body weight during childhood, and especially the rate at which the weight was gained, was a good indicator of whether an adult would exhibit risk factors for cardiovascular disease and diabetes. This was especially true for insulin resistance syndrome, a condition associated with obesity.
"The prevalence of overweight in youth is increasing," the report noted. "On the basis of the data from this study, it can be expected that there will be a steady increase in the number of at-risk individuals as today's children become adults."
The second study, described in the March 17 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association, involved differences in cardiovascular risk factors among children in various ethnic groups.
It has long been established that blacks and people of Hispanic descent suffer from the disease at a greater rates than non-Hispanic whites. But the Stanford scientists report they could detect differences in the risk factors for the disease as early as age 6 in some cases.
They also found that while poor nutrition and low income often went hand in hand, the health differences between white and black children, and white and Mexican-American ones, appeared to transcend economic factors.
Among the health indicators researchers looked at were body mass index, fat intake, blood pressure and cholesterol. In most categories, they found significantly higher problems in the minority children studied.
While there may be many reasons behind the differences, from genetics to culture, the lead author of the study, Dr. Marilyn A. Winkleby, said many could be linked to a lack of knowledge about basic nutrition. She said more should be done to design nutrition education programs for blacks and Mexican-Americans. She also said much more should be done to encourage physical activity among children, and suggested that minority neighborhoods have not been provided with enough good sports facilities.
"That's just a priority of our society," she said. "It's something that it's not hard to do. It's cost effective in the long run."
The study drew on data gathered by the third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, conducted by the Federal Government from 1988 to 1994. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (87%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (87%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DIABETES (91%); HEART DISEASE (90%); NUTRITION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CHOLESTEROL (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); OBESITY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (77%); HYPERTENSION (77%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1999



486 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 23, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 12; Column 1; Health & Fitness

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Early Eating Habits Tied to Adult Ills

BYLINE: By ERIC NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Two new studies lend support to the view that by the time children enter elementary school they may have eating and other health habits that will play a major role in the problems they may suffer in later life, including heart disease, high blood pressure and possibly diabetes.
Health experts said the findings suggested that it was never too soon to teach children good dietary habits, as well the importance of exercise. This is especially true for black and Mexican-American children. As early as age 6, one of the studies found, they show significant health differences, over all, in comparison with non-Hispanic white children. 
 One study, to be reported today in Circulation, the journal of the American Heart Association, was conducted by Dr. Alan R. Sinaiko of the University of Minnesota Medical School in Minneapolis and colleagues, beginning in 1977. It involved 679 public schoolchildren who were followed from age 7 through 23. Over the years, the children were periodically examined to determine their weight, body mass index -- considered a more accurate gauge of overall health -- and blood pressure. As adults, they gave blood samples that were tested for cholesterol and insulin levels.
The researchers found that body weight during childhood, and especially the rate at which the weight was gained, was a good indicator of whether an adult would exhibit risk factors for cardiovascular disease and diabetes. This was especially true for insulin resistance syndrome, a condition associated with obesity.
"The prevalence of overweight in youth is increasing," the report noted. "On the basis of the data from this study, it can be expected that there will be a steady increase in the number of at-risk individuals as today's children become adults."
The second study, described in the March 17 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association, involved differences in cardiovascular risk factors among children in various ethnic groups.
It has long been established that blacks and people of Hispanic descent suffer from the disease at a greater rates than non-Hispanic whites. But the Stanford scientists report they could detect differences in the risk factors for the disease as early as age 6 in some cases.
They also found that while poor nutrition and low income often went hand in hand, the health differences between white and black children, and white and Mexican-American ones, appeared to transcend economic factors.
Among the health indicators researchers looked at were body mass index, fat intake, blood pressure and cholesterol. In most categories, they found significantly higher problems in the minority children studied.
While there may be many reasons behind the differences, from genetics to culture, the lead author of the study, Dr. Marilyn A. Winkleby, said many could be linked to a lack of knowledge about basic nutrition. She said more should be done to design nutrition education programs for blacks and Mexican-Americans. She also said much more should be done to encourage physical activity among children, and suggested that minority neighborhoods have not been provided with enough good sports facilities.
"That's just a priority of our society," she said. "It's something that it's not hard to do. It's cost effective in the long run."
The study drew on data gathered by the third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, conducted by the Federal Government from 1988 to 1994. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (87%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (87%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DIABETES (91%); HEART DISEASE (90%); NUTRITION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CHOLESTEROL (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); OBESITY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (77%); HYPERTENSION (77%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1999



487 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 11; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Dining a la Garbo: Alone, Not Lonely

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
WE were four strangers. Each of us had happened upon a narrow, smoky Alsatian restaurant in an unfashionable part of Paris and taken a seat around the right-angled end of the bar. Before long, we found ourselves in a lively conversation about the rise of the supermarket in France and the decline of the small bakeries and food shops. We debated whether golf was a bore and argued over the Frenchman's insistence that Alsatian pinot noir was the only wine to drink with sauerkraut.
It was the sort of experience that is almost unthinkable in New York. 
 Dining alone in the United States is not exactly unpleasant, but it is often uncomfortable. Solo diners, escaping briefly from the office, may be common at lunch, but at dinner, when the demands of the workaday world are put aside, they are considered downright strange.
Americans think of dining out primarily as a social activity, an entertainment to be enjoyed with company. It falls into the category of going to a movie, where couples and groups are the norm, rather than a bookstore, where the lone browser is accepted. A solo diner, intent simply on savoring a dinner, is assumed to be missing out on a key element of the experience, and therefore must be lonely, sad or depressed.
"They look at them, and they say: 'He doesn't have friends. How come he's by himself?' " said Jean-Claude Iacovelli, who grew up outside Paris and who now owns three restaurants in downtown Manhattan, Jean-Claude, SoHo Steak and Velli.
More than a few times, I remember showing up by myself at restaurants in New York, only to be welcomed by the host's raised eyebrows of surprise and an almost imperceptible flash of pity. Seating is generally behind a pillar or near the kitchen, presumably to keep the lonely fly from spoiling the otherwise happy soup.
Things might be different at a local diner or cafe, where being a regular may take the sting out of solitude, but show up alone often enough and even a welcome familiarity may be tinged with pity.
"People in our society think strangely of people dining alone in restaurants," said Joseph Bastianich, an owner of Babbo restaurant in Greenwich Village. "It's much more a part of everyday life in Europe."
But if you talk with restaurateurs, solo diners are not actually that uncommon in New York. Often they are business travelers, on their own in a strange place and unwilling to settle for room service or the hotel dining room. But for the most part, solo diners in New York are like asteroids in orbit, circling endlessly without ever bumping into one another. That's why my experience at Alsaco, the little restaurant in Paris, seemed so unusual.
We made an odd foursome, for sure. A Frenchman in a dark blue sweater dotted with cigarette ashes who whipped out a wood-handled switchblade to saw off slices of his boiled pig's knuckle; an elderly Englishman in a fine old tweed jacket, who consumed a platter of grilled pork sausages slowly and meticulously; a Belgian shoe designer with the thick neck and powerful arms of a rugby player, who inhaled his soup as if he had a train to catch, and I, savoring a huge plate of juniper-scented choucroute garnie.
We didn't exactly burst into conversation. But a tarte flambee, my first course, was the icebreaker. They stared as the waitress set the huge tart in front of me. The flat, crisp crust was shaped like a map of western Europe, topped with cream, onions and bacon. It was delicious, as they all agreed after I gave them each a slice. Why not? It was way too much for me to finish, and soon we were all breaking bread.
"So," the Englishman asked the Belgian, "when you were just a small boy did you turn to your daddy and say, 'I want to be a shoe designer when I grow up?' "
American attitudes toward solo diners may not be relaxed enough to permit such acceptance or intimacies, partly because of restaurant economics. In New York, at least, the restaurant business depends more on volume than in Paris, and the sight of one person sitting at a table for two stirs visions of red ink among owners. What's more, lone diners usually drink proportionally less than groups, further cutting the profit margin.
But to an increasing number of New York restaurateurs, that attitude is shortsighted. Single diners may not maximize profits initially, but they may create new business. "Single diners are always the most open, and a lot end up being very interactive with the server," said Mr. Bastianich of Babbo. "It's a good opportunity to show what your restaurant is about."
Rather than sticking the single diner near the bathrooms or kitchen, thoughtful restaurateurs do things like making the bar comfortable for a meal, as at O Padeiro, a Portuguese restaurant in Chelsea, where the handsome bar is small but spacious enough to accommodate diners rather than just drinkers. More restaurants, like Mercer Kitchen, Tabla and Asia de Cuba, are adding communal tables, which would seem like natural places to seat single diners, although more often than not these seats go to groups. Most important, though, is simple consideration and sensitive antennae.
"We put them at a good table where they can be comfortable," said Mr. Iacovelli, who says he regularly serves solo diners from the Mercer and SoHo Grand Hotels. "If they have a book, we put them in a corner. If they want to talk, we pay attention."
Paying attention sometimes has its own rewards. In Paris, as I was wondering what to have for dessert, the Frenchman insisted I try the gewurztraminer sorbet. I did, and it was wonderfully refreshing, the perfect finish to the meal. Without the fellow sitting next to me, I never would have known.
 
Six Comfortable Spots for Solo Dining
 
NOT every restaurant in New York treats solo diners as annoyances. Friendly bartenders and waiters can be pleasantly social, though restaurants should also be sensitive to those who simply want to be left alone. A good list of wines by the glass is also a boon. Here are six places where lone diners can be especially comfortable:
BABBO -- 110 Waverly Place (Avenue of the Americas); (212) 777-0303.
Dining alone can actually be an advantage at this spare and casual trattoria, where tables are harder to come by than seats at the handsome bar. Many unusual wines are available by the glass.
CAFE DE BRUXELLES -- 118 Greenwich Avenue (13th Street); (212) 206-1830.
The small tables near the battered zinc bar of this venerable Belgian restaurant are good for solo diners. Mussels and frites make for a nice midsize meal, with one of the excellent Belgian beers.
CAVIAR RUSSE -- 538 Madison Avenue (54th Street); (212) 980-5908.
This old-fashioned caviar parlor is perfect for solitary celebrations. The star of the show is available in tiny tastes or in more serious portions.
GOTHAM BAR AND GRILL -- 12 East 12th Street (Fifth Avenue); (212) 620-4020.
Eating in Gotham's spacious, soaring dining room always feels like one of New York's great privileges. The lively bar along one side of the room caters to solo diners, beginning with the special trays, designed by the chef, Alfred Portale, that bridge the gap between bar and railing.
 O PADEIRO -- 641 Avenue of the Americas (20th Street); (212) 414-9661.
This combination bakery, cafe, takeout shop and restaurant offers a terrific selection of Portuguese tapas, allowing lone diners, seated at the bar or at one of the small tables, a variety of tastes without having to share. Portuguese wines are also available in small tasting portions.
 REPUBLIC -- 37 Union Square West (16th Street); (212) 627-7172.
The long slate counter with a view of the open kitchen at this stylish Asian noodle house is just right for solo diners and more pleasant than the backless benches at the noisy dining-room tables. ERIC ASIMOV
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Judy Glasser)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PARIS (FRANCE); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAIL BAKERIES (73%); BOOKSTORES (71%); 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC JEAN-CLAUDE IACOVELLI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



488 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Britain's Truckers Feel New Pressures

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: ISLE OF SHEPPEY, England, March 23

 BODY:
When European nations hang out their shingles to attract foreign investors, Britain's appeal runs something like this: come to Britain for low labor costs, low taxes, low overhead.
Ron Wood doesn't think so. 
 Mr. Wood, a trucker based on this marshy island at the mouth of the River Thames, runs 20 rigs carrying construction equipment the length and breadth of Britain. And, when the Government announced a 10 percent rise in the price of diesel fuel and a 50 percent increase in some truckers' license fees in its annual budget this month, Mr. Wood decided it was time to move, legally at least.
So, Mr. Wood plans to set up a subsidiary in the Netherlands -- R. W. Haulage International -- where his trucks will be licensed as Dutch trucks. As European Union vehicles, they will have the same access to British roads as any other European truck. But, since the Netherlands, like the rest of Continental Europe, has much lower license fees than Britain -- roughly $1,100 per vehicle in the Netherlands, compared with $9,000 in Britain -- Mr. Wood expects to save $160,000 annually for his $5-million-a-year business. Despite the Dutch registry, he will continue to pay relatively low British wages and British taxes.
Others are pondering similar calculations. After this month's budget, some 1,500 haulers called the Road Haulage Association, which represents about a third of Britain's haulers, to inquire about the technicalities of incorporating in Continental Europe, said Steve Williams, a representative of the association.
One of Britain's biggest operators, Eddie Stobart, whose fleet comprises 800 trucks each bearing a different woman's name, is thinking about registering 200 of his rigs in Luxembourg, and "may rename them Helga or Nicole," a spokeswoman for him said.
So incensed are Britain's truckers that hundreds of them, including Mr. Wood, clogged central London with their rigs yesterday in protest.
By moving abroad, the haulers will be reversing a trend of Continental companies seeking tax breaks in Britain, opening one of the first chinks in Britain's argument that alone among Europe's major economies, it is a haven from high costs.
"The problem is that haulage is now becoming a very European business," Mr. Williams said. "So European haulers can come in here and work without paying the same costs as we do. It's not a very level playing field."
The decision by Mr. Wood, 48, and others to "flag out" their vehicles in foreign lands is the latest sign of unease among Britons that while their Government tells them direct taxes are falling, a combination of indirect taxes and retailers' margins means they pay more for fuel, cars, computers, cigarettes, liquor and many goods than anyone else in Europe or the United States.
British truckers now pay the highest fuel and license fees in Europe -- more than $5 a gallon for diesel fuel, twice what it costs in Luxembourg -- and up to $9,000 a year to license a single 40-ton, five-axle rig, 17 times the cost in Luxembourg.
Since a European Union directive in 1998, moreover, all European Union road haulers have been permitted to carry loads not simply into and out of any country in the union but also to carry loads internally. Consequently, European trucking companies are rolling into Britain and offering to haul goods at one-third Mr. Wood's price.
A German truck, for instance, powered by cheap diesel fuel purchased in Belgium or France before crossing the Channel, can pick up a load of steel in Sheffield and drop it off in London -- a practice that was once banned -- without paying British license fees.
The British authorities, though, contend that the battle is really not about competitiveness but cleanliness, pitting pounds and pennies against environmental policies intended to meet Britain's international commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The price rises on pollutants like diesel fuel, said Vickie Sheriff, a spokeswoman for the Department of the Environment, Transport and Regions, are offset by lower prices for cleaner fuels like low-sulfur diesel and unleaded gasoline.
"The principle is that the polluter pays," she said. Trucks with six axles, similarly, qualify for much lower license fees than five-axle rigs because they do less damage to the highways.
According to the Road Haulage Association, Britain's 65,000 hauling businesses employ 500,000 drivers and a similar number of ancillary workers, carry 1.65 billion tons of goods a year -- four-fifths of all domestic freight -- and contribute over $7.4 billion of the $49.5 billion the Government collects in excise and fuel taxes and duties. The latest price increases, Mr. Williams said, will jeopardize 50,000 of those jobs.
Of course, jobs pay less in Britain than in much of Continental Europe because hourly wages are generally lower, and Britain does not insist on the same levels of social spending, personal taxes or corporate taxes. Indeed, John Reid, the Transport Minister, said, "Britain is not only cheaper than our major European rivals when it comes to road transport, but comes out almost on top of the list worldwide."
"Haulers who are thinking of relocating to other European countries should consider these facts very carefully before making a decision," he added.
What the authorities are not considering, Mr. Wood contends, is that continental European haulers operating in Britain "have already made their profit by the time they arrive" with a tankful of cheap diesel fuel. They offer internal hauling in Britain at a discount rather than return home empty.
"Originally flagging-out was meant as a threat," Mr. Williams said, "but now it's becoming a reality because so many people have had problems with the budget."
Or, as Mr. Wood put it, "I'd rather go to Holland than go out of business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Wood, who operates 20 rigs carrying construction equipment in Britain, plans to set up a Netherlands subsidiary to avoid licensing costs that are much higher at home. Diesel fuel also costs more in Britain. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; TAXATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SALES TAX (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TRENDS (71%); DIESEL FUEL (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); RETAILERS (60%); RIVERS (57%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN STEVE WILLIAMS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



489 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Europe Power-Plant Venture to Overtake G.E.

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ZURICH, March 23

 BODY:
ABB Asea Brown Boveri, the world's leading electrical-engineering company, and Alstom S.A. of France have agreed to combine their power-plant manufacturing units as recessions in Asia cut profits.
The joint venture, with $11 billion in annual sales, will leapfrog the General Electric Company of the United States to become the world's biggest maker of generating equipment. Alstom, the world's second-largest maker of energy-distribution equipment, will pay ABB $1.5 billion to set up ABB Alstom Power, and officials said some of the current 54,000 jobs would be eliminated. 
 Power-plant makers are combining as demand shrinks in Asia -- once the fastest-growing market -- and other developing economies, dragging down prices and profit. Last year, Siemens of Germany agreed to buy Westinghouse Power Generation from CBS for $1.2 billion.
"I have no doubt this can be a successful venture because size matters in this business," said Michael Krinner, a fund manager at Bank Fuer Handel & Effekten here.
Alstom, which was owned by Alcatel of France before its 1998 spinoff and share offering, also agreed to sell its heavy-duty gas turbine business to G.E. for $910 million, unwinding a 1989 technology-sharing joint venture. For G.E., the purchase will help it expand in Europe and bolster its business of selling service contracts with equipment, which is lucrative because it locks in revenue over many years.
ABB, a huge Swiss-Swedish company focused on energy, and Alstom are setting up the power plant unit, to be based in Brussels, as both try to increase earnings by reorganizing. Last year, ABB eliminated 14,000 jobs, or 6.5 percent of its work force, and acquired Elsag Bailey Process Automation N.V. for $2.1 billion to emphasize the profitable business of controls and measuring devices for industries ranging from electric power to drugs. And Alstom is streamlining operations after selling shares to investors last year.
ABB gets about a fifth of its revenue in Asia. Goeran Lindahl, its chief executive, said in Brussels today that the company planned to use the $1.5 billion payment from Alstom to make acquisitions similar to that of Elsag Bailey.
The two will own ABB Alstom Power equally, though ABB's power plant business is much larger, with $8 billion in sales, just below G.E.'s $8.5 billion. The joint venture may save $450 million a year by 2002, the companies said. Claude Darmon, the deputy chief executive of Alstom, will be chief executive of the unit, and Mr. Lindahl will be chairman.
Mr. Lindahl said today that Alstom's sale to G.E. of the turbine business removed concerns about regulatory approval of the joint venture. Approval is required from the European Union and individual governments, which Mr. Lindahl said he expected in three to four months.
The cost of setting up the new unit will result in a one-time charge of about 600 million euros, or $655 million, for the two companies, Mr. Lindahl said. He added that jobs would be cut at ABB Alstom Power, though he would not say how many. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABJA (FRA) (97%); ABJ (FRA) (97%); ABBN (SWX) (97%); ABB (STO) (97%); ABB (NYSE) (97%); ABB (NSE) (97%); ALO (PAR) (95%); SIN (SWX) (90%); SIE (LSE) (90%); SIE (FRA) (90%); SIE (BIT) (90%); SI (NYSE) (90%); GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (97%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (97%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (97%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (97%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (95%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (95%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (95%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (95%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (95%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (74%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (86%); ZURICH (74%); 

COMPANY: ABB ASEA BROWN BOVERI; ALSTOM SA; ABB ALSTOM POWER; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO ABB LTD (97%); ALSTOM SA (95%); SIEMENS AG (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABB ASEA BROWN BOVERI; ALSTOM SA; ABB ALSTOM POWER; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); GERMANY (71%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (74%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (86%); ZURICH (74%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; INDUSTRY PROFILES ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); APPROVALS (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (71%); TRENDS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (66%); 

PERSON: DARMON, CLAUDE; LINDAHL, GOERAN GOERAN LINDAHL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



490 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Up As Investors Focus on Issue From AT&T

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Government securities rose modestly yesterday as investors focused primarily on the AT&T Corporation's record-setting global bond offering priced earlier in the day.
Treasury bonds received a lift from the huge corporate offering as securities firms that underwrote the issue bought back Treasuries they had sold as a hedge against losses. Also, a slumping stock market added to the buying momentum as investors sought refuge from equities. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 12/32, to 95 26/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.54 percent, from 5.57 percent on Monday.
To help meet strong investor demand, AT&T sold $8 billion of debt in a global offering, increasing the size of the deal from the $7 billion announced on Monday, which itself was an increase from the initially planned $5 billion to $6 billion. Appetite for the deal, which was underwritten by Merrill Lynch & Company and Salomon Smith Barney Inc., far outstripped supply, with about $12 billion in orders received, according to some traders.
The company had filed registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission for permission to sell as much as $13 billion of debt and plans to borrow more this year, possibly $3 billion.
The deal included $2 billion of five-year notes, up from $1.75 billion, and priced to yield 5.735 percent, or about 64 basis points more than Treasury securities with a similar maturity; $3 billion of 10-year notes, up from $2.5 billion, at a yield of 6.032 percent, or 84 basis points over Treasuries with a similar maturity; and $3 billion of 30-year bonds, up from $2.75 billion, priced to yield 6.582 percent, or about 94 basis points over similar Treasuries.
When it was priced, AT&T's debt offering became the largest investment-grade deal ever in the corporate bond market. And because of its size, it took on bellwether status, becoming part of the Lehman bond index. Inclusion in the index fueled demand from institutional investors.
Before AT&T's offering, Worldcom Inc., now known as MCI Worldcom, held the record for the largest high-grade deal after selling $6.1 billion in debt last August.
Joseph Battipaglia, chief investment strategist for Gruntal & Company, said the deal came in at a slight discount to where other single-A-rated corporate bonds are trading. "Yes," he said, "the securities have fair market value, which is where you would expect them to be selling if you wanted them to move from off the shelf and into the hands of investors."
Andrew C. Palmer, a managing director and corprate bond manager at ASB Capital Management, a company in Washington with more than $6 billion in bonds, said: "After all, the AT&T issue had been expected for quite some time and the bonds had been discounted over and over again, tightened a bit when they became too cheap, then discounted again. Right now I think the deal has a fair market value."
AT&T, based in New York, was in the market to sell bonds for the first time in almost four years to help pay for recent acquisitions. "This is going to be a bellwether corporate bond," Mr. Palmer said. "It will also be a popular deal for nondomestic investors who tend to buy the names they know, and AT&T they know."
Traders said another reason for the strong demand was that there was little likelihood that the company would turn into a high-yield company overnight.
The company recently completed its $32 billion purchase of Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's second-largest cable provider. It is also paying $5.5 billion to a TCI unit, Liberty Media, and acquiring I.B.M.'s global network business for $5 billion in cash.
AT&T's debt is rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service and AA- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
The Treasury will auction $15 billion of new two-year notes today that were being offered at a price to yield 4.97 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; AT&T CORP AT&T INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (62%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (62%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; AT&T CORP SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT BONDS (95%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



491 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: California Utility Buying 16 Illinois Plants

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 23

 BODY:
Edison International, California's second-biggest utility, agreed today to buy 16 power plants in Illinois from the Unicom Corporation for $4.8 billion in cash to expand into the Midwest.
Edison, which serves 4.3 million customers through its Southern California Edison unit, will get plants that can produce enough power to light 9.8 million homes. Six of the biggest plants are fired by coal, the cheapest fuel used to generate electricity. 
 Unicom, the owner of Chicago's dominant utility, is selling the plants to prepare for deregulation in Illinois. Edison's California market was opened to competition last year and is looking for revenue sources in other states. The Unicom purchase gives it access to the fast-growing Midwest electricity market, where there is a shortage of power at times of peak demand.
"It's a shrewd move," said Edward Tirello, an analyst with BT Alex. Brown Inc. "The plants are right in the middle of the Midwestern hub."
The plants sold for almost three times their book value because they are in the Midwest, where power prices jumped during a heat wave last June to $3,200 a megawatt hour, more than 125 times the previous year's average.
Unicom, which serves 3.4 million customers through its Commonwealth Edison unit, expects a gain of $1.7 billion from the sale, while Edison said the plants would begin to raise earnings in 2002.
Shares of Edison rose 12.5 cents yesterday, to $24.75. Unicom rose 6.25 cents, to $38.25.
The purchase, expected to be completed this year, includes a large plant that can be fueled by natural gas or oil and nine smaller plants used when electricity demand is high.
Though coal-fired power plants are cheaper to operate than gas or nuclear ones, they also pollute more. Edison's generating unit, Edison Mission Energy, said it was confident that it could operate the plants profitably even while investing $200 million to cut their emissions.
"There is a bit of a trade-off here," said Edward Muller, the chief executive of Edison Mission. "We will have to spend some money to improve the environmental performance of the plants, but we can make the economics work."
Edison Mission has stakes in 11 California plants, which it can maintain because it is legally separate from Southern California Edison. Edison Mission also owns plants in eight other states, including Nevada, Florida, West Virginia, New Jersey, Washington and New York, and has promised to build an additional 500 megawatts of gas-fired generation in Chicago.
This month, Edison, based in Rosemead, Calif., completed a $1.8 billion acquisition of a coal-fired power plant in Pennsylvania. The company plans to spend $200 million on pollution-reducing equipment for that plant.
Edison, which is second in California behind the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, a unit of the PG&E Corporation, is expanding outside the country as well. It said on Monday that it would pay $640 million to buy a stake in Contact Energy Ltd. from the Government of New Zealand.
Unicom, based in Chicago, plans to spend proceeds from the Edison sale on reducing operating costs at its nuclear plants as it prepares for competition in Illinois. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EIX (NYSE) (93%); PCG (SWX) (84%); PCG (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (93%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: EDISON INTERNATIONAL; UNICOM CORP EDISON INTERNATIONAL (93%); UNICOM CORP (91%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (91%); PG&E CORP (84%); ALEX BROWN INC (69%); EDISON MISSION ENERGY LTD (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDISON INTERNATIONAL; UNICOM CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD R MULLER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



492 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Managed Care Squeezes Research Funds and Charity Health Aid, Studies Find

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
In the wake of the managed care revolution, health policy analysts have long suspected that financial pressures would threaten care for the poor and prevent academic health centers from financing their own biomedical research. Now, two new studies provide the first evidence that those suspicions are correct.
The studies, paid for by nonprofit health care research organizations, found that in regions of the country where managed care competition is most intense, doctors are less likely to provide free care to the indigent, and academic institutions are significantly less likely to use their own money for scientific research. 
 The findings, which appear in the current issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association, are based on surveys of more than 10,000 physicians and more than 2,000 faculty members of medical schools. Taken together, the studies suggest that as managed care takes hold, doctors and academic researchers are losing their ability to provide for "the common good," said Dr. David Blumenthal, director of the Institute for Health Policy at Massachusetts General Hospital, who is an author of the medical school study.
Health care economists, however, said society, not managed care, was to blame. Now that "cross-subsidies" -- the practice of shifting profits from patient care to pay for unreimbursed work -- have been squeezed out of the system, they said, Americans must confront the questions of how to finance research and how to care for the growing number of uninsured, now estimated at 43 million.
"Any economist would have predicted this," said Uwe Reinhardt, professor of economics at Princeton University. "I see in the medical establishment all this hand-wringing of saying the managed care industry is destroying all the good things in American health care. That's bull shine. Do we want this research? Yes? Then let's pay for it. Do we want to provide the uninsured care? Yes? Then let's pay for it."
In their analysis of charity care, researchers at the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonprofit organization in Washington, surveyed 10,881 physicians in 60 randomly selected communities in 1996 and 1997, asking them about the amount of free care they provided in the month prior to being interviewed.
The study, paid for by the nonprofit Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, found that doctors who depend on managed care plans for 85 percent or more of their income spent, on average, 5.2 hours a month caring for indigent patients, while doctors who derived no income from managed care spent nearly twice that amount of time, 10 hours a month. Even so, more than three-fourths of the doctors provided some charity care.
The study also found that a climate of intense managed care competition had an effect on the behavior of doctors, even when they did not accept managed care plans themselves. In communities with the most competition, the researchers found, doctors on the whole provided about 25 percent less charity care than their counterparts elsewhere. In addition, doctors who did not own their own practices were also less likely to provide charity care.
The study did not compare the amount of indigent care today to what has been provided in the past. Nonetheless, Peter J. Cunningham, the lead author of the research, said: "The evidence suggests that the holes in the safety net are getting bigger. In areas where managed care is more highly developed, it is more difficult for uninsured persons to get care."
The analysis of academic research spending was paid for by the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit organization in New York that in 1995 created a panel to examine how the marketplace affects academic health centers. In surveying 2,336 faculty members at 117 of the nation's medical schools, Dr. Blumenthal and his colleagues tried to assess the amount of "unsponsored research" -- studies financed by faculty members themselves or by their institutions, as opposed to the pharmaceutical industry or the Federal Government.
The study found that nearly three-fourths of those surveyed conducted some unsponsored research, and about 4.4 percent of the total cost of research was paid for by institutions.
But the amount of institutional financing declined, the authors found, in communities where managed care competition was most pronounced. In the least competitive markets, including Chicago and Atlanta, financing for unsponsored research was more than twice as high -- 6.1 percent of the total -- as it was in more competitive markets like San Diego or Minneapolis-St. Paul.
Although the budget for the National Institutes of Health is scheduled to increase by 15 percent this year, Dr. Blumenthal said that would not solve the problem. To make use of additional grant money, many academic health centers would have to build more laboratory space. But in an era when revenue from patient care is declining, Dr. Blumenthal said, the centers might not want to invest money in building new labs.
If money for unsponsored research shrinks, Dr. Blumenthal warned, the training of young scientists will be compromised and creative work that is too nascent to warrant industry or Federal support will be lost. Indeed, the study found that unsponsored research was generally productive; almost four-fifths of it led to publications in peer-reviewed journals, and about 12 percent resulted in patent applications.
"It's a very uncertain time," Dr. Blumenthal said. "You won't see holes in the ground where academic medical centers used to be. You will see a great erosion of a capability which has been built up over many decades."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Giving Less Time"
The graph shows the estimated time spent providing charity care in one month. (Source: Journal of the American Medical Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: JOURNAL OF AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN; CENTER FOR STUDYING HEALTH SYSTEM CHANGE AMERICAN HEALTH CARE CENTERS (53%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOURNAL OF AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN; CENTER FOR STUDYING HEALTH SYSTEM CHANGE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; RESEARCH; DOCTORS; MEDICAL SCHOOLS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; BLUMENTHAL, DAVID (DR) DAVID BLUMENTHAL (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



493 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: 10 Years After the Big Spill

 BODY:
With the Administration's backing, a bill will be introduced in Congress today to give permanent wilderness protection to one of America's great natural treasures, the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. The timing could not be more apt. Today is also the 10th anniversary of the day the Exxon Valdez ran aground in Alaska's Prince William Sound, spreading 11 million gallons of crude oil over 3,000 square miles and causing horrendous damage to one of the nation's most sensitive ecosystems. Placing 1.6 million acres of Alaskan wilderness permanently beyond the reach of the oil companies would provide a measure of expiation for a major calamity. 
 In a sense, the Exxon Valdez incident has already left an important mark on the long struggle to achieve a better balance between energy and the environment. The spill forced President Bush to abandon his drive to allow drilling in the coastal plain and, in further repudiation of his friends in the oil business, to impose a 10-year moratorium on exploration in much of America's coastal waters, including the California coast and the Florida Keys. The spill also led to the 1990 Oil Pollution Act, which imposed severe penalties on oil companies and shippers for negligence and required safer double-hulled tankers by 2015.
More broadly, the sheer scope of the disaster did much to raise the country's environmental consciousness and taught it that a single accident could effectively cripple an entire ecosystem. In 1981, only 25 percent of Americans believed that the risks of offshore drilling outweighed the benefits. A year after the spill, that figure had risen to 55 percent.
There are still deep wounds, some of which only time and nature can heal. Of 20 animal and bird species affected by the spill, only 2 -- the bald eagle and the river otter -- have fully recovered. Eight others, including the economically vital herring and pink salmon, are slowly coming back, and 10 have shown no significant recovery. Exxon has shelled out more than $3 billion in cleanup costs and civil and criminal fines. But it has yet to pay $5 billion in punitive damages to thousands of Indians and commercial fishermen whose culture and livelihoods suffered severe damage. Nor has the Federal Government cracked down as hard as it could on the oil industry to upgrade its aging tankers.
Meanwhile, the companies and their Congressional allies are again hatching an assault on the coastal plain, which was left unprotected when Congress gave the rest of the refuge wilderness status in 1980. A narrow, breathtakingly beautiful stretch of land flanking the Beaufort Sea, the plain is home to an extraordinary variety of wildlife and, quite possibly, a major undiscovered oilfield. The Contract With America Republicans tried to open it up in the 1995 budget bill, only to be thwarted by President Clinton's veto. This year's vehicle is an innocuous-looking measure authorizing seismic tests that, if they showed oil, would inevitably strengthen the case for drilling.
That is why Representative Bruce Vento of Minnesota has offered his bill to put the coastal plain permanently off limits. As Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt once observed, drilling the refuge would be an ethical calamity, the equivalent of offering Yellowstone National Park for geothermal drilling. Furthermore, as this day reminds us, Alaska's landscape has suffered enough. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: XON (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (97%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE; ALASKA; PRINCE WILLIAM SOUND (ALASKA); UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (93%); ALASKA, USA (97%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WATER POLLUTION; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; EXXON VALDEZ (TANKER); SHIPS AND SHIPPING WILDERNESS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); FISHES (89%); MAMMALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); BIRDS (77%); ANIMALS (77%); BULK SHIPPING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); DAMAGES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (72%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (68%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (57%); CRIMINAL FINES (50%); 

PERSON: VENTO, BRUCE (REPR) BILL CLINTON (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



494 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: High Court Expands Authority Of Judges on Expert Testimony

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
In a substantial victory for defendants in product liability suits, the Supreme Court gave Federal judges new authority today to keep expert testimony of questionable reliability out of the courtroom and away from the jury.
Expanding on a decision of six years ago that established Federal judges as powerful monitors of the quality of scientific evidence presented in their courtrooms, the Court said today that the approach it endorsed then was not limited to testimony about purely scientific principles. 
 Judges were obliged under the Federal rules of evidence to play the same gatekeeping role when it came to testimony based on technical or other specialized knowledge, Justice Stephen G. Breyer wrote for a unanimous Court today.
In fulfilling that obligation, Justice Breyer said, judges should take a flexible, case-by-case approach, tailored to the potential witness's experience and field of expertise, whether it be engineering, economics, handwriting analysis or any of numerous other subjects.
"Life and the legal cases that it generates are too complex" for sharp dividing lines between different kinds of expertise, he said. Further, Justice Breyer said, "it would prove difficult, if not impossible, for judges to administer evidentiary rules under which a gatekeeping obligation depended upon a distinction between 'scientific' knowledge and 'technical' or 'other specialized' knowledge."
The lower court in this case, reflecting generalized confusion among the lower Federal courts over the scope of the Supreme Court's 1993 decision in Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, had ruled that the judge's gatekeeping role was limited to testimony based on "the application of scientific principles."
The jury should be able to appraise the value of expert testimony that relied on "skill- or experience-based observation" instead of scientific principles, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, ruled in a dispute over the reliability of testimony by an expert on tire failure in a lawsuit growing out of an automobile accident.
By overturning the 11th Circuit's limited view of the Daubert precedent and finding the tire expert's testimony inadmissible, the Court today added an important weapon to the arsenal of critics of the civil justice system who have complained that "junk science" has been finding its way into too many courtrooms and distorting the deliberations of unsophisticated jurors.
The case, Kumho Tire Company v. Carmichael, No. 97-1709, attracted briefs from a variety of business groups urging the Court to make it clear that the judge's role was an expansive one. Groups representing trial lawyers and consumers, on the other hand, urged the Court not to take from juries their historic function of evaluating evidence.
The case today was a lawsuit brought by a family whose Ford minivan was involved in a single-car accident on Interstate 65 in Baldwin County, Ala. Seven people in the minivan were injured and one was killed.
One of the vehicle's tires had blown out, and the plaintiffs, suing the tire manufacturer, wanted to present testimony by an expert in tire failures to prove that the accident was due to a manufacturing defect rather than wear or poor maintenance of the tire, which was bald in spots and had imperfect repairs of two punctures.
The Federal District Court in Mobile, regarding the proposed testimony as technical rather than scientific, nonetheless applied the approach of the Daubert decision. Finding the expert's analytical methods not sufficiently reliable, the court excluded the testimony and granted summary judgment to the tire company.
In reversing that ruling, the 11th Circuit said the trial court should not have applied the Supreme Court's guidelines in the Daubert decision for evaluating scientific testimony. These factors were: whether the expert's theory or technique had been tested; whether it had been subjected to peer review and publication; whether there was a high "known or potential rate of error" in the method, and whether the theory or technique enjoyed "general acceptance" within a "relevant scientific community."
In his decision today, Justice Breyer said a trial judge could pose any or all of those questions, as circumstances warranted. The Court then went on to apply the analysis to the tire expert's proposed testimony, concluding that the district judge had properly exercised his discretion in excluding it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KHTC (LSE) (62%); 073240 (KSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (62%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) KUMHO TIRE CO INC (62%); MERRELL DOW PHARMACEUTICALS LTD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA; UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; TIRES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY TESTIMONY (93%); JUDGES (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); EXPERT WITNESSES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TIRES (88%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (87%); VERDICTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); LAWYERS (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN BREYER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



495 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Social Security: Divergent Paths

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
When the Clinton Administration put shoring up Social Security at the top of the national agenda early last year, White House officials said the first order of business was to make it politically safe to have a frank debate about the options.
Fourteen months later, the two parties have an array of choices before them, and from the White House to the Capitol to the scores of research and lobbying groups with an interest in the issue, the pros and cons of all of them are being examined in detail. 
 But while it has proved safe to talk about Social Security, the chances of talk turning to action remain questionable. Moreover, the positions staked out by the most influential forces in the debate reflect fundamentally differing visions of the role of Government.
The extreme difficulty of reconciling the faith among Democrats in the Government and the push by Republicans for a more market-based solution to social welfare problems was on full display this month when a bipartisan commission on Medicare collapsed in bitter disagreement.
Most Democrats, especially those liberals who view Social Security as Exhibit A in their argument that Government has a crucial role to play in insuring the well-being of citizens, are determined to maintain the system as much as possible in its current form.
They have rallied around the outline of a plan offered by President Clinton in his State of the Union address, when he called for keeping the current system intact, with its guaranteed retirement benefit. He proposed using a big chunk of expected Federal budget surpluses, in a somewhat circuitous way, to extend Social Security's solvency to 2049.
The President also proposed allowing the Federal Government for the first time to invest some Social Security reserves in stocks and bonds, a step he said would extend the system's solvency to 2055. To meet the system's longtime goal of 75 years of solvency, Mr. Clinton said, the two parties would have to agree on other unspecified steps, like cutting benefits or raising taxes.
Mr. Clinton also proposed an important change outside of the Social Security system. To promote retirement savings, he wants to establish a new form of private investment account, mainly for low- to middle-income workers.
Most Republicans are coming at the problem from a completely different perspective. They say the system needs a total overhaul, both to bring its finances into line with pressures it will face and to give individuals additional flexibility to amass wealth.
Republicans are considering a number of variants and are working on legislation they hope to introduce in coming months. But their basic approach is to establish personal investment accounts within Social Security through which individuals could invest in stocks and bonds.
Although such individual accounts would carry with them the risk of loss should Wall Street suffer a sharp or protracted downturn, most of the Republican plans contemplate some kind of guarantee that no retiree would be worse off than under the current system.
The details of both the Democratic and Republican approaches are complicated and confusing, even to economists and policy analysts. The arguments surrounding them touch on finance, demographics and human behavior.
But the battle is ultimately being fought over ideology, not mathematical computer models.
"There is a very deep ideological divide, and it's going to be very difficult to bridge," said Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Brooklyn Democrat who wants to retain the current system. "Republicans by and large want to privatize Social Security and believe in a system of personal accounts. The Democrats by and large believe that would destroy Social Security."
The optimistic view, which tends to be held more among Republicans than Democrats, starts with a belief that there is considerable common ground between the two sides.
The optimists say that both Mr. Clinton and the Republicans endorse raising Social Security returns in the stock market and that they differ only over whether individuals or the Government should do the investing.
They say Mr. Clinton and Republicans agree on the desirability of private investment accounts, and disagree only over whether the accounts should be established within Social Security or outside of it.
And they say both parties have an interest in dealing with the problem now, since every passing year will make the proposed fixes more painful for recipients and taxpayers.
But there are fewer and fewer optimists on either side these days.
"The different approaches really are irreconcilable," said Mark Weisbrot, research director of the Preamble Center, a liberal research group.
Even those who say a deal can be struck assume that it will be the other side that moves.
"There is the prospect of a deal once everybody understands the situation facing the system," said Representative Nick Smith, a Michigan Republican who favors private accounts.
Once both sides agree to put aside the demagoguery that has long inflamed the debates and study the facts, Mr. Smith said, there will be no choice but to quit having payroll taxes levied on today's workers pay today's retirees and begin having each generation save and invest for its own Social Security benefits. In other words, private investment accounts.
Forget it, say most Democrats, who argue that Republicans have exaggerated the crisis facing Social Security and the steps needed to insure the system's health.
Mr. Weisbrot said the country did not really need to be having this debate at all.
"What keeps it on the table is that you have Republicans who want to privatize or otherwise go after the system," he said. "You have Democrats who know it's a great way to win elections. You have a President who used the issue to beat back Republican tax cuts and is looking for a legacy other than impeachment." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); MEDICARE (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



496 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Sir Michael Caine, 71, Muse Behind Britain's Booker Prize

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 23

 BODY:
Sir Michael Caine, a corporate chief with a love of books who was the driving force behind the Booker Prize for Fiction, Britain's most prestigious literary award, died of cancer on Saturday in London. He was 71.
Modeled on France's Prix Goncourt, the prize was founded in 1968 when Sir Michael was an executive and board member of Booker P.L.C., an international group of companies involved in food distribution and specialized agribusiness. He served as chief executive of the company from 1975 to 1979 and then as chairman until his retirement in 1993. 
 For 23 years he was chairman of the Booker Prize Management Committee and host of the annual award dinner that is now televised live and ranks as London's greatest and most glamorous literary event. He drew admiration for his command of the evening because he had to overcome both a persistent stutter in his speech and a tendency of honorees to behave badly.
Beryl Bainbridge once spent the entire ceremony lying on the floor because she said she was most comfortable there. Philip Larkin, a judge in 1977, threatened to throw himself out of a window if a particular book he favored was not short-listed, and a presenter once stilled the proceedings with anti-Semitic jokes.
John Berger, the 1972 winner, used his acceptance speech at the Cafe Royal to denounce Booker's colonial past as an owner of West Indian sugar plantations and to threaten to give his prize money to the Black Panthers. The next year, J. G. Farrell used the occasion to denounce "fat cat" corporate officers and attack the royal family.
A voracious reader himself, Sir Michael was not interested in creating best sellers and was oblivious to criticism that the Booker sometimes went to writers who were obscure. "If that were all we wanted, there would be no need for judges, and the Jeffrey Archers would win," he remarked. His view of British literature before the creation of the prize was that it was "a bit peaky and down."
"The Booker," he said, "has cheered it up, made it more vibrant."
Michael Harris Caine was born in Hong Kong on June 17, 1927, the son of Sir Sydney Caine, a high-ranking civil servant who was to become the head of the London School of Economics. He received his bachelor's degree from Oxford where his thesis was on slavery and secession in the United States, and he went on to obtain a master's degree at George Washington University in Washington.
His early work for Booker in places like Guyana, Trinidad and southern Africa in the 1950's kindled a lifelong interest in activities intended to encourage education in developing societies and foster greater understanding in Europe of third-world problems. The $35,000 Booker prize was founded to encourage writing throughout the Commonwealth as well as in Britain.
He was knighted in 1988, and among the organizations he served as chairman were the Royal African Society, the Africa Center in London, the African Emerging Markets Fund and the United Kingdom Council for Overseas Students. Five years ago he organized Africa '95, a Britain-wide celebration of African music, art, dance and poetry.
He divorced Janice Mercer, his first wife and mother of his son and daughter, in 1987 and the same year married Emma Nicholson, a high-profile Conservative Member of Parliament who crossed the Commons floor in 1996 to join the Liberal Democratic Party. A year later she became a member of the House of Lords.
Asked in a telephone interview today if there were moments when people confused Sir Michael with the more famous Michael Caine, Baroness Nicholson said: "An enormous number of times. The phone would ring in the middle of the night, and there would be these inebriated women calling from Los Angeles saying, 'I'm coming over, I'm on the next plane, get my room ready.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir Michael Caine. (Colman Getty) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (78%); HONG KONG (71%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: BOOKER PLC (91%); LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (80%); ROYAL AFRICAN SOCIETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (80%); ROYAL AFRICAN SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (78%); HONG KONG (71%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (94%); DEATHS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); SLAVERY (78%); WRITERS (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); ARCHERY (69%); JUDGES (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

PERSON: CAINE, MICHAEL (SIR); HOGE, WARREN MICHAEL CAINE (71%); SIR MICHAEL (67%); BOOKER PRIZE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



497 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: A Divisive Steel-Quota Debate Moves To the Senate

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
Facing a wave of protectionist sentiment, two top trade officials argued today that a House measure to impose quotas on steel imports would hurt the American economy, lead to raw material shortages and rising prices and could set off a trade war.
Despite the warnings, steelmakers and some Senators vowed to push for quotas that they argue are needed to save a basic American industry. 
 Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, speaking before the Senate Finance Committee, said the quota bill, while "well intentioned," would be "neither in the national interest nor in the interest of the steel industry." She was joined in testimony by Commerce Secretary William Daley.
The measure, which swept through the House this month by a vote of 289 to 141, would roll back amounts of imported steel to levels from the mid-1990's. That vote came in response to a surge of low-cost imports from Asia and Russia late last year that brought down steel prices, which have just begun to recover.
"As our economy continues to grow, demand for steel products remains strong," said Ms. Barshefsky, who repeated the Clinton Administration's intention to veto any quota measure. "Imposing quotes at this stage, when it looks like the market is beginning to stabilize, could have the unintended effort of disrupting the market, with effects that could reverberate throughout the U.S."
Democrats and the Administration are wary of alienating organized labor, which is lobbying hard for the measure. Though it would violate World Trade Organization rules and faces a tough reception in the Senate, Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat and its sponsor, said: "Over the next two weeks, the United Steelworkers Union will unleash a terrific lobbying campaign in every member's district."
Under the measure the House passed, steel imports would be limited to volumes based on monthly averages gleaned from the three-year period before July 1997. The economic crises in Asia, Brazil and Russia hurt demand in the home countries; moreover, severe devaluations of their currencies made the steel inexpensive for markets here.
American steelmakers have brought anti-dumping suits against many countries, which have since cut steel exports to the United States. Russia, for example, has voluntarily agreed to reduce its exports.
Still, in testimony pitting protectionists against free-traders and the steel industry against the Administration, the bill's supporters said quotas were needed.
Critics of quotas, including Ms. Barshefsky and Mr. Daley, said they supported an alternative proposed in the House that would make it easier for the industry to seek remedies under existing trade law when faced with sudden surges in imports. This measure, sponsored by Representatives Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and Amo Houghton, a New York Republican, would lower the standards for bringing such cases to the International Trade Commission.
Steel industry leaders, however, insist quotas are necessary. "The real question is, do we want a steel industry in the United States?" George Becker, the United Steelworkers Union president, said. "We know there's an overcapacity of steel in the world. If we do not act decisively in the present crisis, there will be no American steel industry in the 21st century."
His views were echoed by Curtis H. Barnette, chief executive of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, who said: "We are in a period of record demand, and we are experiencing widespread losses in our industry. There is only one cause: imports."
But several users of raw steel criticized quotas, saying they would cut off the supply of specialty products that American steelmakers do not produce and could lead to retaliation against their own products.
Jack Porter, chief procurement officer for Caterpillar Inc., a maker of heavy equipment, said his company "strongly opposes the steel quota legislation." He added that it "could lead to direct retaliation against our exports and undermine the international trading system."
Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican, sharply criticized the bill, calling it "a prosperity killer that would send the Dow down 2,500 points."
"It would be a move to protectionism," he said. "We're a prosperous country right now, and if we start a trade war, we will be the great loser."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Executives testifying before the Senate Finance Committee yesterday in opposition to steel import quotas included, from left, David Daniel of Quality Tubing Inc. and Jack Porter of Caterpillar Inc. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (73%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); UNITED STEELWORKERS UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (73%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); UNITED STEELWORKERS UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; LAW AND LEGISLATION; QUOTAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEVALUATION (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; BARSHEFSKY, CHARLENE (US TRADE REPR); DALEY, WILLIAM (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JAY ROCKEFELLER (56%); SANDER M LEVIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



498 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Jesse Jackson Will Skip 2000 Race, Advisers Say

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson will announce on Wednesday that he does not intend to run a third time for the Democratic Presidential nomination, advisers close to him said today.
Mr. Jackson commands a loyal following among liberal Democrats and would have complicated the campaign of Vice President Al Gore. Mr. Gore has long cultivated a friendship with Mr. Jackson and hoped he would sit out the race. 
 In an interview broadcast over the weekend on Black Entertainment Television, Mr. Jackson was asked whether he would run, and he said: "I'm inclined not to. I'm not very motivated to at this point."
Explaining that he wanted to concentrate on efforts outside Government, like pressing Wall Street to offer more start-up capital to minorities, Mr. Jackson said, "Beyond politics is a private sector challenge."
Today, speaking to reporters in Chicago, where he is to make his announcement, Mr. Jackson, ever mindful of the suspense factor, said: "You can rest assured that tomorrow we will share with you what we intend to do and how. We intend to impact public policy in a major way in 1999 and 2000."
But an aide said Mr. Jackson had decided not to run because he "simply believed that he can most effectively advance his work outside the context of a Presidential campaign."
Mr. Jackson also plans to announce his decision on Wednesday on the Web page of his son, Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. of Illinois. The Congressman has publicly urged his father to run.
The elder Mr. Jackson's decision leaves former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey as Mr. Gore's only rival so far. Other Democrats who seriously considered with running but bowed out are Senators Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, John Kerry of Massachusetts, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader.
Mr. Jackson, 57, is one of the most prominent black political leaders in the nation. He ran for the Democratic nomination in 1984 and again in 1988 and has weighed seeking the nomination in subsequent elections.
"He leaves a big gaping hole -- and the other candidates are going to scurry to fill it in," said David Axelrod, a Democratic strategist in Chicago who is not affiliated with any candidate. "He is a natural spokesperson for a large number of Democrats -- not just minority Democrats but poor, white working-class voters -- who feel disenfranchised. And it's a base that would be there for him any time he stepped into the race. Now those voters are up for grabs."
Although Mr. Jackson had insisted for months that he was still contemplating entering the race, many leading Democrats had not expected him to run. He had not established even a bare-bones campaign structure and had not begun soliciting donations, which is particularly crucial this year because the condensed schedule of primaries and caucuses puts a premium on early fund-raising.
Most recently, Mr. Jackson drew attention for his role as a spiritual adviser to the Clinton family during the impeachment and Senate trial.
Mr. Jackson founded Operation PUSH more than 25 years ago and is president of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, a merged nonprofit organization that seeks economic and political power for minorities.
Mr. Jackson is also Mr. Clinton's special envoy to Africa and host of the CNN program "Both Sides With Jesse Jackson."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (57%); RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); STARTUPS (69%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) JESSE JACKSON (94%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (78%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



499 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Trade Officials Warn Of Danger of Steel Quotas
Facing a wave of protectionist sentiment, two top trade officials contended that a House-passed measure to impose quotas on steel imports would hurt the American economy, lead to raw material shortages and rising prices and could set off a trade war.
Speaking before the Senate Finance Committee, United States Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky and Commerce Secretary William Daley said the quotas could disrupt the steel market. In spite of these warnings, the steel industry and some Senators vowed to push for quotas. Page C6. 

Signs of Strain at DaimlerChrysler
The merger in November of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler, presented as a merger of equals, is producing considerable unhappiness among some American managers who contend privately that DaimlerChrysler has come to be dominated by Germans. C2.
 
Bank of New York to Buy Trust Unit
The Bank of New York agreed to buy the trust bank of the Royal Bank of Scotland for an undisclosed sum, making the Bank of New York the world's largest custodian of investor assets. The Bank of New York said the purchase would raise its total of assets under custody to $5.9 trillion worldwide, moving it ahead of Chase Manhattan. Shares of Bank of New York fell $1.25, to $36.9375. C6.
 
AT&T Sells $8 Billion in Bonds
Prices of Government securities rose modestly as investors focused primarily on AT&T's record $8 billion global bond offering. The yield of the benchmark 30-year Treasury fell to 5.54 percent from 5.57 percent on Monday. C10.
 
ARCO to Test Cleaner Diesel Fuel
Atlantic Richfield says it has developed a cleaner diesel fuel for trucks and other large vehicles that will soon be tested on the road in California, a national leader in pushing for the development of cleaner-burning fuels. C21.
 
SBC-Ameritech Deal Clears Hurdle
The Justice Department gave conditional approval to the planned takeover of Ameritech by SBC Communications, a deal that would create the nation's largest local telephone company. The deal, valued at $60 billion when it was announced last May, still requires the approval of the Federal Communications Commission, which is reviewing it. C6.
 
Power Plant Units to Combine
ABB Asea Brown Boveri, the world's leading electrical-engineering company, and Alstom of France have agreed to combine their power plant manufacturing units as recessions in Asia reduce profits. The joint venture, with $11 billion in annual sales, will leapfrog General Electric to become the world's biggest maker of generating equipment. Goeran Lindahl, the chief executive of ABB, said the company planned to use a $1.5 billion payment from Alstom to make acquisitions. C4.
 
Edison International, California's second-biggest utility, agreed to buy 16 power plants in Illinois from Unicom for $4.8 billion in cash as it expands into the Midwest. C6.
 
British Truckers Moving Abroad
Faced with far higher license fees and diesel fuel costs than their Continental rivals, British truck drivers are losing business, even within Britain. So some are "flagging out" -- incorporating elsewhere in Europe, but they will continue to pay lower British wages. C4.
 
Two Nissan Parts Units to Merge
Nissan Motor said two parts supplier subsidiaries, Calsonic and Kansei, would merge, furthering the troubled auto maker's efforts to simplify its sprawling operations, as it considers Renault's bid for a 35 percent stake. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,671.83, down 218.68
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.54%, down 0.03
The Dollar -- 118.00 yen, down 0.11
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Durable Goods Orders
 February figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -2.4%
 
Another graph tracks the Bank of New York share price, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); T (NYSE) (85%); ALO (PAR) (80%); ABJA (FRA) (80%); ABJ (FRA) (80%); ABBN (SWX) (80%); ABB (STO) (80%); ABB (NYSE) (80%); ABB (NSE) (80%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); EIX (NYSE) (60%); BP (NYSE) (54%); BP (LSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (80%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (80%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (80%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (80%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (80%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (80%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (80%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (80%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (80%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (60%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); AT&T INC (85%); ALSTOM SA (80%); ABB LTD (80%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); EDISON INTERNATIONAL (60%); BP PLC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MERGERS (89%); BONDS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); POWER PLANTS (87%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (85%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (84%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAKEOVERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BOND ISSUES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); DIESEL FUEL (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (61%); ENGINEERING (60%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



500 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks Plunge Over Concern On Earnings

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
A broad selloff sent stock prices sharply lower yesterday as worries about high valuations and anxiety about corporate profits led investors to pare their holdings. Chances that the United States might soon be involved in air strikes over Kosovo only added to the anxiety.
The decline was worst among technology stocks, the group that has led the market's rise in recent months. But few areas were immune: nearly seven stocks fell for every two that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, the broadest drop since Oct. 8. Of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average, only AT&T rose in price. Eighty-seven of the 89 industry groups that constitute the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell. 
 "Things look pretty ugly to me," said William Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "It has been a long time since we have seen breadth this negative. A lot of people are saying it doesn't matter, but I think it does."
By the close of trading, the Dow had fallen 218.68 points, or 2.2 percent, to 9,671.83, its biggest decline since Jan. 14. The S.& P. 500 had its worst day since Oct. 1, losing 34.87 points, or 2.7 percent, to 1,262.14. The Nasdaq composite index shed 73.10 points, or 3 percent, to 2,322.84, the worst drop since Feb. 12. And Thestreet.com's index of Internet companies fell 36.82 points, or 5.8 percent, to 596.69.
"It was tech wreck," said one trader, who insisted on anonymity. "The next rally has to be driven by corporate earnings, not interest rates. And if we get good earnings, a lot of money will come into the market."
For some time, investors have been concerned that prices could undergo a fairly significant correction, if only because stocks have risen so far, so fast.
Between the end of August and last Thursday, when it peaked at 9,997.62, the Dow rallied 33 percent. According to the ISI Group, a New York consulting firm, there have been only four other times in the last 30 years when the Dow rose as much during a similar 143-day period.
Gains in broader indexes have been even more impressive.
Between Aug. 31 and last Thursday, when it hit a record of 1,316.55, the S.& P. 500 shot up 37.5 percent. And from Oct. 1 until Feb. 1, when it peaked at 2,510.09, the Nasdaq advanced 77 percent.
"A 10 percent correction would not be unreasonable on the Dow," said Louise Yamada, a managing director in technical research at Salomon Smith Barney. "Nor would a 15 percent to 20 percent correction on the Nasdaq."
Concern about earnings, particularly among personal computer makers, continues to hound technology stocks.
Dell Computer was the most active Nasdaq issue yesterday, losing 2 3/16, to 35 11/16, on concerns it faces another quarter of slowing sales growth. On Monday, Kevin McCarthy, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, lowered his earnings estimate on Dell and said he expected the PC industry to grow only 8 percent in 1999.
Microsoft, the dominant software provider, fell 6 1/4, to 166 9/16. And I.B.M., which sank last week after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter voiced concerns about revenue growth, dropped 1 5/8, to 165 3/8.
"Earnings will probably be good this year for most of these technology companies," said Ned Riley Jr., chief investment officer at BankBoston. "But expectations were unrealistic."
BellSouth joined the list of earnings trouble stories. The telecommunications company said that additional spending to build its data and wireless businesses would reduce profit growth in the first half of the year to the low end of the current range of Wall Street expectations. Richard Klugman, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs, lowered his earnings estimate for the first quarter. The company's shares fell 2 13/16, to 42 3/4.
The price drop was not confined to technology shares.
Industrial giants like General Motors and General Electric were battered. So too were financial service companies and banks, including J. P. Morgan, the American Insurance Group and BankAmerica.
Shares of General Motors fell 4 11/16, to 85 9/16. General Electric lost 3 13/16, to 106 9/16. J. P. Morgan shed 3 11/16, to 122 3/4, while AIG slumped 5, to 117. And BankAmerica was down 3 1/2, to 69.
Elsewhere, Coca-Cola fell 1 13/16, to 65 7/8, after analysts at Merrill Lynch cut their earnings forecasts for the first quarter and the entire year, citing what appear to be deteriorating conditions in Latin America and Japan.
But the session's biggest loser was Pathogenesis, the pharmaceutical company. Its shares tumbled 22 3/16, or 65 percent, to 12 3/16 after it said it expected to post a loss this year on weaker-than-expected sales of its sole drug product, an inhaled antibiotic.
But shares of Autoweb.com, an on-line car retailer, soared 26, to 40, on their first day of trading.
Other Internet stocks did not fare nearly as well.
America Online, the most active issue on the Big Board, fell 9, to 121. Amazon.com lost 12 5/8, to 119 3/8. And Yahoo dropped 9 1/2, to 155 1/2.
Despite the sharp pullback, analysts at ISI provided a glimmer of hope: After each of the last 33 percent rallies in the Dow -- in 1975, 1982, 1986 and 1987 -- the analysts noted the index gained an average of 5 percent over the next three months.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TST (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (56%); THESTREET INC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (60%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



501 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Milton S. Gould, 89, Legal Giant in a City of Lawyers, Dies

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Milton S. Gould, a classicist turned storied courtroom litigator who for years played the scholarly Mr. Inside to William A. Shea's gregarious Mr. Outside as a managing partner of one of New York City's most politically connected and ethnically balanced law firms, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 and since the disbanding of Shea & Gould in 1994 had continued his 65-year legal career with the firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae.
By the time he and Mr. Shea engineered the 1964 law firm merger that created what became Shea & Gould, Mr. Gould was already a prominent litigator and Mr. Shea had already developed his reputation as a master of the back-room deal. 
 Over the next two decades as the firm became closely associated with the local Democratic Party and a succession of mayors, it was the backslapping Mr. Shea who emerged as its media star, especially after his successful efforts to obtain a replacement team for the defecting Brooklyn Dodgers led the city to name the Mets' stadium after him.
But while Mr. Shea, who died in 1991, is recalled by former colleagues as having had a much sharper legal mind than he was generally given credit for, it was the largely apolitical Mr. Gould who built the firm's reputation as an effective courtroom advocate in corporate and other litigation.
In a career in which he represented clients in major business upheavals -- involving the likes of Twentieth Century Fox, Columbia Pictures and Curtis Publishing -- Mr. Gould became famous for winning millions for the stockholders of the old Fifth Avenue Coach lines after it was taken over by the city and for restoring the reputation of Ariel Sharon, the former Israeli Defense Minister, in a libel action against Time magazine, which had written that he had encouraged a murderous Christian attack on Palestinian camps in Lebanon.
A tall, informal man whose wardrobe tended to be more off-the-rack rumpled than courtroom chic, Mr. Gould had such a deceptively low-key manner during cross-examinations that rivals were sometimes lulled into complacency.
There was the time, for example, when Mr. Gould, defending a client in an apparently open-and-shut municipal corruption case, asked the key witness, an informant who had spent 10 months in the Federal witness protection program, how he had been spending his time, and the man replied that he had been reviewing, embellishing and clarifying his testimony.
The prosecutor, no doubt grateful that Mr. Gould had quickly gone on to other matters and had not underscored the implications of the statement with follow-up questions, obligingly passed up an opportunity to ask the witness to clarify what he had meant by "embellishing" and "clarifying," questions that would no doubt have elicited an explanation that the man had certainly not meant that he had altered his testimony or deviated from the truth.
Indeed, nothing more was heard about the statement until Mr. Gould got up to deliver his summation, one in which the word "embellishing" was used so often and with such effect the jury disregarded the informant's damaging testimony and found Mr. Gould's client not guilty.
A native of Manhattan who grew up reading Latin and Greek, Mr. Gould never abandoned his love of classics, but at Cornell, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1930, he gave up his plans to become a college professor and switched his allegiance to the law, graduating from the law school there in 1933.
At a time when the city's white-shoe law firms were notorious for shunning Jewish lawyers, Mr. Gould was surprised to receive an offer from the old-line firm of White & Case, but when he learned he was to be assigned to strictly research duties and forbidden contact with clients, he quit and joined a new and energetic Jewish firm, Kaufman, Weiztner & Celler, whose partners included a future Federal judge, Samuel H. Kaufman, and a powerful Brooklyn Congressman, Emmanuel Celler.
As a Catholic lawyer, Mr. Shea had similarly been stung by the city's Protestant legal establishment, and when Mr. Gould's firm, by then known as Gallop, Climenko & Gould, merged with Mr. Shea's firm, Manning, Hollinger & Shea, to create what was initially known as Shea, Gallop, Climenko & Gould, it was no accident that one firm was Jewish and the other Catholic.
Indeed, with their new firm instantly nicknamed Blarney & Chutzpah, the partners took pains to make sure the percentages of Christian and Jewish lawyers remained in the 40-60 range.
From the beginning, Mr. Gould and Mr. Shea, who rode to and fro work together, ran the firm. As Mr. Gould once put it, "There was only one boss, Shea and I."
As the firm grew, some of the younger lawyer's chafed at the managing partners' high-handed ways, and after Mr. Gould, then 74, had heart bypass surgery in 1984, the two men ceded power to a five-member executive committee. It proceeded to expand the firm so rapidly that it never recovered after a downturn in the economy and was dissolved in 1994.
Mr. Gould, whose wife, Eleanor Greenburg Gould, died last year after 61 years of marriage, is survived by three children, Jonathan of Woodstock, N.Y., Judson, of Washington, and Patricia Booth of New York; a sister, Hinda Rosenthal, and five grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Milton S. Gould was one of the managing partners of Shea & Gould. (Penelope Taylor, 1994) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (91%); NEW YORK METS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LEGAL PROFESSION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBEL & SLANDER (74%); MAYORS (73%); LAW FIRM MERGERS (72%); MERGERS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); CORRUPTION (50%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, MILTON S; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR TZIPORA LIVNI (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



502 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: THE RUSSIANS;
A Phone Call From Gore and a U-Turn to Moscow

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
Just after 1 P.M. today, an angry Russian Prime Minister, en route to Washington for some of the most important talks of his short tenure, ordered his pilot to turn his Ilyushin airliner around and return to Moscow.
Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov was a few hundred miles northeast of Newfoundland when he received a satellite telephone call from Vice President Al Gore. Mr. Gore grimly informed him that a diplomatic effort had failed and that the United States and NATO were preparing to deliver a barrage of air and missile strikes against Serbian targets in Kosovo and Serbia. 
 Mr. Primakov was in an untenable situation, having argued for months against the use of force against Moscow's allies in Serbia. Whatever he might have hoped to gain from three days of meetings -- with Mr. Gore, President Clinton, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and officials of the International Monetary Fund -- was now overshadowed by the likelihood of American-led military action in the Balkans.
"Primakov told the Vice President, 'We categorically oppose this,' " said a senior American official privy to the telephone conversation. "He was so committed to coming here that he took it as far as he possibly could, until he realized he couldn't avoid a situation that he found completely unacceptable. So he turned back."
 And when he returned to Moscow on Wednesday, he told the Itar-Tass news agency that air strikes would be destabilizing, Reuters reported. "I do not think that these strikes can bring stability in Kosovo," he said. "On the contrary, the situation will be destabilized. Oor relations with the United States and stability in Europe will suffer."
The Prime Minister's abrupt decision to cancel his visit to Washington was a mark of the significant souring in the American-Russian relationship. Administration officials said the split over Kosovo, which has been festering for some time, could poison discussions on a variety of matters, particularly Russia's desperate need for cash to cover its foreign debts and keep its economy functioning.
Mr. Primakov, like all Russian prime ministers under the unpredictable President Boris N. Yeltsin, is also in a precarious domestic political position. His mission to Washington was intended in part to bolster his standing at home by presenting him in high-profile meetings with top officials to negotiate for new commitments of Western financial aid.
Administration officials had warned Mr. Primakov for the last several days of the awkward timing of his visit, with the United States and its European allies preparing to carry an ultimatum to President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia. But Mr. Primakov pressed on, even after Mr. Gore told him at 9:30 A.M., when Mr. Primakov was in Shannon, Ireland, for a refueling stop, that there was little hope that Mr. Milosevic would accept allied demands that he withdraw his forces from Kosovo.
At 9:50 A.M., Mr. Primakov left Shannon, intent on coming to Washington -- until 1 P.M., when Mr. Gore reached him on his aircraft with word that air strikes were imminent. Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States troubleshooter for the Balkans, had just left Belgrade, where his efforts to persuade Mr. Milosevic to back down were rejected.
Mr. Primakov was approaching Gander, Newfoundland, not far from American airspace, when Mr. Gore's call was connected. A senior Administration official paraphrased Mr. Gore's side of the conversation this way: "Yevgeny, my friend, this is what happened in Belgrade. We feel we must go to the next stage."
The official added: "In no sense did we uninvite him or make him unwelcome. We just wanted him to know what cards he had in his hand. The Russians had always said that if the bombing began while Primakov was in Washington, he would speak out strongly against it and go home."
Mr. Primakov and Mr. Gore are co-chairmen of the United States-Russia Joint Commission, which meets twice a year to discuss matters of common interest. This session was to have been devoted to Russia's dire economic situation, particularly its inability to make good on $17 billion in interest payments due this year to international lenders.
The agenda also included arms control, the environment, agricultural sales and efforts to halt the spread of nuclear weapons. But all that will have to wait. The two men did not set a new meeting date.
"The Prime Minister and I are both committed to a strong bilateral relationship," Mr. Gore said in a statement issued by the White House today, "and we are both convinced that work of the commission helps strengthen that relationship. We will take up the important work of the commission at a time when both sides can better focus their attention on the issues before us."
The bland words mask a deep division between Washington and Moscow over the Balkans that dates to the collapse of the Soviet Union and the unraveling of the former Yugoslavia. Friction over the expected NATO military action could affect the broader relationship between the two powers, Administration officials acknowledged today.
Mrs. Albright made an effort today to contain the damage with Russia from the dispute over Kosovo, according to aides. She spoke by telephone for more than half an hour with her Russian counterpart, Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov, said James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman.
The United States has expended huge amounts of time and money to bring Russia into the global trading system as well as to keep its 7,000 nuclear weapons under close control. Russia's failing economy has produced a long-running crisis that has caused enormous hardship among the Russian people as well as jitters among Russia's global lenders. Moscow is also irritated at the expansion of NATO to include Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, even without the prospect of the alliance's intervening on the territory of another former Soviet satellite.
"This is putting a lot of strain on our ability to conduct some of these other negotiations," the official said. "Do we recognize that the Kosovo thing hasn't made it any easier? You bet."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Primakov, arriving back in Moscow, said air strikes on Kosovo would be destabilizing. (Associated Press)(pg. A15)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION WESTERN FINANCIAL PRINTING CO (51%); WESTERN FINANCIAL BANK (51%); WESTERN FINANCIAL GROUP INC (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRELAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); AIRLINES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); RELIGION (74%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (91%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



503 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Saving Social Security: Comparing Three Plans

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23

 BODY:
With more than three workers paying taxes today for every retiree, the Social Security system is running a surplus. But by the third decade of the next century, when most baby boomers will have retired, there will be only about two workers for every person drawing benefits. Without some change, Social Security will eventually be unable to pay all promised benefits.
 In his State of the Union Message in January, President Clinton offered a general plan, but the Administration has still not proposed detailed legislation to fill in the gaps. His plan emphasizes maintaining the existing retirement system, with its collective commitment to a guaranteed benefit, and strengthening the economy by using the Federal budget surplus to reduce the national debt. 
 Republicans are taking a different tack. To a greater or lesser extent, they would fundamentally transform Social Security from a Government program into a private system.
 Without having agreed on the specifics, Republicans in the Senate and House are developing plans that would give workers money through tax cuts to invest in the stock market. Each worker would have a private investment account.
 Under one approach, the tax cuts would be financed at first by the surplus and, when the surplus ran out, by money from general revenue. Workers would be promised that their individual retirement benefits would never be lower than under the existing system and might be higher.
 Another approach, which was adopted by a national commission sponsored by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, would finance the private accounts by diverting a portion of the payroll tax paid by workers and their employers into private investment accounts. To guarantee long-term solvency, this plan would require politically painful benefit cuts. DAVID E. ROSENBAUM
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The New York Times/Photographs by Alex Quesada (top) and Todd Buchanan for The New York Times
 
Chart
 
Advocates
 
PRESIDENT'S PLAN
This approach also has the support of most Democrats in Congress, labor unions and liberal policy institutes like the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
 
REPUBLICAN PLAN
Senators Phil Gramm of Texas and Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico and Representatives Bill Archer of Texas and E. Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida, all Republicans, are developing legislation following the principles developed by Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist and former economic adviser to President Ronald Reagan. Most Republicans and conservative policy institutes like the Heritage Foundation advocate this approach.
 
COMMISSION PLAN
An independent commission of politicians and others proposed a plan similar to the Republican approach, also built around private accounts. Commission co-chairmen included Senators John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, and Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, and Representatives Charles W. Stenholm, Democrat of Texas, and Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona. Similar approaches are backed by Democratic Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska.
 
Basic plan
 
PRESIDENT'S PLAN
USING THE Budget surplus
About $2 trillion of the $4.4 trillion Federal surplus projected over the next 15 years would be used to reduce the national debt by half. In addition, $700 billion would be invested by the Government in stocks and bonds. Steps would be taken to insulate the investment from political interference. This $2.7 trillion is about 60 percent of the 15-year surplus, more or less the proportion expected to result from an excess of Social Security taxes over benefits. (Of the rest of the surplus, 15 percent would be set aside for Medicare and the remainder would be spent on the military, education and other programs.)
 
NEW BONDS
The Administration would then credit to Social Security's trust fund a new set of bonds in the exact amount of the public debt it had repurchased. The bonds -- an i.o.u. from the Government to itself -- would obligate the Treasury to pay for Social Security from general revenues starting around 2032.
 
EXTENDING SOLVENCY
The White House plan would extend Social Security's solvency from 2032 to 2055. To meet the test to which the system has historically been subject -- 75 years of solvency -- would require some tax increases or benefit cuts. The White House did not specify any such measures but said it believed they could be negotiated by Congress and the Administration.
 
OPTIONAL PRIVATE INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS
Separately, $500 billion would be set aside from the Federal budget surplus over the next 15 years to create what the President called universal savings accounts. The Government would give low- and middle-income workers money to invest in stocks and bonds. The Government would match a portion of additional contributions individuals make to retirement accounts the way many companies match employees' contributions to 401(k) plans. Such accounts could be passed on to a retiree's heirs.
 
REPUBLICAN PLAN
PRIVATE INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS
This approach would use a portion of future budget surpluses to finance investment accounts that would be owned by individual workers and give them a chance to reap the higher returns available on Wall Street.
Details remain in flux, but the idea is to let each worker place money in an investment account each year, financed directly or indirectly through a tax cut. Workers could invest the money in a range of mutual funds.
At retirement, the worker would have the accumulated investments in a personal account, plus a guaranteed Government benefit. The guaranteed benefit would be reduced somewhat based on the gains accumulated in the private account, but the net result would be to leave most retirees with a bigger total benefit than they would have without the private account. Under nearly all versions of this approach now under consideration, there would be a guarantee that no retirees would receive less than the benefits they would receive under the current system.
 
ANNUITY
When reaching retirement age a worker would be required to use at least some money in his or her personal account to buy an annuity -- a contract that pays a guaranteed sum of money each month for the rest of the recipient's life.
For example, if retirees received a monthly annuity of $800, they would not receive their full Social Security benefit, say $1,300 a month under current law. Mr. Feldstein's plan would reduce the guaranteed benefit by 75 percent of the annuity value, or $600, making it $700 a month. But combined with the $800 a month annuity from the personal account, the retirees would receive a total of $1,500 a month -- $200 more than the current system would provide.
 
COMMISSION PLAN
BENEFIT CUTS
Rather than being built around use of the budget surplus, a substantial reduction in benefits would pay for the shift from the current pay-as-you-go system to one in which workers are diverting a portion of their payroll taxes into individual investment accounts.
The main ways benefits would be reduced:
The age at which retirees are entitled to full benefits, now 65, would gradually be raised to 70 by 2029 and at a slower pace afterward.
Benefits to nonworking spouses and cost-of-living adjustments would be lowered.
The formula for determining benefits would be adjusted so that all but the poorest retirees would receive lower Social Security payments than they would under the existing system.
 
PRIVATE INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS
Workers would be allowed to place 2 percentage points of the 12.4 percent Social Security payroll tax into private accounts. The new system would not apply to anyone 55 or older. As is the case with the Feldstein plan, retiring workers would be required to buy lifetime annuities. And when they died, their heirs would inherit what remained in their accounts.
 
GUARANTEES
This plan differs from the Republican approach in that only the poorest retirees would be guaranteed a specific benefit. For others, the plan would ultimately reduce Social Security benefits by 25 percent or more. The sponsors calculate that the retirement system could be financed without draining resources from other Government programs.
The poorest retirees would be spared most of the cuts and affluent retirees would be most affected by the cuts.
 
Arguments in favor
 
PRESIDENT'S PLAN
KEEPS BENEFITS
Social Security would be maintained as a universal program in which all workers, employers and retirees would have a stake. Less affluent retirees would continue to receive higher benefits relative to their earnings than wealthier retirees.
 
REDUCES NATIONAL DEBT
Reducing the national debt would strengthen the economy by making interest rates lower than they would be otherwise and also by opening the way for more productive private investments. Entering the crunch years for Social Security with less debt, the Government would find it easier to borrow if necessary to pay benefits. Lower debt would free billions of Government dollars every year that would otherwise go to paying interest. And, theoretically, it would create jobs, generating more tax revenue.
 
LIMITS RISK
Because the bonds would be held in Social Security reserves, the retirement program would, as a political obligation, have the first claim on Government spending when funds ran short.
Investing some Social Security money would allow the Government to benefit from the higher rate of returns in the private financial markets. Because the risk would be spread so widely, retirees would not be adversely affected by drops in the markets.
 
REPUBLICAN PLAN
INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY
As a matter of principle, individuals and not the Government should be responsible for their retirement security. The existing Social Security system in which each generation pays for the retirement benefits of the previous generation is essentially a house of cards that is bound to collapse in insolvency.
 
LONG-TERM GROWTH
Private accounts allow retirees to take advantage of compound interest and of the fact that over a very long time the stock market has always increased in value and can be expected to in the future. The budget surplus will be sufficient to cover the transition for years and to pay benefits during downturns in the markets.
To the extent that their private investments are not used to purchase annuities, the plan would allow ordinary workers to build estates that they could pass along to their children.
 
COMMISSION PLAN
INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY LONG-TERM GROWTH
The arguments for private accounts involving individual responsibility and long-term growth are the same as those for the Republican plan.
 
REALISTIC ASSUMPTIONS
Unlike the Clinton and Republican proposals, this plan addresses a problem raised by nearly all impartial analysts: No solution is pain free and taxes will eventually have to be raised or benefits cut to keep Social Security solvent for baby boomers who have been paying taxes into the system for years.
 
Arguments against
 
PRESIDENT'S PLAN
LOW RETURNS
Social Security might remain a good deal for low-income Americans, but over a lifetime, most people would be better off if they invested their retirement savings.
 
LONG-TERM FLAWS
The plan relies on budget surpluses that might never materialize, and ducks a fundamental question of how the retirement system's costs will be reined in as the population ages.
 
SHELL GAME
The plan does nothing more than throw new i.o.u.'s at the problem and avoids the tough choices needed to keep subsequent generations from having to pay the bill for the retirement of the baby boomers.
 
POLITICAL PRESSURE
Investments could not be insulated from politics. Politicians would try to prevent some investments (gun makers, cigarette manufacturers, companies that make birth-control devices) and encourage others (companies that hire union workers, manufacturers that do not buy foreign-made parts).
 
REPUBLICAN PLAN
HELPING THE AFFLUENT
The country is already spending sufficient resources on pensions, so there is no reason, other than political expediency, to promise increased retirement benefits. Affluent retirees would receive proportionately larger increases in benefits than those who are less well off.
 
LONG-TERM FLAWS
Sooner or later, the budget surplus will run out. Under this plan, other Government programs would have to be cut to pay retirement benefits.
rosy assumptions
The benefits of private investment are based on rosy assumptions of stock market performance. There have been decades or more when stock prices have fallen.
Republicans underestimate the cost of transition to a private system and the money lost to the high administrative cost of managing small, individual accounts.
 
COMMISSION PLAN
ROSY ASSUMPTIONS
HIGH FEES
The arguments against private investment accounts involving rosy assumptions and high fees are the same as those made against the Republican plan.
 
RISK
In addition, because most retirees would not receive guaranteed benefits, a poor stock market performance would hurt.
 
SMALLER BENEFITS
Even with the returns from their private accounts, some retirees would doubtless receive smaller pensions than they would if current guaranteed benefits were maintained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (87%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); PHIL GRAMM (56%); JUDD GREGG (56%); PETE DOMENICI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



504 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
PRITCHARD, DR. WILBUR L.

 BODY:
PRITCHARD-Dr. Wilbur L. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Dr. Wilbur L. Pritchard, a distinguished alumnus of the School of Engineering, Class of 1943. Dr. Pritchard, a pioneer in satellite engineering and an early advocate of satellite broadcasting, was the president of W.L. Pritchard & Co., Inc., a consulting engineering firm doing technical and economic studies in telecommunications for private firms and governments. Dr. Pritchard was awarded an honorary Doctor of Science degree from CCNY in 1993. He was a firm friend of his Alma Mater and a strong supporter of public higher education. On behalf of the City College community I wish to extend my deepest sympathy to his family. Yolanda T. Moses, President The City College of New York/ CUNY 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: W L PRITCHARD&CO INC (95%); CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (71%); 

PERSON: PRITCHARD, DR. WILBUR L. WILBUR L PRITCHARD (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



505 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Magic Johnson to Resurrect a Movie Palace

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
Magic Johnson, the former Los Angeles Lakers star whose post-basketball ventures include developing movie theaters, has reached an agreement with New York City to refurbish the historic Loews Kings Theate2 on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn, officials announced yesterday.
The $30 million project will transform the movie house, which closed in 1977, from a dormant relic of the 1920's to a state-of-the-art, 12-screen multiplex. The project was a long-sought triumph for Mr. Johnson, whose company, Magic Johnson Theaters, failed in earlier efforts to build theaters in Jamaica, Queens, and in Harlem. 
 The city has owned the Loews Kings property since it was seized for nonpayment of taxes in 1978. By winning the support of the city and state governments, including tax breaks and low-interest loans, Mr. Johnson's project is almost certain to be successful, with a grand opening expected in 2001.
Mr. Johnson flashed a broad smile as he appeared yesterday afternoon with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani at City Hall to announce the deal in which the city will sign a long-term lease allowing Mr. Johnson and his partners at the Sony Corporation to redevelop the Kings.
"We feel that we are going to have a great success here i. Brooklyn, a theater that everybody will be proud of and everybody will come and support," Mr. Johnson said at the news conference. "We will continue to be a community-based theater, that's what we do different than any other theater chain."
Mr. Johnson's company has built theaters in Los Angeles, Houston and Atlanta. The deal announced yesterday gives it a crucial foothold in New York, the most lucrative movie market in the country, with fewer movie screens per capita than any other large city. In building his theaters, Mr. Johnson has chosen sites in typically underserved, black communities. And all of his theaters offer community services not commonly found in movie houses, including free blood pressure tests and reading programs for children.
Mr. Johnson said he still hoped to build a theater in Harlem, where deals his company struck at two different sites fell through, and in Queens, where 17 months of negotiations ended unsuccessfully in January 1998 and where a competing theater developer then quickly signed an agreement.
In previous years, property owners, local officials and developers might have begged Mr. Johnson to join their projects and build on their sites. But his interest in New York City came at a time of intense competition among theater chains to build new screens to serve the city's millions of movie fans.
"We tried to work on a Jamaica, Queens, deal together and hopefully that will come back," Mr. Johnson said. "Now we have a deal in Brooklyn at the Loews Kings Theater. It is a historical theater and we want to preserve some of that history that it has, but also build a brand-new theater."
The old Loews Kings Theater was a legendary, mammoth movie palace with 3,200 seats and impressive, if jumbled, Art Deco, Renaissance and ornate Baroque architectural flourishes. It had a long pink marble lobby, dramatic staircases and heavy burgundy-colored drapery.
The old theater's facade and some interior features will be preserved, officials said, but the huge, single auditorium will be divided to create the modern multiplex. Built in 1929, the Kings is a landmark of Brooklyn memories, a place, for instance, where Barbra Streisand worked as an usher.
Mayor Giuliani, who visited the Loews Kings as a child, recalled its former glory and said the community is now filled with striving immigrants who speak more than 70 languages and are steadily rebuilding the neighborhood. "Those of you who are familiar with the old Loews Kings Theater as I was, remember this was a true entertainment center," Mr. Giuliani said. "Now with this redevelopment, it will help to revitalize and continue the ongoing revitalization of the neighborhood."
Charles Millard, the president of the New York City Development Corporation, which negotiated the deal with Mr. Johnson, credited the city's drop in crime and rejuvenated economy with making the new theater project possible. "This city is a different city and that neighborhood is a different neighborhood than it was five years ago," he said. At yesterday's news conference, he said his parents had gone to the old Loews Kings on dates before they were married.
Mr. Johnson said the project had particular sentimental value to his partners at Loews Theaters, Sony's movie chain, both because the old theater was an original Loews property and because the chain is based in New York City. The refurbishment is expected to create 175 construction jobs, and the new theater is expected to create 100 jobs for local residents, including after-school jobs for teen-agers.
When reporters asked Mr. Johnson if he had reservations about appearing with Mr. Giuliani at a time when many black elected officials and business leaders have been demonstrating over the shooting death of Amadou Diallo, the former basketball star maintained the cool confidence he had as a player on the rare occasions that he was grilled about mishaps on the court.
"We are trying to supply jobs for minorities and black people," he said, "and I think those black leaders will be happy about that because those people in Brooklyn will have jobs."
When the question came up again, he did not waver. "This is a big announcement, this is going to impact a community here in New York and in Brooklyn; if we can't see that then we're all here for the wrong reason," he said. "This is about 100 jobs for minorities. It's about another 175, just like we have done in Houston, Atlanta and Los Angeles. We have impacted a community. We have brought pride to a community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the redevelopment of the Loews Kings Theater in Brooklyn by Magic Johnson Theaters referred imprecisely to the company's partner in the project. It is Loews Cineplex Entertainment, not the Sony Corporation. (Sony is the largest shareholder of Loews Cineplex Entertainment.)
The article also referred incompletely to Magic Johnson's plans for a movie theater in Harlem. Although two previous deals for the company to build there fell through, it has signed an agreement to operate a nine-screen theater at Harlem U.S.A., a retail and entertainment complex under construction on West 125th Street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Loews Kings Theater in Brooklyn. The Theater, closed since 1977, will be renovated and reopened by Magic Johnson Theaters. At left, Mr. Johnson with Una Clarke, a City Councilwoman, at yesterday's City Hall announcement. (Associated Press); (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Plans to refurbish Loews Kings Theater call for retaining its facade and some of its interior features. At right, an example of the facade's ornate details. At left, the exterior of the theater, looking out on Flatbush Avenue. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing the location of the theater. The landmark theater on Flatbush Avenue had 3,200 seats. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (68%); SNE (NYSE) (68%); 6758 (TSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LOEWS KINGS THEATER (BROOKLYN) SONY CORP (68%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOEWS KINGS THEATER (BROOKLYN) LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) BASKETBALL (91%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FILM (89%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; JOHNSON, EARVIN (MAGIC) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



506 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: THE POP LIFE;
Tough Times: Rock's Incubator Turns Down the Heat

BYLINE: By NEIL STRAUSS 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., March 21

 BODY:
In the past at the South by Southwest convention, for years the rock business's most important cavalcade of performances and panel discussions, talent scouts came looking for tomorrow's rock stars. Acts like Fastball, Lisa Loeb, the Presidents of the United States of America, Cake and even Hanson set deals in motion here. But something was different this year.
The change was best represented by the agenda of one scout from a major label. Speaking on condition of anonymity, he said he had come here not to sign a band, but to prevent his label from signing one. The group's contract with his label had expired, he said, and he wanted tm make sure no one else at the label tried to renew it at the band's showcase performance. 
 During this convention, held from Wednesday to Saturday, it was impossible to ignore the effects of record-label consolidation and rock's cyclical fall from commercial grace. The atmosphere was like Bourbon Street in New Orleans after Mardi Gras but when even the die-hard revelers have gone home, leaving the streets dirty and desolate.
"I never thought I'd see the day when I didn't care about Sonic Youth," said another major-label talent scout, referring to the seminal New York alternative rock band. "It's sad what's happened to indie rock. This is the least exciting year I've been here."
And so it went. The number of major labels at South by Southwest severely dwindled this year, with almost no top executives in attendance and many lesser employees opting to stay home. Even the bulk of smaller independent labels didn't bother to bring their most popular bands, only the struggling ones.
The convention center and showcases for unsigned bands seemed emptier than usual, though a conference spokeswoman said attendance was up slightly from last year's 6,000. And most tellingly, a new music-industry class emerged: the great unemployed, laid off as a result of consolidation, chiefly Universal's recent acquisition of Polygram. Most were trying to find new opportunities but ended up just sharing war tales, like the Mercury employee who remembered colleagues being summoned to a room 50 at a time to get laid off one January afternoon.
Nighttime concert showcases were no longer just for unsigned bands: they were also for former Polygram bands like Radish and Robbie Fulks, both of whose record deals were recently terminated. Overall there was a sense that festivalgoers were no longer on the cutting edge. Speakers at panels agreed that the biggest thing happening in music today was setting beats to rhymes: rap. Yet here they all were, holding the rock banner in the air and wondering when people would start noticing it again.
"The economy is booming, the Internet is popping, the Dow is reaching 10,000, but the music industry is acting like it's waking up from a really bad hangover," said Andrew Rasiej, who heads the New York Nightlife Association and a charity called Mouse, which brings computer networks to schools.
This feeling of neglect, of having missed the bus, was also common at a separate convention in Miami, the Winter Music Conference, a five-day event for electronic dance music that ended on the day South by Southwest began.
When alternative rock began to wane commercially three years ago, major labels looked to electronic dance music to plug the gap. Instead, as pop veered back into the middle of the road with the Spice Girls, Hanson and fey boy bands like the Backstreet Boys, the contrarian fringe movement came not from white music (the rock of South by Southwest or the electronica of Miami) but from black music, showing just how little control the established industry -- denizens of conventions like these -- has over pop success.
(To be fair, the Miami conference isn't all electronica: it's also known for its component of Latin dance music, a genre with sales on an upswing and one that the established business is even less equipped to deal with than rap, despite a few visionary executives who began taking crash courses in Spanish this winter.)
The lack of a viable rock undercurrent in some ways made South by Southwest a success, signaling an end to mercenary concertgoing and a return to music for music's sake. Some at the conference simply chose to see the group Built to Spill perform three nights in a row, and they were better off for it. This ever-changing Boise, Idaho, group boasted its strongest lineup, blurring lyrically astute songs into sonically intense guitar solos and proving itself to be one of the closest things alternative rock has to a classic rock band.
Younger performers like Diane Izzo, a songwriter from Chicago, probably would have been the object of a major label bidding war three years ago, hailed as the next P. J. Harvey or Liz Phair. Instead, Ms. Izzo played her winningly dark-minded rock this year in a half-empty club with few record executives in attendance.
Thanks in part to Austin's deep well of songwriters, it was possible to go out every night and hear great music without ever attending a show by anyone under 35. (As talent scouts will tell you, with the same conviction with which they once said that rap was dead, no one over 35 is going to be the next big thing.)
Semi-reclusive artists well past their showcasing days, like Tom Waits and Jeff Beck, flew into town in hopes of building excitement for their new albums. The back garden of a Mexican restaurant played host to a high-spirited jam including Joe Ely, Freddy Fender, Rosie Flores and Ruben Ramos.
A fatigued Lucinda Williams turned in a lackluster performance in support of a terrific album. Guy Clark, Clarence (Gatemouth) Brown and the always talented, always inconsistent Terry Allen -- with a guest appearance by David Byrne -- performed to a packed house at Liberty Lunch. (Willie Nelson was scheduled to perform with Leon Russell, but the show was rained out.) Even Wanda Jackson, the 61-year-old rockabilly queen, played one night at 1 A.M.
In contrast to past years, when the shows with the most buzz (jargon that conjures images of both swarming and irritation) were by young alternative rock bands, this year's most talked-about show was by a pop star, Robbie Williams, formerly of Take That. He erected an elaborate arena-ready performance in the tiny garden of an Austin club to kick off an American campaign that he hopes will make him as big a celebrity here as he is in Britain.
As conferencegoers complained of the lack of hip-hop, only a handful of people ended up at the best of the week's few rap shows, by the savvy-rhyming Ugly Duckling, of Long Beach, Calif., at Bob Popular. They performed as teen-agers outside took turns demonstrating a loose-limbed style of break-dancing as part of what they called the Texas swing-hop scene.
The most interesting shows were the oddest. Todos los Manos were a German group featuring members from Chile, Brazil and Hamburg singing in Spanish, Portuguese, French and English (but not German) and playing hard-driving songs that switched styles every 30 seconds. Bellatrix, a mostly female quintet from Iceland, packed Bob Popular one night, mixing violin, drum loops, and wailing, biting avant-rock vocals.
Japanese bands once again matched their American counterparts in talent and diversity, from the big-beat dance-rockers Boom Boom Satellites to the obsessive record collector known as Fantastic Plastic Machine to the guitar-bashing girl pop group Seagull Screaming Kiss Her Kiss Her.
Despite so much good music, many people left the conference with the sinking feeling of having spent a week treading water with a rock tied to their legs.
"We need to give the music back to the people," Lucinda Williams said in a keynote speech that began the conference. "I don't think major labels are working anymore." On a panel on the closing day of the conference, David Byrne echoed her sentiments.
This moment in pop may seem like a time of low spirits and layoffs. But in retrospect it may prove to be one of the most exciting periods to be involved, especiaslly with the changes that will be wrought by the Internet; label consolidation; the sale of concert companies, record labels and options on song royalties to Wall Street, and the rise of easy-to-use computer programs enabling anyone to become a producer. Those out of work today may be the ones starting companies vital to reassembling the business in coming years.
All this hasn't gone unnoticed by the producers of South by Southwest: in recent years they've started conferences on interactive technology and film to surround the music festival, clearly envisioning a day when the rock convention seems as quaint as a television without cable.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
The Pop Life column on Wednesday about the South by Southwest music convention held last week in Austin, Tex., misstated the status of a record deal by the group Radish. The group's contract was not terminated; it was transferred from Mercury to Island/Def Jam.
The column also misidentified a German band that performed at the convention. The group's name is Ninos Con Bombas, not Todos los Manos.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Teya, Joe Ely and Joel Guzman performing in Austin, Tex. (Ebet Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN (TEX); ; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; ROCK MUSIC; SOUTH BY SOUTHWEST MUSIC AND MEDIA CONFERENCE; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) POP & ROCK (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); US PRESIDENTS (57%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



507 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2104 words

HEADLINE: Leadership Void Hobbles CUNY as It Faces Severe Problems

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Two years ago, Gov. George E. Pataki gave the trustees of the chronically troubled City University of New York a new chairwoman with a mandate to steer the university in a new direction. Less than five months later, the trustees got the chance to shape their own management team when they forced the resignation of Chancellor W. Ann Reynolds.
But in the 20 months since, the opening the trustees created at the top of the university has turned into a yawning gulf. 
 Not only has the board failed to find a permanent chancellor. Other top executives at the university have been leaving one by one. Five of CUNY's top jobs are now filled by temporary appointees: there is an acting chancellor, an acting deputy chancellor, two acting vice chancellors, and an acting dean for student services.
The presidencies of 5 of its 17 undergraduate campuses are open or about to open, and at least 2 more presidents have been seeking other jobs.
While CUNY continues to function despite all these openings, there is a pervasive sense of crisis and lost opportunity as the university awaits a report from a task force appointed last year by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. The panel, led by the former Yale president Benno C. Schmidt Jr., was asked to investigate CUNY and draw up a plan for the future; the report is expected next month.
There are few hard numbers by which to gauge the cost of the leadership vacuum. But officials and faculty members say it has had tangible effects.
*Long-range planning has virtually stopped.
*Major administrative functions, like preparing budgets, are now being performed by the board itself.
*Morale has suffered. "The level of morale is in the basement," said Sandi E. Cooper, a history professor at CUNY's College of Staten Island who is a former chairwoman of the faculty senate, "because of the insecurity of not knowing whether you are going to be rewarded or blown up at, respected or not believed."
*Recruiting of faculty members and high-level administrators has been handicapped.
"The number of people applying for the college presidencies is much lower than it used to be," said Edith B. Everett, a trustee. "Without a permanent chancellor, they have no idea of the kind of leadership they will be operating under, the direction of the university, what its philosophy is and the support they will receive. Right now, there is a perception of chaos."
The trustees had hoped to have a new chancellor in place months ago, and their search committee had selected three finalists last summer. But the process broke down when the Governor and Mayor failed to approve any of them; they did not even summon them for interviews.
To some, the stalled search was a sign that the university and its trustees, who are responsible for appointing the chancellor, did not control their own destiny.
While the acting chancellor, Christoph M. Kimmich, has earned great respect inside CUNY and outside -- Governor Pataki's office last week said he had done an "excellent job" -- there is a widespread awareness that he and many of his staff are caretakers. "It's not that we don't like Christoph Kimmich; he's done an unbelievably great job under the circumstances," said William P. Kelly, provost at CUNY's graduate center. "But how can you plan when you don't know who is going to be in charge in a year or two?"
And Herman Badillo, the vice chairman of CUNY's board, says the interim appointments also color the way the university is perceived on the outside. "You have to have a new chancellor for the Governor and the Mayor to have confidence in CUNY," he said. "An interim chancellor doesn't do it, because he doesn't have the authority to move."
Even Dr. Kimmich says the university is "not best served by a state of uncertainty."
"There is a sense of being a bit on hold," he said.
A permanent chancellor could be expected to grapple more forcefully with the critical problems facing CUNY: its tattered reputation, its shrinking financial resources, the demands for changing the way it operates.
Without such a leader, the trustees and the Mayor and the Governor have involved themselves in policy matters on an unusually detailed level.
"The gap in leadership has empowered the worst aspects of the trustees, who are trying to micromanage the university," said Bernard Sohmer, the faculty representative on the CUNY board. "Most of the presidents are terrified about what might come next."
In addition to the lack of permanent leaders, CUNY faces challenges on many fronts.
It has come under fire from the Governor and Mayor, among others, over academic standards they say are far too lax.
Enrollment has fallen, at a time when other New York colleges are seeing their applications soar. This semester's total of 193,505 students is off about 2 percent from last year, and down 9 percent from the 1994 peak of 212,634, raising questions about underused capacity on some campuses.
The university is in severe financial straits. Its budget has risen little since the early 1990's after inflation is taken into account. State and city support have fallen sharply, leaving CUNY more squeezed than many public universities. Both the Governor and Mayor are refusing to pay for faculty salary increases approved in the union contract for next year.
The trustees themselves are sharply divided over CUNY's direction and priorities, and have lacked both strong leadership and the confidence of elected leaders in Albany and New York City.
 
Instead of a Buffer, 'A Conduit for Politics'
The largest urban university in the United States, CUNY was once a beacon in public higher education, and in some ways it still burns brightly. But in other ways it is under siege.
"I wouldn't want to characterize what happened before as higher-education nirvana," said Patrick M. Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, in San Jose, Calif. "But CUNY is now caught in the middle of a partisan, ideological circus."
It is not unusual that the trustees are political appointees. At CUNY, the Governor appoints 10 of the 17 trustees and the Mayor 5. (There is also one faculty trustee and one student trustee.)
What is unusual is the Mayor's and Governor's close involvement in shaping CUNY's policies -- and in choosing a new chancellor.
"Usually, boards are meant to be a buffer from the politics," said Joseph Burke of the Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany. "Here, it is more like they are a conduit for the politics."
For his part, the Governor is happy with the trustees' progress, his chief of staff, Bradford J. Race, said.In particular, Mr. Race commended the passage of a hotly debated measure in January that will bar students from bachelor's degree programs if they need remedial work in reading, writing or mathematics, although they can still enroll in the community colleges.
He added that the Governor's office was also now pleased with CUNY's chairwoman, Anne A. Paolucci, whom Mr. Pataki had attacked after he grew dissatisfied with the slow pace of change.
But as the trustees themselves note, much of the board's progress has come in close, hotly contested votes. Although the votes of the Mayor's appointees have generally been consistent with his vision, Governor Pataki's appointees have splintered.
Dr. Paolucci denies that anyone outside the board is affecting policy. But others on the board say that the Mayor has been a primary force in drawing up policies like the one on remedial education.
The Mayor's press office did not respond to several telephone calls seeking comment about CUNY.
 
Trying to Provide A Sense of Direction
Dr. Kimmich, the mild-mannered historian who was appointed interim chancellor in November 1997 and had expected to return to his job as Brooklyn College's provost long ago, has tried to provide a calming influence and a sense of direction amid the disarray.
In the fall, for example, he worked with the trustees to draw up a five-year budget proposal for Albany, rather than the usual one-year request. This month, he led college presidents and other top administrators on an off-campus retreat to discuss long-term planning.
"Regardless of my tenure, we need to set targets and engage people in forward planning process and make sure things do get done," Dr. Kimmich said. "It may not be the norm for someone who is in a temporary position, but I don't think we can wait."
The trustees set up a committee to find a new chancellor in late 1997. With the help of a search firm, the committee conducted interviews and by last summer had produced a short list of finalists: David Adamany, the former president of Wayne State University; Richard H. Ekman, the secretary of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, and Warren H. Fox, the executive director of the California Postsecondary Education Commission.
What was most notable about the list, however, was that it did not include the man described as the Mayor's and Governor's candidate, SUNY's provost, Peter D. Salins. Although CUNY's search committee interviewed Mr. Salins, trustees on the committee said last summer that his presentation went poorly. Mr. Salins has declined to discuss the CUNY search.
Neither CUNY's bylaws nor state or city laws call for the Governor or Mayor to approve the appointment of a chancellor. CUNY's trustees hold that power. Although the chairwoman called the forwarding of the three candidates' names to the Mayor and the Governor last summer a courtesy, other trustees say it is one more sign of the Governor's and Mayor's influence over CUNY affairs.
One of the three candidates, Dr. Adamany, has since withdrawn, and the search committee has not met since.
Dr. Paolucci, who heads the search committee, would not comment on the events so far. She said the search firm was supposed to be finding more names, but was not finding many.
"We have good candidates," she said, "but we want to build up the list. It is a very important job."
Other members of the panel say they have heard nothing about the resumption of the search, but they and others wonder if they can even find a plausible candidate who will want the job. Some college presidents who were approached said the position involved too many political land mines.
"How do you get the kind of leadership you want when the position begins to look like a municipal appointee?" Mr. Callan asked, referring to the Mayor's role in prescribing policy. "The person has got to be accountable, but not in the same way as a municipal employee."
 
Moving Ahead In Spite of Turmoil
Beneath the turmoil at the top, the university has continued to function, often in impressive ways: the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching named a Queens College professor the state's 1998 Teacher of the Year, the third CUNY faculty member in four years to be so honored. John Jay College of Criminal Justice was rated the leading graduate program in criminal justice last year, ahead of Harvard, by U.S. News & World Report.
CUNY is also working to improve student preparation so more students can pass its placement tests when they arrive. It has expanded its College Now program to 50 high schools, so 10th, 11th and 12th graders can take CUNY's placement examinations and receive remedial help before they graduate. The university is also expanding its intensive "immersion" programs for students who fail the tests.
Officials say they are encouraged that new applications are running 2 percent ahead of last year and that applicants to the senior colleges, which are raising their entrance requirements, are better prepared than those of a couple of years ago.
The mood on campuses is varied. While some students and faculty applaud the attempts to remake the university and see the turmoil as the cost of making sweeping changes, others say they are worn down by the constant attacks on the university, using words like "battle fatigue" and "numbness" to describe how they feel.
Some who follow CUNY politics predict that no serious chancellor candidate will be put forward until summer, when Mr. Pataki has the opportunity to make new appointments to the board, solidifying control.
But Mr. Race said that the Governor's office had no such plan, and added that he believed CUNY's board was pressing ahead with its search.
Although he expressed admiration for Mr. Salins, he said the Governor had no particular candidate. "I know Peter well, and he's doing a great job at SUNY," Mr. Race said, "but I would have an interest in anybody with his qualities who expressed an interest in the job."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 24 about a leadership void at the City University of New York misstated its peak enrollment figure, reached in the fall of 1974. It was 252,956, not 212,634.

GRAPHIC: Photo: CUNY's acting chancellor, Christoph M. Kimmich, left, is viewed as a caretaker. Its chairwoman, Anne A. Paolucci, to his left, spoke at a board meeting on Monday. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "KEPING TRACK: Missing Class at CUNY"
Enrollment at the City University of New York declined 2 percent this year and has fallen 9 percent since 1994. Below, spring enrollment at the 19 campuses; the largest declines are given in bold.
 
Chart shows the decline in enrollment percentages among the 19 campuses of the City University of New York.
 
(Source: CUNY)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES APPOINTMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HISTORY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); MAYORS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999



508 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Patient's Right to Sue

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Managed-care consumers will be fleeced if Congress adopts independent external review as a substitute for, rather than a complement to, a patient's right to go to court to seek full redress for injuries (Economic Scene, March 18). 
 Federal law grants protection from medical malpractice liability to private-sector, employer-paid insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other managed-care organizations. Adding external review to the law would do nothing to change this corporate shield.
Because health plans can often avoid fully compensating injured patients, the law gives H.M.O.'s an incentive to deny necessary care. Allowing consumers access to state-court remedies will give managed-care companies the incentive to make sound medical decisions in the first instance.
 
FRANK CLEMENTE
Washington, March 18, 1999
 
The writer is director of Public Citizen's Congress Watch. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS WATCH (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); CONGRESS WATCH (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS WATCH (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); CONGRESS WATCH (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (93%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LITIGATION (88%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INSURANCE (70%); 

PERSON: CLEMENTE, FRANK

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



509 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Saner Debate on Steel

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "A Divisive Steel-Quota Debate Moves to the Senate" (Business Day, March 24): The decline of employment in the United States steel industry does not necessarily correlate with the decline of the industry as a whole. Yes, the industry employs fewer steel workers, but the United States remains the second leading steel producer in the world. 
 Other countries like our trade policy because it allows them to use our market to dump steel to stabilize their economies.
But do we really want a trade policy that deliberately sacrifices domestic industry and workers for the vague goal of stabilizing the world economy? Instead of promoting export-driven remedies abroad, the United States should encourage demand-led policies that would improve the lives of the foreign workers and protect American workers from unfairly traded goods.
 
JUDITH STEIN
New York, March 24, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; QUOTAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); EXPORT PROMOTION (66%); 

PERSON: STEIN, JUDITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



510 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Against Internal Aggression

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Never will so many nations inflict so much destruction with so little relish.
Because outrage is absent and the public's war spirit is lacking; because few in NATO want to see the collateral damage sure to be inflicted as bombs go astray; and because foreign policy is so foreign to our economy-fixated discourse, Americans are asking as we go in: What national interest impels us to intervene to stop an independence movement from losing?
Four categories of answers, the first three of them unhappy:
1. The simplifiers. President Clinton painfully gives the reason designed to stir emotion and rally popular support: "President Milosevic . . . has again chosen aggression over peace." Serbian forces are "burning down Kosovar Albanian villages and murdering civilians."
2. The thoughtful internationalists. Senators like Richard Lugar and John McCain are reluctant to see us lurch into combat commitment with no end in sight. They find themselves forced to support the bombing of the Serbs because to do otherwise after all our threatening would be to reveal the alliance of Western nations as a pitiful, helpless giant.
3. The anti-Wilsonians. Henry Kissinger exhibits "great unease" at NATO's decision to intervene; his conceptual framework holds Woodrow Wilson's principle of self-determination to be unduly idealistic and destabilizing. He stops short of saying we should not join the bombing because he does not want to disestablish the foreign policy Establishment.
4. The America Firsters and the quagmire-avoiders. Now that the McGovernite left has fallen silent about taking sides in a civil war, anti-war voices are mainly from the Republican right, and they alone are unconflicted. They condemn the multilateral intervention, arguing: If Serbia refuses to allow a province coveted by neighboring Albania to secede, outsiders have no right to label such defense of its national borders "aggression" and to support the rebels. Russia agrees: If NATO can help the Kosovars break away from Serbia, then it can help the Chechens break away from Russia. That's why Yevgeny Primakov had to turn around and go home.
I'm in a separate school with President Wilson, who was three generations ahead of his time. Wilson was an arrogant idealist, a troublemaking rearranger of national borders who summed up his vision thus: "Every people has a right to choose the sovereignty under which they shall live." (Great principle; bad sentence structure.)
We now live in a world of satellite-televised brutality and computer-samizdat suffering; repression is hard to hide. If a large ethnic group dominating the demography of a province wants to be independent, it can assert its desire for self-determination in a dramatic way that earns a decent respect of the Opinion of Mankind.
Sometimes this desire is misplaced, overlooking the strengths of national diversity and the blessings of the melting pot. Quebecers think about separation; unrepressed by Canada, they decide democratically to stay in. Puerto Ricans, able easily to dissolve ties to the U.S., wisely choose not to. East Timor, bloodily annexed by Indonesia, can now opt in or out.
But what happens when a people -- bonded by linguistic, cultural, racial or religious ties -- is denied the expression of its culture, and then demands sovereignty from despots? If those oppressees are ready to shed their own blood and that of their territorial hosts, their sometimes self-induced agony, projected on the world's attention screen, becomes a persuasive argument for "humanitarian intercession."
If the repressing country is powerful, the sovereignty does not change; too bad for now, Tibet.
If its leadership is savagely dictatorial but vulnerable, as in Iraq, repression is restricted from outside: We'll enforce your autonomy, you Kurds, but no independent Kurdistan lest your compatriots in Turkey and Iran get ideas.
If the villainous sovereign is relatively weak and the potential bloodshed is horrendous, then in we go (with bombs, not troops) to save the Kosovars.
Consistent and principled? Not quite. But the trend at century's end is toward self-determination, propelled by a world audience humanely averse to seeing casualties up close. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); ETHNICITY (60%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; WILSON, WOODROW (1856-1924) BILL CLINTON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



511 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Drop of 5% Is Reported In Orders for Durable Goods

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24

 BODY:
Factory orders for big-ticket goods posted the largest decline in more than seven years in February, a sign that an expected recovery in manufacturing could be a few months away, the Commerce Department said today.
"We're not out of the woods yet," said Kathleen Stephansen, an economist at the Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation in New York. 
 Weaker demand for aircraft, electronics and industrial machinery contributed to last month's 5 percent drop in durable goods orders, the Commerce Department said. The decline, to $191.8 billion in February orders -- after gains of 3.3 percent in January and 3.4 percent in December -- was the largest since a 6.5 percent drop in December 1991 as the economy was emerging from recession.
Excluding aircraft, autos and other transportation equipment, the drop was not quite as severe, with orders falling 1.7 percent last month after rising 0.1 percent in January.
February's decline in factory orders also runs counter to signs of strength in other reports. The National Association of Purchasing Management's latest survey showed manufacturing expanded in February for the first time in nine months. And the Federal Reserve reported a gain in February industrial output.
A 14.3 percent drop in orders for transportation equipment last month dominated the overall plunge in durable goods orders, the Commerce Department said. Other major categories showed weakness as well, with a 8.5 percent decline in electronics and electrical equipment orders and a four-tenths of a percent fall in industrial machinery.
Primary metals was the only major category showing an increase, rising 7.2 percent. Steel imports fell for the third consecutive month in January. That brought them close to the level before last year's surge in shipments from overseas set off trade complaints from United States manufacturers and the Government imposed duties on certain types of imported steel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" tracks manufacturers total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from September 1997 through February 1999. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (93%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); RECESSION (78%); AVIONICS (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



512 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Loan Delinquencies Rose in 4th Quarter

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24

 BODY:
Delinquencies among credit card, home equity and auto loan borrowers rose slightly in the fourth quarter, yet the number remains well below record levels, the American Bankers Association reported today.
The group said 3.45 percent of credit card accounts were past due in the fourth quarter, up from 3.28 percent in the third quarter but below the peak of 3.72 percent in the fourth quarter of 1996. 
 Measured by dollar amount, delinquencies fell to 4.62 percent from 4.63 percent in the third quarter, the study said.
The association's composite ratio of eight types of consumer loans, such as auto, personal and home equity lines, showed delinquent debt rose to 1.97 percent in the October-December period from 1.83 percent. The number of delinquent accounts rose to 2.35 percent in the fourth quarter from 2.29 percent in the July-September period.
James Chessen, chief economist at the trade group, said consumers took on slightly more debt due partly to "a good job market, confidence in the economy and a rise in the stock market." Delinquencies tend to rise as debt burdens increase, he said.
A Federal Reserve study earlier this month showed consumer borrowing rose in January at the fastest pace in three years. Borrowing rose by $14.7 billion, to $1.316 trillion, after rising a revised $3.1 billion in December, initially reported as an increase of $7.3 billion. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (92%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



513 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Fails to Join In as Nasdaq Rises From Tuesday Losses

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Technology stocks caught fire in the last 90 minutes of trading yesterday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to a 1.83 percent gain, a recovery of more than half of what it lost in the broad market selloff Tuesday.
The late rally did little, however, for blue-chip stocks as the Dow Jones industrial average, dragged down by American Express and oil issues, slipped 4.99 points, to 9,666.84, receding further from the 10,000 mark it flirted with last week. 
 The Nasdaq rose 42.44 points, to 2,365.28. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.45 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 1,268.59.
The session began ominously, with markets in Tokyo and Hong Kong skidding about 3 percent overnight and tension building from NATO's decision to begin bombing Kosovo.
But instead of turning to renewed selling, the market steadied. One contributor, analysts said, was Abby Joseph Cohen, the influential Goldman, Sachs strategist, who predicted the Dow would rise to 10,300 by the end of the year, up from her previous prediction of 9,850.
"We expect 1999 and 2000 to be years of ongoing profit expansion, with better aggregate gains than 1998, which was disappointing," she said in a report to clients.
Another factor may have been bullish words from Merrill Lynch & Company about I.B.M., which also announced a $3 billion order for computer parts from EMC. I.B.M., the Dow's biggest gainer, rose 4 1/8, to 169 1/2. EMC jumped 5, to 118 7/8.
A Government report of the biggest decline in more than seven years for big-ticket manufactured goods also seemed to help settle the stock market. A slowing economy implies lower interest rates.
The market mostly marked time until President Clinton announced the beginning of the bombing, apparently dispelling some of the uncertainty that Wall Street detests.
"We got a surge of buying in high-tech stocks," said Anthony O'Bryan, a market analyst at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. "Perhaps that's signaling that the worst of the correction is over." Sometimes the most auspicious market turns, he added, are those touched off by no particular news, but only a sense that the pendulum has swung too far.
Hank Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed in Overland Park, Kan., said a sound high-technology sector was essential if the market is to resume its advance. "It's tough for the stock market to make a lot of progress with tech bumping along," he said.
Technology issues, along with blue chips, paced the market's long rise into record territory but have succumbed of late to evidence of slackened growth and fears of overvaluation, especially compared with lesser stocks, which have mostly lagged.
The Russell 2000 index of small companies, for example, has fallen 8.9 percent this year, compared with a 7.87 percent gain for the Nasdaq and a 5.29 percent gain for the Dow.
The latest Internet deal found no shortage of buyers. Miningco.com Inc., which supplies human guides for people trying to search the Web, saw its initial public stock offering, priced at 25, soar as high as 62 1/4 before closing at 47 1/2.
Among the high-technology gainers were Microsoft, up 4 11/16, to 171 1/4; Intel, up 4 11/16, to 119 1/4; Dell, up 2 13/16, to 38 1/2, and Cisco, up 4 1/8, to 104 7/16.
 
Prices of Treasuries Rise
By Bloomberg News
Bond prices rose yesterday as investors willingly bought $15 billion of two-year Treasury notes and snapped up the record $8 billion of debt sold on Tuesday by the AT&T Corporation.
The price of the 30-year Treasury rose 4/32, to 95 30/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, edged down to 5.53 percent from 5.54 percent on Tuesday. The yield on AT&T's $3 billion of 30-year bonds was 89 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, higher. The yield on current two-year Treasury notes was unchanged at 4.98 percent.
The two-year note sale yesterday garnered a yield of 4.995 percent, as expected. Investors bid for 2.2 times the amount of securities being auctioned. At the previous 10 two-year auctions, investors bid for 2.33 times the amount of notes auctioned.
Demand was strong enough to allay concerns that people would not want the securities after buying the jumbo issue from AT&T.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.774
High Yield . . . 4.995%
Low Yield . . . 4.901%
Median Yield . . . 4.968%
Accepted at low price . . . 20%
Total applied for . . . $39,664,052
Accepted . . . $21,587,982
Noncompetitive . . . $1,416,952
Interest set at . . . 4 7/8
 
The 2-year notes mature Mar. 31, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); WDR (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%); JAPAN (56%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (51%); WADDELL & REED INC (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%); JAPAN (56%); KANSAS, USA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



514 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
In Yugoslavia, Economy Is Already Limp

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
With the Yugoslav economy already battered and trade limited since international economic sanctions were first imposed in 1992, air strikes by the United States and its NATO allies against Serbia are unlikely to cause great economic harm.
Asked about the economic impact, Andrew Kenningham, an Eastern European economist at Merrill Lynch in London, said, "It's completely irrelevant." 
 Yugoslavia's total exports in 1998 rose to $3 billion, from $2.4 billion in 1997, and of that total, only $12.6 million went to the United States. The country imported $73.9 million worth of American goods last year, according to the Bureau of the Census.
Both numbers were up from 1997, when $10.4 million of Yugoslav goods -- about four-tenths of a percent -- were shipped to the United States, and Yugoslav imports from the United States totaled about $54 million. Yugoslav exports consisted primarily of manufactured goods, machinery and commodities.
NATO said that it began air strikes against Serbian military targets in Yugoslavia yesterday because Belgrade refused to sign a peace deal on Kosovo and halt Serbian violence against ethnic Albanians there.
Although the direct economic impact of the military actions will be limited, there could be a negative impact on relations between the United States and Russia or on Wall Street if the military action rattles investors, said Morris Goldstein, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Italy was Yugoslavia's largest trading partner in 1997; taking about 12 percent of its exports. Macedonia and Germany accounted for about 9 percent of exports, and Russia, a traditional Serbian ally, accounted for 7 percent. Yugoslavia's primary exports are fruits and vegetables, chemicals, iron, steel and textiles. Before economic sanctions were imposed, the United States sent aircraft, computers and other products there.
Yugoslavia's thinly traded currency, the dinar, fell slightly to 10.66 dinars to the dollar yesterday, down from 10.7 on Tuesday. That means that one dinar is worth a little more than 9 cents. It has lost more than half its value in the year since the Kosovo conflict began, moving from 4.85 to the dollar, or about 21 cents, to its current level.
As a result of a possible devaluation, the dinar had traded as high as about 11.15 during the past 12 months, said Jamie Coleman, managing foreign exchange analyst at Thomson Global Markets in Boston. Sanctions prevent trading of the dinar in the United States.
Yugoslavia's economy is among the victims of the civil war that broke out in 1991. It is now characterized by black market dealings, bartering and hyperinflation. The breakup, which left Yugoslavia with only two republics, Serbia and Montenegro, destroyed the country's industrial sector, cutting off Serbia's large manufacturing sectors from suppliers and outlets -- a situation that was worsened by international sanctions, imposed in June 1992 and lifted in January 1996. The United States imposed sanctions again in 1998.
Few American companies have a presence in Yugoslavia. Nike Inc. has manufactured a small amount of footwear-related equipment there, a spokesman said, adding that he would have to check on the present situation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); TRENDS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); DEVALUATION (67%); CENSUS (56%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



515 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Politically Correct Mergers;
Europe's Deal Frenzy Tends to Stop at National Borders

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: PARIS, March 23

 BODY:
It looks, some say, like a European replay of the 1980's on Wall Street: hostile takeovers, poison pills, white knights and an endless stream of high-priced investment bankers pitching new deals.
Certainly, Europe has never seen anything quite like it. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton is trying to buy Gucci Group of Italy. Gucci is seeking refuge by teaming up with yet another French raider, Francois Pinault. 
 Meanwhile, Olivetti, an Italian computer and communications equipment maker, is making a hostile bid for Italy's biggest phone company. And France's largest banks are in a three-way takeover brawl that has amazed both the country's financial elite and the French Government.
For all the adventurism, though, something big is missing. Despite the talk of an integrating Europe driven to get together by its new single currency, very few deals so far involve cross-border transactions between European companies.
Instead, many of the mergers seem intended at keeping foreigners -- especially other Europeans -- at bay. Indeed, many such deals are explicitly promoted on nationalistic grounds.
When Banque Nationale de Paris announced a surprise bid to take over its two main rivals, its chairman noted that "there are three main banks in France and they should remain in French hands." In Italy, the head of Olivetti appealed to the same sentiments in justifying his $58 billion hostile bid for the national telephone company.
"You still have a tendency of viewing banks or industrial corporations as national treasures," said Herbert Aspbury, head of client management at Chase Manhattan in Europe. "This is probably the first step or a necessary consolidation process, but I don't think the second step of cross-border mergers will happen quickly."
Indeed, Europe's biggest cross-border deals have been with American companies. Daimler-Benz took over the Chrysler Corporation. Deutsche Bank is acquiring Bankers Trust. Koninklijke Ahold, a big Dutch supermarket company, bought Giant Food in the Washington-Baltimore area.
Within Europe itself, national deals have been the rule. Banque Nationale de Paris shocked the French establishment two weeks ago by launching a hostile takeover attempt against Banque Paribas and Societe Generale, just a month after those two announced their own plans to merge.
The French battle follows major bank mergers in Switzerland, Spain and Germany. Indeed, Switzerland's two largest banks, UBS and the Swiss Bank Corporation, set the pace a year ago by forming the world's biggest bank.
The pattern has continued. Just last Sunday, Italy's four biggest banks announced plans for two takeovers worth about $26 billion in all.
Nationalism prevails as well in fields like car manufacturing. France has made it clear it would almost certainly block any attempt to buy Renault, in which it still owns 44 percent of the shares. But it is willing to allow Renault to buy a 35 percent share of Japan's Nissan Motor. Fiat of Italy is out of reach, because the Agnelli family retains firm control through a convoluted network of affiliated companies.
Mergers have run aground even in the defense industry, where European governments badly want their national aerospace companies to unite in a single powerful enterprise. Those plans have been derailed by deep disagreements among British, French and German companies.
The exceptions seem to prove the rule, too. In what would be one of Europe's biggest cross-border deals, Hoechst of Germany and Rhone-Poulenc of France announced plans in December to merge their pharmaceutical businesses. But that deal is on shaky ground, in part because the two companies worked so hard to be politically correct.
Not only did Hoechst and Rhone-Poulenc agree to pool their shares in a "merger of equals," they also agreed to build a new headquarters in Strasbourg, as close to the border between France and Germany as it is possible to get.
That was all well and good. The problem was that most experts believe Hoechst is worth more than Rhone-Poulenc. That generated complaints from Hoechst's biggest shareholder, the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, which is worried about being short-changed and has still not given its approval.
To be sure, the merger frenzy does signal a revolution in European business practices. The clubby corporate networks, in which banks and conglomerates hold each other's stocks, are breaking down. Companies that once relied on their local bank to raise money are now turning to global stock and bond markets. As a result, European executives are more exposed to unwanted takeovers if their companies' shares sink.
But the upshot is a jarring blend of new-age buccaneering and more old-fashioned national protectionism.
The tension between these impulses is particularly vivid in European banking, which has always been a politically sensitive industry.
The most recent such evidence came this weekend, when four of Italy's biggest banks announced two separate mergers. Unicredito Italiano, itself the product of a smaller merger two years ago, said it would acquire Banca Commerciale Italiana for $16 billion in stock. San Paulo-IMI, Italy's biggest banking group, said it would buy Banca di Roma for $9.7 billion in stock.
But the biggest brawl is here in Paris, where bankers and political leaders had become increasingly alarmed by the merger mania under way from Switzerland to Spain.
At a black-tie dinner hosted by France's top bank executives last December, France's Finance Minister warned the bankers they were in danger of being left behind.
"Too often in the past, infighting in France has prevailed against preparation for the future," said Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the Finance Minister. "Today, the following question is posed: How do you -- how do we -- wish to manage these indispensable reforms?"
The message was clear: the banks had to pull together or risk being brushed aside. Indeed, the three biggest had already been sounding each other out for more than a year. Michel Pebereau, the chairman of Banque Nationale de Paris, known universally by its initials B.N.P., had fruitlessly courted Societe Generale. Banque Paribas, which focuses on investment and corporate banking, had repeatedly insisted that it did not want to merge with an ordinary commercial bank.
"In France, we were very late in restructuring our banking industry," said Laurent Treca, a board member of B.N.P. "Many of the things taking place here had already occurred elsewhere in Europe -- in Italy, in Spain, in Belgium. But in France, there were no major moves on French banks."
Meanwhile, the Government was desperately trying to privatize the deeply troubled state-owned bank, Credit Lyonnais. Having bailed out the Government-owned bank from billions of francs worth of bad loans in everything from French real estate to a Hollywood studio, officials were (and still are) trying to sell off the sanitized institution and its new management.
But the French Government made it clear it did not want its big banks in foreign hands. Bidding rules for Credit Lyonnais blocked any institution from acquiring more than 10 percent, and industry executives argue that French regulators would have simply blocked foreigners from taking over one of the three big healthy banks.
Foreign rivals were certainly interested. Rolf-Ernst Breuer, chairman of Deutsche Bank in Frankfort repeatedly told analysts and investors that he wanted to form an alliance with a French bank. He even proposed buying a significant stake in Credit Lyonnais.
Though French regulators never explicitly blocked Deutsche Bank, Mr. Breuer concluded that he could never make an acceptable deal. Last month, he announced that Deutsche Bank would simply build its own skeleton structure of 10 bank branches in France.
But French banks were also under pressure from one of France's most influential financial figures, Claude Bebear, chairman of the French insurance conglomerate AXA. AXA holds about 6 percent of B.N.P.'s shares and 7 percent of Paribas's. AXA executives sit on both boards.
Mr. Bebear, who had built AXA into a global giant by acquiring companies as varied as the Equitable Group in the United States and Union Assurances de Paris, had been chafing for a merger for a long time.
"What he thinks is that French banks are too small and not profitable enough," said Christophe Dufraux, a spokesman for AXA. "If French banks want to be among the top players -- the way we did it in insurance -- they needed to change."
Industry experts say Mr. Bebear shook things up last October, when he publicly criticized Banque Paribas for failing to convince investors of the wisdom of its strategy. Though the comments were measured, French banking executives immediately interpreted them as a wake-up call for Paribas.
Andre Levy-Lang, chairman of Paribas, continued to insist throughout last fall that he still did not want to merge with a retail bank. But he apparently changed his views in private, and opened up talks with Societe Generale.
When Paribas and Societe Generale announced their plan in early February for a $16 billion merger, French Government officials were ecstatic. Mr. Strauss-Kahn called the merger "a direct response" to his wishes and said it would lead to "a strong and dynamic French financial sector."
Mr. Pebereau said very little, but hired Goldman, Sachs & Company as his investment banker to map out a response. He got some help from investors, who disliked the proposed merger and pushed down the value of both Paribas and Societe Generale in the stock market.
On March 9, B.N.P. announced an unsolicited tender offer for all the stock in both of its rivals. Mr. Pebereau, whose move stunned Government officials, was also quick to wave the French tricolor.
"Our country is capable of dominating this sector on a global scale," he said. "Through this alliance, we do not risk losing personality and culture."
 Mr. Bebear of AXA publicly sided with Banque Nationale de Paris last week. But analysts say it is far from clear that B.N.P. will prevail. The offer must still clear several hurdles with French regulators, and the target banks may well fire back with a higher offer of their own.
Regardless of who wins, the deeper question is whether France and indeed other European countries become more open to cross-border mergers.
Mr. Breuer, of Deutsche Bank, politely announced in Frankfurt last week that he would stay out of the fight unless he was invited in.
"What is happening in front of our eyes in France right now is very French," he said at a news conference to discuss his own company's results last week. "The nature of the process does not allow a foreign bank to get involved."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chart: "Border Barriers"
Despite all the attention on eliminating economic barriers within a unifying Europe, cross-border deals between European companies are still rare, blocked by age-old nationalistic sentiments.
 
FRANCE
Banque Nationale de Paris Paribas Societe General
In bidding to consolidate its two French rivals under its own umbrella, Banque Nationale said they should all stay in French hands.
 
ITALY
Olivetti
Telecom Italia
Olivetti justified its hostile bid for Italy's national telephone company on the grounds of national pride.
 
SWITZERLAND
UBS Swiss Banking Corporation
Despite extensive interests abroad, the two Swiss banks found it easier to merge with each other than seek alliances elsewhere.
 
GERMANY/FRANCE
Hoechst
Rhone-Poulenc
The exception that could prove the rule. This cross-border pharmaceutical deal was so carefully balanced to avoid offending either company that it may fall apart before it can be completed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (94%); LVMH (BIT) (94%); BNP (PAR) (92%); BNP (BIT) (92%); AHOE (FRA) (82%); AH (BIT) (82%); AH (AMS) (82%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (94%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (82%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); ITALY (96%); FRANCE (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (94%); BNP PARIBAS SA (92%); KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (82%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); RHONE-POULENC OF FRANCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RHONE-POULENC OF FRANCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (98%); ITALY (96%); FRANCE (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TAKEOVERS (93%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); CURRENCIES (53%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L FRANCOIS PINAULT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



516 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
New York blazes a trail on how to handle local-phone access.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
THIS is a story of triumph by a government regulator, a triumph so unusual that every side praises the agency -- the New York State Public Service Commission -- and points to its procedures as an enviable model for states nationwide.
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 promised consumers the benefit of competition. Subject to rules that would be written by the Federal Communications Commission and negotiations with state regulators, the legislation would require local Bell companies to rent their wires, switches and phone services to competitors like AT&T, MCI Worldcom and Sprint so that they could enter the market for local service. In return, the Bell companies would be permitted to offer long-distance service. The F.C.C. issued rules, but many were set aside by the courts, leaving the states to negotiate in a legal vacuum. 
 In New York, negotiations bogged down as Bell Atlantic declared its systems ready to accommodate competition and rivals disagreed. But in the last 18 months, the commission has broken the logjam. It has won praise for putting politics on hold, overseeing a technically sophisticated staff and, most novel, sending squabbling lawyers to the sideline while the engineers and other technicians took over the task of solving problems.
The commission's basic challenge was to set rules by which customers could switch their local service from Bell Atlantic to, say, AT&T purely by having AT&T's computers talk to Bell Atlantic's. The goal was to cut as many people as possible out of the process to reduce mistakes and eliminate opportunities for Bell Atlantic to sabotage efforts by competitors to lure away customers.
The first key decision the commission took was to set up a "collaborative" process in the fall of 1997 for resolving technical disputes. Technicians from all sides were called to testify before administrative law judges. The lawyers were pushed aside. The process worked because technicians, confronted by claims that their systems did not work, wrote better software rather than engage in legal histrionics.
Next, the commission struck a clever deal in April with Bell Atlantic that guaranteed the company would relinquish its choke hold over local service no matter how the Supreme Court settled challenges to the Telecommunications Act. The commission in turn agreed to support Bell Atlantic's Federal application to enter long-distance service if Bell Atlantic could meet its commitments, including passing a test of its support systems. The test would be designed and evaluated by a third party, KPMG.
Under the test, Bell Atlantic's computer systems had to perform hundreds of tasks involved in switching customers to another phone company. For example, competitors would need to tap Bell Atlantic records to find out what services a customer used. Until the test began, Bell Atlantic contended that its software was up to the task. But now, seven months into a test that was supposed to take only about six weeks, Bell Atlantic's systems have failed more than 40 times. The problem, Stephen Minnig, a senior manager at KPMG said, "reflects the complexity of the task -- a complexity that no one anticipated."
Besides identifying glitches, the test has also "eliminated the finger-pointing, basing decisions on evidence and not paper debates," said Harry Davidow of AT&T. Mr. Davidow, chief regulatory counsel for AT&T in New York, said the test also turned Bell Atlantic's incentives upside down. "It no longer made sense for them to try to win by papering over their system deficiencies in reports to the commission. Now their only recourse was to fix their systems to the satisfaction of KPMG."
Despite spending $15 million so far on the test, Bell Atlantic has not yet fixed dozens of glitches KPMG identified. Some rivals worry that the commission will declare victory for Bell Atlantic before every one is resolved or before Bell Atlantic has satisfied other conditions set out in the Telecommunications Act that are not included in the KPMG test.
Though Bell Atlantic and its competitors remain deeply suspicious of each other, none has criticized the commission. MCI Worldcom cited the commission's record as one reason it has announced plans for aggressive marketing of local phone service in the state. And Mr. Minnig said KPMG had been under "no pressure except to do the test right." John Rubino of the commission staff dismisses fears that the agency will change course, vowing that the KPMG test will not be over until all the glitches are "appropriately resolved."
If so, Bell Atlantic will pass the test not because it pressured the commission, its staff or KPMG, but because it will have painstakingly repaired every glitch. That may not happen this month or next. But approval will almost certainly come soon, making Bell Atlantic the first Bell company into the long-distance market.
Paul Crotty, regional president of Bell Atlantic, said that the "end result will be customers who know that there has been an exhaustive process that will lead to a bulletproof conclusion that the market is irreversibly open to competition."
Regulators are not used to such praise from those they regulate. No wonder regulators in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas are rushing to adopt the New York model.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 104 TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996 (88%); 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS); BELL ATLANTIC CORP AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS); BELL ATLANTIC CORP NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (86%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); TESTIMONY (68%); JUDGES (68%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



517 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Disney's Studio Chief Says Competitors May Quit Animation Business

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Peter Schneider, president of Walt Disney Studios, said yesterday that he expected some movie studios that had recently entered the field of animation to leave it within the next few years because of rising costs.
Disney has had to increase the fees its pays animators as rival studios like Dreamworks SKG and Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Brothers ramp up their production of animated films and compete for the same talent pool, Mr. Schneider said at the Variety/Schroders Big Picture Media Conference in New York. 
 "Lots of studios came into the business over the last five years because they thought it was very profitable," he said. "We'll see people go out of the business in the next two to three years as the economics no longer justify it."
Disney, though, has been able to make its animated films profitable because of the numerous revenue streams it is able to generate by putting its movies on video, television and other outlets, he said.
Disney, like several other studios, has cut back on the number of movies it releases each year to reduce production and marketing costs.
The cutbacks have led to some speculation that theater owners, many of whom are building new theaters with 20 or more screens, could face a shortage of movies to fill those screens.
Still, the cutbacks are essential to improving the financial health of individual films and can work to the benefit of theaters, said Tom Rothman, president of the News Corporation's 20th Century Fox film production division.
"There are too many movies on any one weekend for the movies to get a chance," he said. "It's become a turnstile business. It's getting harder and harder for distinctive movies to take time to build an audience."
Studios have been distributing more of their films in "wide" releases, opening them on 2,000 to 3,000 screens at once. That means films generate a large part of their sales in the early weeks of the run and decline quickly as they remain in theaters. That hurts theater owners who get a larger split of the revenue when a film plays a long run.
Cutting back on the number of movies that studios release should help theater owners keep individual films on their screens longer, Mr. Rothman said.
Animators who create two-dimensional characters like those in the shows "South Park" and "Rugrats" routinely use computer graphics to replicate the hundreds of frames needed to make a character move. In animated films like "Antz" from Dreamworks SKG, the three-dimensional quality is added through the costly, time-consuming process of adding realistic lighting and backgrounds by computer. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (93%); TWX (NYSE) (72%); NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); DIS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO; TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (93%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (93%); TIME WARNER INC (72%); NEWS CORP (66%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO; TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ANIMATED FILMS; FINANCES ANIMATION (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, PETER; ROTHMAN, TOM ANN LIVERMORE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



518 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Revlon Shares Soaring On Takeover Speculation
Shares of Revlon surged $5.1875, or 30.4 percent, to $22.25, on speculation that a buyer may soon step in and rescue the cosmetics giant from its huge debt and weak performance lately in the powder and perfume business.
Revlon stock has risen 54 percent over the last two days on heavy volume. Investors are reacting to growing speculation that Revlon and the billionaire Ronald O. Perelman, who controls 83 percent of its shares, may be near a deal to sell the struggling company, which makes Revlon, Colorstay and Almay cosmetics, to a larger consumer-products concern. The two names mentioned most often by bankers and analysts as potential buyers are Unilever of the Netherlands and Procter & Gamble in Cincinnati. Market Place. Page C12.
 
F.A.A. Grounds Kiwi International
A day after Kiwi International Airlines thought it had won a reprieve from a Government-imposed death sentence, the Federal Aviation Administration grounded the carrier, saying that it was unsafe to fly. B1. 

In Yugoslavia, a Shattered Economy
With the Yugoslav economy in tatters and trade limited since international economic sanctions were imposed in 1992, little more economic harm is expected from air strikes by the United States and its NATO allies. C4.
 
Orders for Durable Goods Decline
Factory orders for big-ticket goods posted the largest decline in more than seven years in February, a sign that an expected recovery in manufacturing could be a few months away, the Commerce Department said. C5.
 
More I.M.F. Aid Seen for Indonesia
The International Monetary Fund is likely to approve more financial aid to Indonesia at a board meeting in Washington today, a senior official said in Hong Kong. C4.
 
British Phone Venture May Be Sold
Cable and Wireless and the Mediaone Group want to sell One 2 One, a British mobile-phone venture worth $13.1 billion, an investment banker advising on the sale said. Options could also include an initial public offering. C12.
 
In Pact, OPEC Mixes Oil and Politics
After a decade of internecine fighting over which country should produce how much oil, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries reached a production-cutting accord that was underpinned by the strength of new political alliances. News Analysis. C4.
 
Technology Rally Lifts Nasdaq
Technology stocks caught fire in the last 90 minutes of trading, lifting the Nasdaq composite index 42.44 points, or 1.83 percent, to 2,365.28. The late rally did little, however, for blue-chip stocks as the Dow Jones industrial average slipped 4.99 points, to 9,666.84, receding further from the 10,000 mark it flirted with last week. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.45 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 1,268.59. In the bond market, the yield on the 30-year Treasury fell to 5.53 percent, from 5.54 percent. C11.
 
Ameritech Buys 20% of Bell Canada
Ameritech, the phone company set to be acquired by SBC Communications, said that it would buy a 20 percent stake in Canada's leading carrier, Bell Canada, for $3.4 billion to take advantage of deregulation. Bell Canada plans to use the proceeds to invest in electronic commerce, satellite services and other fast-growing businesses. C23.
 
Expansion in Interactive Marketing
Three giant advertising agency companies -- the Interpublic Group, Grey Advertising and Leo Burnett -- are expanding operations in interactive marketing and media services. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C10.
 
Rare Praise for a State Regulator
Procedures used by the New York State Public Service Commission to open the local phone market to competition have won praise and could become a model for other states. Michael M. Weinstein: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,666.84.84, down 4.99
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.53%, down 0.01
The Dollar -- 117.89 yen, down 0.11
 
Graphs track the share price of Revlon and the daily closes of Nasdaq, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: REV (NYSE) (92%); UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (56%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: REVLON INC (92%); KIWI INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES INC (56%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); HONG KONG (79%); OHIO, USA (56%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COSMETICS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BONDS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); AIRLINES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); APPROVALS (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); 

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



519 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Disaster Bill Despite Threat Of a Veto

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24

 BODY:
Against the backdrop of a veto threat by President Clinton, members of the House tonight approved a $1.3 billion emergency spending bill that included nearly $1 billion in relief to Central American countries ravaged by a hurricane and scaled back an array of Government programs to pay for the expenditures.
The final minutes of the vote, during which several Republicans who had voted against the bill changed their positions to insure its passage by a narrow margin, underscored the slightness of the Republican advantage in the House and the difficulty that party leaders may face in passing legislation. 
 The final tally was 220 to 211. Only 10 Democrats joined Republicans to support the bill, while only 11 Republicans joined Democrats to oppose it. On Tuesday, the Senate approved a disaster bill that has also drawn White House opposition.
The hours of debate over the House bill, the first spending measure taken up by the House this year, foreshadowed what are certain to be even more bitter disputes when the House turns its full attention toward the budget for the next fiscal year.
Democrats criticized the cuts in the bill as unnecessary and dangerous -- particularly a $648 million reduction in "callable capital," or money set aside to guarantee loans by international development banks, and a $150 million decrease in money for the disposal of weapons-grade uranium and plutonium in Russia.
Republicans countered that finding trims was the only way to pay for the emergency spending while keeping lawmakers' fingers out of the Federal surplus and staying within budget caps mandated by Congress in 1997.
"If anyone thinks they have heartburn over this small number of offsets, just wait until we bring the fiscal year 2000 budget to the floor," Representative C. W. Bill Young of Florida, the Republican chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said near the start of what turned into a six-hour debate.
The reduction in callable capital in particular drew protest from the Clinton Administration. In a letter to Mr. Young made public today, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said the measure "could have negative consequences beyond the current budgetary horizon for the developing world and our economy" and would probably insure a Presidential veto.
On Tuesday night, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a similar emergency spending bill that authorized $500 million more than the House bill called for. The two bills, which concern supplemental spending for the current fiscal year, will now proceed to conference, where lawmakers will try to iron out differences between them.
But the President might veto the result. Administration officials object to several provisions in the bills, including cuts in money to beef up security around American embassies and to dispose of uranium and plutonium in Russia.
House Democrats expressed particular alarm about the latter proposal, saying it jeopardized the security of the United States. Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, called it "the most egregious and reckless of the recommendations," but an amendment Mr. Obey offered that nullified this and three other cuts in the Republican bill was defeated.
The wrangling over the bill and the final vote made clear the many factions dividing Congress. Several conservative Republicans, for example, called for even more spending reductions because the cuts proposed by the bill fell about $200 million short of its expenditures.
Republicans contended that even though emergency spending did not require concordant cuts, a failure to offset expenditures would affect the budget surplus, which they said needed to be saved for Social Security.
Democrats countered that Republicans were posturing, because the cuts their bill proposed, which essentially affected money that had been pledged but not spent, would do nothing to protect anything.
In addition to $956 million in hurricane relief, the House bill includes $100 million in economic and military assistance to Jordan and nearly $106 million to support loan guarantees to farmers. Several Democrats, including Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, rose to complain that the aid to farmers was too little, too late.
The House bill did not include one item that senators added to their version, a provision that would allocate $40 million to families of the 20 people killed in Italy last year when a Marine jet sliced the cable of a ski gondola.
When the time for voting on the House bill had initially expired, it did not have enough votes to pass. The time was then extended, and in the next few hectic minutes, enough lawmakers voted or changed their votes to tilt the tally.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); GUATEMALA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; GUATEMALA; HONDURAS; EL SALVADOR; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); GUATEMALA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE MITCH; VETOES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (93%); VETO (91%); HURRICANES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WEATHER (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRUNI, FRANK BILL CLINTON (88%); DAVE OBEY (58%); C W BILL YOUNG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



520 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Protests in Police Killing of Diallo Grow Larger, and More Diverse

BYLINE: By KATHERINE E. FINKELSTEIN 

 BODY:
The last time Sidney Socolar, 75, a retired biophysics professor, got himself arrested was in the mid-1980's, when he sat outside Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato's office to protest America's involvement in El Salvador's civil war.
But yesterday, he stood with his 82-year-old wife in a crush of demonstrators outside 1 Police Plaza, awaiting the handcuffs. "I am enraged about our Mayor's attitude toward civil liberties," he said. 
 Blocking the door was a group of 17 elderly white women, including Carolyn Goodman, 83, whose son, Andrew, a civil rights worker, was murdered in Mississippi in 1964. Ms. Goodman was escorted into Police Headquarters to be handcuffed.
She was part of the largest and most diverse group to be arrested in the 12 days of protests against the police shooting of Amadou Diallo. Among the 212 people taken into custody yesterday were 126 members of Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, including several rabbis, and representatives of three labor unions.
So many people were arrested that the police had to book the protesters in station houses in three different precincts in Manhattan.
The protesters had to wait behind police barricades and be shepherded inside, 30 at a time. Police officers told them through megaphones that they would be arrested.
The crowd chanted, sang psalms in Hebrew and held up signs that read "Stop the Death Squads" and "Arrest Giuliani." Before being led inside, Mr. Socolar described the day as a "welcome resumption" of the unity between blacks and Jews.
The Rev. Al Sharpton, whose political advocacy group National Action Network has been organizing the daily protests since March 9, proudly noted the diversity of the rally as he stood in the midst of supporters. "It robs the Mayor of his argument that we're being divisive," he said. "We've got a lot more diversity here than the Police Department has."
He renewed his call for the arrest of the four police officers from the Street Crime Unit who killed Mr. Diallo, an immigrant from Guinea, on Feb. 4. Mr. Diallo was unarmed. A grand jury in the Bronx finished hearing testimony in the case yesterday.
Another demonstrator, Dennis Rivera, the president of Local 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union, which has 150,000 members, said that he came to protest the fact that the Police Department does not reflect the city's racial mix.
When asked whether he agreed with Public Advocate Mark Green that Police Commissioner Howard Safir should resign, Mr. Rivera said, "I think he demonstrated an awesome lack of sensitivity, and most likely we need a change of leadership."
He was arrested along with several other labor leaders, including Lee Saunders, the trustee in charge of District Council 37, an umbrella group representing 120,000 city workers; James H. Butler, the president of Local 420 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, and Charles Ensley, the president of Local 371, which represents 15,000 social workers.
During the protest, Mr. Safir was in the auditorium at 1 Police Plaza conducting a ceremony to announce the promotion of 64 police officers.
Speaking about the need to communicate effectively and be courteous, even when making arrests, he said: "There's also nothing wrong occasionally saying, 'I am sorry for inconveniencing you.' That's a decent thing to do."
Yesterday's arrests brought the total to 574 for the daily rallies. Among those expected to be arrested today are the Rev. Floyd H. Flake, the former Queens Congressman who has been a supporter of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, and the actress Susan Sarandon, organizers said.
Some members of the Police Department are planning to hold their own rally in front of the Manhattan Municipal Building today. Led by James Higgins, a police union official planning to run for its presidency in May, the demonstration is to begin at the Municipal Building around 11 A.M., with participants then marching to 1 Police Plaza.
In a flier posted around Police Headquarters, Mr. Higgins said that a rally was necessary because "a number of political opportunists have surfaced to prejudge and crucify cops, all cops."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In protests at 1 Police Plaza against the police shooting of Amadou Diallo, 212 people were arrested yesterday. Many had to be taken by van to other station houses to be booked. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times; G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EL SALVADOR (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE DEPARTMENT (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); EL SALVADOR (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BLACKS ARRESTS (92%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MURDER (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); RIOTS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); RELIGION (67%); GRAND JURY (65%); 

PERSON: FINKELSTEIN, KATHERINE E; DIALLO, AMADOU AL SHARPTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



521 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
I.M.F. Expected to Offer More Aid to Indonesia

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 24

 BODY:
A senior official of the International Monetary Fund said here today that he expected the fund to approve more financial aid to Indonesia in a board meeting in Washington on Thursday.
Hubert Neiss, the fund's Asia Pacific director, said, "the I.M.F. will propose that the existing commitments be increased." He said such an increase required the board's approval, but added, "I would expect that the board will agree." 
 Indonesia's chief economics official, Ginandjar Kartasasmita, had asked for an extra $1 billion in aid in a meeting last month with the fund's managing director, Michel Camdessus.
Mr. Neiss would not say how large the increase would be. But last year, the fund approved an additional $1 billion in aid to Indonesia, raising its total commitment to $11.2 billion. All told, Jakarta is receiving a $43 billion rescue package from the fund and other international aid groups.
The fund has already disbursed $8.8 billion, and analysts said the Indonesian Government was worried that unless the I.M.F. agreed to pledge more, the country might have trouble soliciting aid from other sources.
The fund's move to release more aid is both an acknowledgment of the steps Indonesia has taken to overhaul its shattered economy and a sign of how far it still must go to join the ranks of the recovering in Asia.
Mr. Neiss said Indonesia needed the extra help because, unlike South Korea or Thailand, it was not yet attracting private capital. Analysts said foreign investors were generally steering clear of Indonesia as it made a trouble-prone transition from the Suharto era to a more democratic system.
Still, Mr. Neiss praised Indonesia for taking steps to clean up its ruined banking system. On March 13, the Government of President B. J. Habibie closed 38 banks, took over 7 and indicated it would bail out 9 others.
The move came after a sudden two-week postponement that had provoked new cries of cronyism from Government critics. The critics said that politically connected bankers had pressured Mr. Habibie to order the delay so that they could raise capital and save their banks from closure.
Mr. Neiss said that while he regretted the delay, "I prefer postponement to things going wrong." He added: "No bank owner in any country would like to have his bank closed. They will fight tooth and nail to keep it open."
Mr. Neiss made his remarks to reporters at an investment conference in Hong Kong sponsored by Credit Suisse First Boston. Earlier in the day, he sparred with a leading critic of the fund: Jeffrey D. Sachs, a Harvard economist, who has accused the fund of aggravating the Asian crisis.
Professor Sachs renewed those criticisms today, saying that the fund's insistence on high interest rates and stable currencies had deepened investor panic and capital flight in Thailand and South Korea.
Mr. Neiss replied that the fund's policies calmed South Korea when it was hit by a wave of capital outflows in late 1997. He also said the fund should not be blamed for the region's collapse. Rather, he said, the Governments did not respond quickly enough to the unfolding crisis.
In general, though, Mr. Neiss struck a mostly optimistic note. He predicted that most Asian economies would return to growth in the second half of 1999. "When we say the worst is over, we are simply stating the facts," he said. "The larger task of getting the recovery off the ground is still before us." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRENDS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: NEISS, HUBERT; LANDLER, MARK HUBERT NEISS (93%); JEFFREY D SACHS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



522 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: IN MOSCOW;
Russian Anger at U.S. Tempered by Need for Cash

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 24

 BODY:
Stung by NATO's decision to carry out air strikes against Yugoslavia, Russia tonight suspended cooperation with the Western alliance and denounced the attack as an act of brazen aggression.
Behind the words, however, was a tempering factor: Russia still needs billions of dollars in Western loans. 
 That need was underscored by Russia's announcement tonight that Michel Camdessus, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, would arrive in Moscow this weekend for more talks. A senior American official said today that the visit was occurring with the encouragement of the United States.
Caught between the imperatives of its pro-Serbian policy and its pressing economic needs, Russia did its best today to head off a NATO attack. In a telephone conversation, President Boris N. Yeltsin urged President Clinton not to go through with the air strikes and made an impassioned television address carrying the same message.
"I am appealing to the whole world," Mr. Yeltsin said. "I am appealing to people who survived the war, to those who experienced the bombings, their children, to all political figures. As long as there remain some minutes, let's persuade Bill Clinton not to take this tragic, dramatic step."
Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, for his part, telephoned the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, to encourage him to reach an accommodation on the Kosovo issue.
Washington's and Belgrade's rebuffs to the Kremlin appeals were taken here as a powerful blow to Russian pride. "Our American partners were not the only ones who wiped their feet on us," said Vladimir P. Lukin, the chairman of the Parliament's committee on foreign affairs. "Unfortunately, our Eastern European partners did so as well."
The steps announced by Mr. Yeltsin tonight were, in part, an effort to salvage a measure of respect. Protesting NATO's attack, Mr. Yeltsin recalled Russia's envoy to NATO, Lieut. Gen. Viktor Zavarzin. He also suspended Russian participation in the alliance's cooperative military exercises, known as "Partnership for Peace."
Those steps, however, were largely symbolic. General Zavarzin has devoted much of his energy not to strengthening ties with the alliance, but to fighting a losing battle against its expansion. And Russia's cooperation with the "Partnership for Peace" program has been very modest, partly for budgetary reasons.
Mr. Yeltsin also said somewhat ominously that Russia reserved the right to take "appropriate measures," including military steps to safeguard its security.
His vague allusion led to speculation among Russian hard-liners that the military might move nuclear weapons back into Belarus, where they would be closer to NATO nations. But centrist politicians assailed the suggestion as wildly impractical, noting that it would backfire by fanning support for a further enlargement of the alliance.
"What does the deployment of nuclear weapons in Belarus, outside the borders of Russia, have to do with this?" former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin said derisively. "We must not end up in isolation."
What Mr. Yeltsin did not say tonight was as important as what he did say. He did not, for example, threaten to shelve the Start-2 treaty, though its approval will almost certainly now be delayed in the Communist-led Parliament.
Nor did he promise to send military aid to Yugoslavia, though a late-night television call-in show reported that would-be volunteers were flooding nationalist organizations with offers to fight with the Serbs.
Even after Mr. Primakov canceled his trip to to the United States on Tuesday while he was already en route, Yevgeny Adamov, Russia's Atomic Energy Minister, stayed in Washington. He had arrived early to complete talks on the sale of uranium from Russian nuclear warheads -- an accord worth billions of dollars to Russia.
There are several reasons why Russian officials take umbrage at the bombing, beyond their ties with Serbia, including resentment of America's superpower status and concern about NATO's setting a precedent for intervention in internal ethnic strife of the sort that occurred in Chechnya.
But Russia's embrace of the Milosevic regime has not gone without criticism here. Mr. Primakov himself received something less than a hero's welcome after the dramatic U-turn in the sky that brought him back to Moscow. Critics complained he had put Yugoslavia's interest ahead of Russia's while others fretted that Moscow's influence had dwindled to a point that not even Belgrade was afraid of Russia.
Certainly, there were many politicians who rushed to support Mr. Primakov's decision to turn his plane around. Communist lawmakers, an increasingly important part of his power base, backed Mr. Primakov.
While most of Russia's leaders rallied around the flag, the very public dissent among Russia's political elite was noteworthy, raising questions at home about Mr. Primakov's stewardship of foreign affairs.
Grigory Yavlinsky, the leader of the liberal Yabloko party, said the Prime Minister should have gone to Washington to express his concerns about a NATO strike. Russian diplomacy toward Belgrade, he continued, was marked by weakness.
"There has been no plan," he said. "Only a protesting attitude, which is the most counter-productive in international affairs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE ATTACKERS, AND THEIR TARGETS -- A Tomahawk missile being launched yesterday from the U.S. Navy cruiser the Philippine Sea, in the Adriatic. (U.S. Navy via Agence France-Presse); Near Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, a Yugoslav Army barracks burned. (Srdjan Ilic/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BELARUS (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (59%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (73%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); US NAVY (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); US NAVY (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BELARUS (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); PACIFIC OCEAN (59%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WAR & CONFLICT (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CAMDESSUS, MICHEL BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



523 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: George Benson, 91, A College Founder And Nixon Official

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
George C. S. Benson, an author of books on American politics and government who in 1946 was the founding president of what is now Claremont McKenna College, died on Monday at the Pilgrim Place nursing home in Claremont, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Claremont.
Mr. Benson, who was also a Pentagon official in the Nixon Administration, led the college through years in which the prestige of the small liberal arts school grew, particularly in economics and government. Formerly Claremont Men's College, it became Claremont McKenna College in 1981. 
 The college, which now has more than 1,000 students, is part of the cluster of colleges in the city of Claremont, 35 miles east of downtown Los Angeles. The other colleges are Harvey Mudd, Pitzer, Pomona, Scripps, the Claremont Graduate School and the Graduate Institute of Applied Life Sciences.
Mr. Benson advocated the idea of such academic clustering and played a leading role in the founding of Harvey Mudd College and Pitzer College as well as bringing the Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden to Claremont.
George Charles Sumner Benson was born on Jan. 16, 1908. He grew up in New York, where his father was an Episcopal priest.
Mr. Benson graduated from Pomona College, which was founded in 1887 by his grandfather Charles Burt Sumner, and received a master's degree from the University of Illinois and a doctorate in government from Harvard University.
He was research director of the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in the Eisenhower Administration. In 1969, Mr. Benson resigned as president of Claremont to become Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for reserve affairs in the Nixon Administration.
Returning to Claremont in 1972 as president emeritus, Mr. Benson continued to write and publish. He was the author of eight books on American government and politics including "The New Centralization," published in 1941. His other books included a trilogy on ethics in American political life published after he returned to Claremont.
As chairman of the Pentagon's advisory committee on the Reserve Officers Training Corps, Mr. Benson spoke out vigorously in defense of the R.O.T.C. when it came under attack by college protesters during the Vietnam War.
He is survived by two sons, Brien and Sumner, both of McLean, Va., and a stepson, Jack Lowe of Lakewood, Colo. Mr. Benson's first wife, Mabel Gibberd Benson, died in 1983. His second wife, Katherine Corbett Lowe Benson, died on March 1.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George C. S. Benson (Claremont McKenna College)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); ETHICS (64%); STEPPARENTS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: BENSON, GEORGE C S; HONAN, WILLIAM H CHARLES BURT SUMNER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



524 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: THE WHITE HOUSE;
President's Reasons: Moral Revulsion and Weight of U.S. Interests

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24

 BODY:
President Clinton said tonight that his decision to authorize military strikes against Serbia was derived from moral revulsion at the killing in Kosovo and a calculated assessment of American interests in the Balkans.
He said that despite the risks to American and allied forces, he was compelled to act now because the costs would only increase if he failed to move. "I am convinced that the dangers of acting are far outweighed by the dangers of not acting, dangers to defenseless people and to our national interests," Mr. Clinton said in his televised address from the Oval Office. 
 He said that he had been reluctant to commit United States forces to the Balkan conflict and that he had acted only when he was certain that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia would respond to nothing less than a forceful military action that struck at the heart of his machinery of oppression.
Mr. Clinton, in a didactic 13-minute address, said the NATO attacks on Serb targets were intended to avert a humanitarian disaster and to serve American geopolitical interests. He conjured images of Balkan concentration camps and "genocide in the heart of Europe" that offend American moral sensibilities and threaten American values and interests.
"If we and our allies were to allow this war to continue with no response, President Milosevic would read our hesitation as a license to kill," Mr. Clinton said.
He added that American and NATO credibility were at stake and even alluded to an American economic interest in a stable and prosperous Europe.
Mr. Clinton gave the American people a selective lesson in history and geography, using colorful maps to locate Kosovo and to dramatize its historical role as the powder keg of Europe.
Conflict in Kosovo, a province of Serbia, will not be contained in its borders, Mr. Clinton warned.
"Let a fire burn here in this area," the President said, "and the flames will spread. Eventually key U.S. allies could be drawn into a wider conflict, or we would be forced to confront later, only at far greater risk and greater cost."
Mr. Clinton reviewed the tragic history of the former Yugoslavia after the country spun apart in 1991. He said the West should not repeat the mistakes that it made in Bosnia from 1992 to 1995, allowing a bloodthirsty campaign of "ethnic cleansing" to rage for almost three years without outside intervention.
Mr. Clinton, as a Presidential candidate in 1992, criticized President George Bush for failing to act in Bosnia. But once in office, Mr. Clinton did not approve a military response to Serbian slaughter of Bosnian Muslims until 1995.
Mr. Milosevic only sat down at the peace table after American-led NATO forces had delivered punishing attacks on his forces in Bosnia.
"We must apply the same lessons in Kosovo before what happens in Bosnia happens there, too," Mr. Clinton said.
"All the ingredients for a major war are there, ancient grievances, struggling democracies and, in the center of it all, a dictator in Serbia who has done nothing since the cold war ended but start new wars and pour gasoline on the flames of ethnic and religious division," he warned.
The President glossed over important differences between Bosnia and Kosovo. Bosnia was an independent republic with a mixed Muslim and Serbian population that invited Western intervention to halt Mr. Milosevic's effort to drive out the Muslims. Kosovo, with a large ethnic Albanian majority, was stripped of its autonomy but has remained part of Serbia.
The Administration supports autonomy, but not independence, for Kosovo. But Mr. Clinton sowed confusion when he said, "Right now our firmness is the only hope the people of Kosovo have to be able to live in their own country without having to fear for their own lives."
A White House official explained that Mr. Clinton was referring not to an independent Kosovo, but to the right of Kosovars of Albanian descent to live without fear as citizens of Serbia.
Mr. Milosevic -- and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, who angrily denounced the air strikes -- contend that the United States and its allies are intervening in a civil war against the wishes of a sovereign state, Serbia.
Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, said this evening that Mr. Clinton had been presented with a group of unpalatable choices like doing nothing and introducing American ground troops into Kosovo. The alternative that he chose, a limited air campaign, carries significant risks and only modest prospects of success, but is better than all the other choices, Mr. Berger said.
Neither Mr. Berger nor the President directly addressed the question of what guideposts they had set for measuring the success of the operation or what NATO and the United States would do if the air raids did not halt Mr. Milosevic's campaign.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, said Mr. Clinton had been compelled to act because American and NATO threats had begun to ring hollow after months of inaction.
"Once you threaten," Mr. Lieberman said in an interview, "and the person you're threatening repeatedly does exactly what you've told him not to do, then you'd better act on your threat or you will have dissipated your own strength. Nobody, not just in the Balkans, but around the world, will take you seriously. That's the situation we were in."
Mr. Clinton has spoken at length on Kosovo several times in the last five days. In addition to the strategic and humanitarian arguments that he made tonight, he suggested that America had a number of other interests in peace in the Balkans.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said tonight in an interview that he supported Mr. Clinton's decision for the air assault. But he tempered his support with harsh criticism of the President's record on the Balkans and said Mr. Clinton's failure to back up previous threats with action had undermined the credibility of the United States and NATO.
"I've never heard a President do what he did a couple weeks ago," Mr. McCain said. "He allowed two deadlines to pass when he said there would be action, unless deadlines were met. There is a problem with credibility there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The President in the Oval Office last night. In explaining the attack, he cited "dangers to defenseless people and to our national interests." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES US PRESIDENTS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POLITICS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); GENOCIDE (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



525 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS;
In the President's Words: 'We Act to Prevent a Wider War'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the speech by President Clinton last night on Kosovo, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription company:
My fellow Americans, today our armed forces joined our NATO allies in air strikes against Serbian forces responsible for the brutality in Kosovo. We have acted with resolve for several reasons. 
 We act to protect thousands of innocent people in Kosovo from a mounting military offensive. We act to prevent a wider war, to defuse a powder keg at the heart of Europe that has exploded twice before in this century with catastrophic results. We act to stand united with our allies for peace. By acting now, we are upholding our values, protecting our interests and advancing the cause of peace.
Tonight I want to speak with you about the tragedy in Kosovo and why it matters to America that we work with our allies to end it.
First, let me explain what it is we are responding to. Kosovo is a province of Serbia, in the middle of southeastern Europe, about 160 miles east of Italy -- that's less than the distance between Washington and New York -- and only about 70 miles north of Greece. Its people are mostly ethnic Albanian and mostly Muslim.
In 1989, Serbia's leader, Slobodan Milosevic, the same leader who started the wars in Bosnia and Croatia and moved against Slovenia in the last decade, stripped Kosovo of the constitutional autonomy its people enjoyed, thus denying them their right to speak their language, run their schools, shape their daily lives. For years, Kosovars struggled peacefully to get their rights back. When President Milosevic sent his troops and police to crush them, the struggle grew violent.
Last fall, our diplomacy, backed by the threat of force from our NATO alliance, stopped the fighting for a while and rescued tens of thousands of people from freezing and starvation in the hills, where they had fled to save their lives. And last month, with our allies and Russia, we proposed a peace agreement to end the fighting for good. The Kosovar leaders signed that agreement last week. Even though it does not give them all they want, even though their people were still being savaged, they saw that a just peace is better than a long and unwinnable war.
The Serbian leaders, on the other hand, refused even to discuss key elements of the peace agreement. As the Kosovars were saying yes to peace, Serbia stationed 40,000 troops in and around Kosovo in preparation for a major offensive, and in clear violation of the commitments they had made. Now they've started moving from village to village, shelling civilians and torching their houses.
We've seen innocent people taken from their homes, forced to kneel in the dirt and sprayed with bullets; Kosovar men dragged from their families, fathers and sons together lined up and shot in cold blood. This is not war in the traditional sense. It is an attack by tanks and artillery on a largely defenseless people whose leaders already have agreed to peace. Ending this tragedy is a moral imperative. It is also important to America's national interests. Take a look at this map. Kosovo is a small place, but it sits on a major fault line between Europe, Asia and the Middle East, at the meeting place of Islam and both the western and orthodox branches of Christianity. To the south are our allies, Greece and Turkey; to the north our new democratic allies in Central Europe.
And all around Kosovo there are other small countries struggling with their own economic and political challenges, countries that could be overwhelmed by a large new wave of refugees from Kosovo. All the ingredients for a major war are there: Ancient grievances, struggling democracies, and in the center of it all, a dictator in Serbia who has done nothing since the cold war ended but start new wars and pour gasoline on the flames of ethnic and religious division.
Sarajevo, the capital of neighboring Bosnia, is where World War I began. World War II and the Holocaust engulfed this region. In both wars, Europe was slow to recognize the dangers, and the United States waited even longer to enter the conflicts. Just imagine if leaders back then had acted wisely and early enough. How many lives could have been saved? How many Americans would not have had to die?
We learned some of the same lessons in Bosnia just a few years ago. The world did not act early enough to stop that war either. And let's not forget what happened: Innocent people herded into concentration camps; children gunned down by snipers on their way to school; soccer fields and parks turned into cemeteries; a quarter of a million people killed not because of anything they had done but because of who they were. Two million Bosnians became refugees.
This was genocide in the heart of Europe, not in 1945 but in 1995, not in some grainy newsreel from our parents' and grandparents' time, but in our own time, testing our humanity and our resolve.
At the time, many people believed nothing could be done to end the bloodshed in Bosnia. They said, "Well, that's just the way those people in the Balkans are." But when we and our allies joined with courageous Bosnians to stand up to the aggressors, we helped to end the war. We learned that in the Balkans inaction in the face of brutality simply invites more brutality, but firmness can stop armies and save lives. We must apply that lesson in Kosovo, before what happened in Bosnia happens there too.
Over the last few months we have done everything we possibly could to solve this problem peacefully. Secretary Albright has worked tirelessly for a negotiated agreement. Mr. Milosevic has refused. On Sunday I sent Ambassador Dick Holbrooke to Serbia to make clear to him again, on behalf of the United States and our NATO allies, that he must honor his own commitments and stop his repression or face military action. Again he refused.
Today we and our 18 NATO allies agreed to do what we said we would do, what we must do to restore the peace. Our mission is clear: to demonstrate the seriousness of NATO's purpose so that the Serbian leaders understand the imperative of reversing course; to deter an even bloodier offensive against innocent civilians in Kosovo; and, if necessary, to seriously damage the Serbian military's capacity to harm the people of Kosovo. In short, if President Milosevic will not make peace, we will limit his ability to make war.
Now, I want to be clear with you, there are risks in this military action -- risk to our pilots and the people on the ground. Serbia's air defenses are strong. It could decide to intensify its assault on Kosovo, or to seek to harm us or our allies elsewhere. If it does, we will deliver a forceful response. Hopefully Mr. Milosevic will realize his present course is self-destructive and unsustainable.
If he decides to accept the peace agreement and demilitarize Kosovo, NATO has agreed to help to implement it with a peacekeeping force. If NATO is invited to do so, our troops should take part in that mission to keep the peace. But I do not intend to put our troops in Kosovo to fight a war.
Do our interests in Kosovo justify the dangers to our armed forces? I thought long and hard about that question. I am convinced that the dangers of acting are far outweighed by the dangers of not acting -- dangers to defenseless people and to our national interests. If we and our allies were to allow this war to continue with no response, President Milosevic would read our hesitation as a license to kill. There would be many more massacres -- tens of thousands more refugees, more victims crying out for revenge. Right now our firmness is the only hope the people of Kosovo have to be able to live in their own country without having to fear for their own lives.
Remember, we asked them to accept peace, and they did. We asked them to promise to lay down their arms, and they agreed. We pledged that we, the United States and the other 18 nations of NATO, would stick by them if they did the right thing. We cannot let them down now.
Imagine what would happen if we and our allies instead decided just to look the other way as these people were massacred on NATO's doorstep. That would discredit NATO, the cornerstone on which our security has rested for 50 years now.
We must also remember that this is a conflict with no natural national boundaries. Let me ask you to look again at a map. The red dots are towns the Serbs have attacked. The arrows show the movement of refugees -- north, east and south. Already this movement is threatening the young democracy in Macedonia, which has its own Albanian minority and a Turkish minority. Already Serbian forces have made forays into Albania, from which Kosovars have drawn support. Albania has a Greek minority. Let a fire burn here in this area, and the flames will spread. Eventually key U.S. allies could be drawn into a wider conflict, or we would be forced to confront later only at far greater risk and greater cost.
I have a responsibility as President to deal with problems such as this before they do permanent harm to our national interests. America has a responsibility to stand with our allies when they are trying to save innocent lives and preserve peace, freedom and stability in Europe. That is what we are doing in Kosovo.
If we have learned anything from the century drawing to a close, it is that if America is going to be prosperous and secure we need a Europe that is prosperous, secure, undivided and free. We need a Europe that is coming together, not falling apart, a Europe that shares our values and shares the burdens of leadership. That is the foundation on which the security of our children will depend. That is why I have supported the political and economic unification of Europe. That is why we brought Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic into NATO and redefined its mission, and reached out to Russia and Ukraine for new partnerships.
Now, what are the challenges to that vision of a peaceful, secure, united, stable Europe? The challenge of strengthening a partnership with the democratic Russia, that despite our disagreements is a constructive partner in the work of building peace. The challenge of resolving the tension between Greece and Turkey, and building bridges with the Islamic world. And finally the challenge of ending instability in the Balkans so that these bitter ethnic problems are resolved by the force of argument, not the force of arms, so that future generations of Americans do not have to cross the Atlantic to fight another terrible war. It is this challenge that we and our allies are facing in Kosovo. That is why we have acted now, because we care about saving innocent lives, because we have an interest in avoiding an even crueler and costlier war, and because our children need and deserve a peaceful, stable, free Europe.
Our thoughts and prayers tonight must be with the men and women of our armed forces who are undertaking this mission for the sake of our values and our children's future. May God bless them, and may God bless America. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about President Clinton's speech to the nation Wednesday night on Kosovo referred incorrectly in some copies to the year Yugoslavia began to break apart. It was 1991, not 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GREECE (73%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GREECE (73%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); BOMBINGS (77%); FAMILY (74%); POLITICS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999



526 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 26; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2223 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:
Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on page 9.
 
Now Playing
* "AFFLICTION," starring Nick Nolte, James Coburn (winner of the Oscar for best-supporting actor), Willem Dafoe, Sissy Spacek and Mary Beth Hurt. Directed by Paul Schrader (R, 114 minutes). Mr. Nolte is devastating in the performance of his career, as Wade Whitehouse, a New Hampshire loner fighting a losing battle with demons from his past. Foremost among them: Mr. Coburn, terrifyingly authentic as the drunken, abusive father who long ago cowed his sons into submission. As directed by Mr. Schrader, this pure, unfettered adaptation of Russell Banks's novel starts on a deceptively ordinary note, then escalates into inexorable fury. Every little detail matters. Ms. Spacek and Ms. Hurt expertly play the women who trigger Wade's crisis (Janet Maslin).
 * "ANALYZE THIS," starring Robert De Niro and Billy Crystal. Directed by Harold Ramis (R, 110 minutes). The title, concept and teaming of these co-stars are all funny before the lights go down, so think of this comedy as an offer you can't refuse. Cast as a mobster whose confidence is shaken, Mr. De Niro is hilarious simply by playing his role halfway straight, in classic goodfella style. His mobster finds just the right comic foil in Billy Crystal, as the psychiatrist who utters the immortal: "When I got into family therapy, this wasn't the family I had in mind." There's a lot more where that came from in this breezy comic treat (Maslin).
 "BABY GENIUSES," starring Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd and many toddlers. Directed by Bob Clark (PG, 94 minutes). One way to get through this guaranteed 100 percent laugh-free comedy is to wonder whether it really is the worst film you've even seen. Probably not, but it's pretty darn close. Woefully substandard production values give it a ghastly look, made all the worse by the grotesque computer morphing of young children into adult-style wise guys. The plotting is shrill, bordering on incomprehensible. Ms. Turner lurches through the film with a performance that just says, "Hey, it's a living" (Maslin).
 * "CENTRAL STATION," starring Fernanda Montenegro, Vinicius de Oliveira and Marilia Pera. Directed by Walter Salles (R, 115 minutes). In this quiet, luminous Brazilian gem, a joyless older woman crosses paths with an orphaned boy. There's plenty of room for sentimentality here, but the wonder of Mr. Salles's film is all in the telling. As these characters develop a fractious bond, then embark on a road trip that takes them vividly to Brazil's hinterlands in search of the boy's father, Mr. Salles brings great tenderness and surprise to the events that punctuate their journey. Ms. Montenegro's tough bravura performance was one of last year's very best (Maslin).
 "THE CORRUPTOR," starring Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg. Directed by James Foley (R, 111 minutes). A conventional but above-average police drama set in Chinatown in New York City, "The Corruptor" finds the rookie cop Danny Wallace (Mr. Wahlberg) learning the ropes from his rule-bending partner, Nick Chen (Mr. Chow), who has gotten dangerously chummy with Chinatown's mob bosses. The atmosphere is gritty, the action sequences sleek and the questions the story raises about loyalty, ethics, friendship and betrayal, although familiar, are still worth bringing up. "The Corruptor" is a more effective showcase for the brooding charisma of Mr. Chow, a Hong Kong action superstar, than "The Replacement Killers," his English-language debut (Stephen Holden).
 * "THE DEEP END OF THE OCEAN," starring Michelle Pfeiffer, Treat Williams, Whoopi Goldberg and Jonathan Jackson. Directed by Ulu Grosbard (PG-13, 108 minutes). Ms. Pfeiffer gives a fine, affecting performance in this adaptation of Jacquelyn Mitchard's best seller. And Mr. Grosbard carefully delineates its story of a child's disappearance and its aftermath, showing the ways that such a catastrophe affects his family. Restrained and unsentimental, this astute drama deals thoughtfully with the chasm between real and idealized family lives (Maslin).
 "EIGHT MILLIMETER," starring Nicolas Cage, Joaquin Phoenix, James Gandolfini, Myra Carter and Catherine Keener. Directed by Joel Schumacher (R, 120 minutes). This thriller delves into the perverse underworld of the pornography business, shocking audiences with the realization that sex and violence can be so dull. Mr. Cage, seriously miscast, plays a private detective and devoted family man who is suddenly, to his horror, drawn into the realm of porn. Naturally, this is where the film wanted to be even when its opening scenes were stuck in suburban Pennsylvania. But the story's parade of New York and Hollywood sleazeballs fails to deliver either engaging drama or heartfelt kinks. Mr. Phoenix is scene-stealingly good in a sidekick's role (Maslin).
 "ELIZABETH," the Oscar winner for best makeup. Starring Cate Blanchett, Joseph Fiennes, Geoffrey Rush and Christopher Eccleston. Directed by Shekhar Kapur (R, 124 minutes). In this lurid costume drama depicting Elizabeth I as a royal rookie, the impressive Ms. Blanchett plays the Queen as if her principal responsibilities were being bejeweled, selecting consorts and saying "Leave us!" with a wave of the hand. For all its putative concern with Roman Catholic-Protestant strife at the start of Elizabeth's reign, this is historical drama for those whose idea of history is back issues of Vogue. Intent on spectacle, complete with burning at the stake and one dance scene reminiscent of "Saturday Night Fever," it winds up imagining the Queen as a glamorously stressed-out modern woman afflicted by a super-intense case of having it all (Maslin).

 "FORCES OF NATURE," starring Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck. Directed by Bronwen Hughes (PG-13, 102 minutes). Does Ms. Bullock's loopy girl-next-door charm really make audiences want to follow her anywhere? If so, they'd better be prepared for an amusement park ride with senior citizens, a long romp through K-mart and the other equally desperate settings for a road movie that otherwise has nowhere to go. A would-be screwball romantic comedy about a man thrown together with a zany drifter en route to his own wedding, it shows off Ms. Bullock to amusing if overly frenetic advantage. Mr. Affleck fares less well with the film's wimpier role. Some of the material's many gaps are filled by special-effects hail and windstorms, which are as close as the title comes to making any sense (Maslin).
 * "LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL" (winner of the best-foreign-film Oscar), directed by and starring Roberto Benigni (named best actor) (PG-13, 122 minutes). Italy's most antic funnyman dares to find humor and tenderness in the midst of the Holocaust, and his risk pays off. This Cannes prize winner is as stubbornly entertaining as its central character, a Jewish waiter named Guido who jokes his way through the nightmare for the sake of his loved ones. Daring also to combine an opening hour of romance and pranks with a more somber second act, Mr. Benigni avoids all traces of the maudlin and effectively creates a situation in which comedy is courage. In this unpretentious, enormously likable film, he shines as a father whose fibs and hilarious buffoonery know no bounds, and no fear (Maslin).
 * "LOCK, STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS," starring Jason Flemyng, Dexter Fletcher, Sting, Jason Statham, Vinnie Jones and Nick Moran. Directed by Guy Ritchie (R, 106 minutes). Not since "The Usual Suspects" has there been such an oversupply of cool macho schemers in a single film. And they're served up with a quick, tart economy that bespeaks the filmmaker's background making videos and commercials -- actually an advantage, for a change. There's not much beneath the surface here; what's most entertaining is Mr. Ritchie's droll, hard-boiled storytelling and the rogue's gallery of a cast that he has assembled. All the film need do is juggle assorted miscreants and four separate gangs who, figuratively speaking, can't shoot straight (Maslin).
 "PAYBACK," starring Mel Gibson, James Coburn and Gregg Henry. Directed by Brian Helgeland (R, 110 minutes). In this inept, excessively sadistic film-noir spoof adapted from the same Richard Stark novel ("The Hunter") that inspired the 1967 genre classic "Point Blank," Mr. Gibson is a thief named Porter who retaliates with a vengeance after an attempt on his life. Determined to recover $70,000 that was stolen from him by a double-crossing partner in crime, he works his way up the pecking order of a crime syndicate, brutally dispatching all who stand in his way. The hard-boiled dialogue is ludicrous, the storytelling clunky, the acting fair to awful, the gore ankle deep. Credit the star with being able to keep a straight face through this loathsome mess (Holden).
 * "SAVING PRIVATE RYAN," Oscar winner for best cinematography, best editing, best sound and best sound-effects editing. Starring Tom Hanks, Matt Damon, Tom Sizemore, Jeremy Davies, Edward Burns and Adam Goldberg. Directed by Steven Spielberg (winner of the best-director Oscar) (R, 168 minutes). Mr. Spielberg's soberly magnificent new film is the finest war movie of our time. Turning back the clock to restore passion and meaning to the genre, he works in a spirit of urgent communication to look at war as if it has not been looked at before. Tour-de-force battle scenes are frank without sensationalism, and the same great storyteller who made you believe there was an extraterrestrial hiding in the closet has made this an irresistibly vibrant, gripping tale. Mr. Hanks continues to astonish with admirable modesty, and the rest of the casting is comparably inspired. As he did with "Schindler's List," Mr. Spielberg has made a landmark film of devastating power (Maslin).
 * "SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE" (the Oscar winner for best film, best original screenplay, best art direction, best costumes and best comedy score.) Starring Joseph Fiennes, Gwyneth Paltrow (the best-actress winner), Geoffrey Rush, Ben Affleck and Judi Dench (best supporting actress). Directed by John Madden (R, 113 minutes). A witty, sexy and merrily literate delight, with an exhilaratingly clever premise that only gets better as the film unfolds. The screenplay, originating as Marc Norman's brainstorm and turned by Tom Stoppard into razor-sharp dialogue reminiscent of his "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead," dares to imagine whatever it likes about the link between Shakespeare's artistic passions and his mad yearning for a certain aristocratic beauty. Meanwhile, this tirelessly inventive comedy envisions an Elizabethan theater fraught with the same backbiting and conniving we enjoy today and has great fun presenting the creation of "Romeo and Juliet," glitches and all. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Paltrow make a fine, tempestuous duo, and she gives the first great, fully realized starring performance of her career (Maslin).
 * "TANGO," starring Miguel Angel Sola. Written and directed by Carlos Saura. Cinematography by Vittorio Storaro (PG-13, 100 minutes). A thrilling display of tango heat and virtuosity. And it's no slight to the actors who play lovers to say that the dancing here is steamier than any kiss. In his most electrifying dance film, Mr. Saura offers transfixingly beautiful glimpses of the dance and the great range of emotions it can conjure. Mr. Storaro's dazzlingly fluid cinematography captures all the nuances this material demands. Everyone in the film is utterly consumed by tango fever; audiences will be, too (Maslin).
 "THE THIN RED LINE," starring Jim Caviezel, Ben Chaplin, Nick Nolte, Sean Penn and Woody Harrelson. Directed by Terrence Malick (R, 166 minutes). From the first frame of this huge, drifting war epic loosely derived from James Jones's Guadalcanal novel, it's viscerally clear that Mr. Malick is back. The exquisite, oddly detached visual style that made "Badlands" and "Days of Heaven" the most beautiful films of the 1970's is instantly apparent here, even if the narrative vagueness and brooding voice-overs are also familiar. The film sprawls, gets lost and occasionally delivers visual poetry, the kind that could have been greatly helped by tighter editing. Bottom line: No one who admired Mr. Malick's early work should miss this. But those expecting anything simple will not find it here (Maslin).
 * "TRUE CRIME," starring Clint Eastwood, Isaiah Washington, James Woods and Lisa Gay Hamilton. Directed by Clint Eastwood (R, 127 minutes). In his most quietly poignant film since "A Perfect World," Mr. Eastwood directs a death row thriller with redemption on its mind. Beginning almost casually, and taking on growing urgency as it moves toward an imaginatively suspenseful ending, it tells of a jaded newspaper reporter who, to his own surprise as much as anyone else's, finds himself fighting at the 11th hour to save a possibly innocent man from execution. Mr. Eastwood is older than the man he plays, but not too old to be plausible as the father of an adorable little girl in the cast; she happens to be his real daughter (Maslin).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck in the film "Forces of Nature," directed by Bronwen Hughes. (Darren Michaels/Dreamworks Pictures); A death row thriller with redemption on its mind: Clint Eastwood stars in his film "True Crime." (Sam Emerson/Warner Brothers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); CHILDREN (87%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); ORPHANS (74%); FAMILY (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); ORGANIZED CRIME (64%); 

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (78%); CLINT EASTWOOD (58%); SANDRA BULLOCK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



527 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 44; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2682 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND EXCURSION;
A City With Its Heart in the Sea

BYLINE: By PAMELA PETRO 

 BODY:
When the whalemen of New Bedford, Mass., built their city, they built it sturdy and massive, setting columns and pediments and granite boxes squarely upon the land. But to this day the colors in the historic district, of the Custom House and Seaman's Bethel, even of the cobblestones that line the streets, reflect where the founding fathers' hearts really lay.
Almost all of the old city is blanched salty white like a high tide mark or colored the smoky yellow of sea foam, the gray of a threatening ocean or the deep, oaky maroon of blood dried on a ship's deck. 
 Herman Melville recognized the city's architectural preoccupation with the sea, too, and set it down in "Moby-Dick": "Nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford. Whence came they? . . . All these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. One and all they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea."
On a chilly day in New Bedford, with gulls crying and the weather vanes atop the Whaling Museum and Seaman's Bethel spinning madly, the brave, grim days of whaling don't seem so far away. A hundred years ago, and for much of the century before that, until coal replaced whale oil as the world's energy-producer, New Bedford was the whaling capital of the earth.
Today, its 13-block historic district, now the Whaling National Historical Park, is both richly handsome and weatherworn, with sleek restaurants in former banks next to empty shops with sagging, clapboard facades. It is this rare combination of respect for the past and gritty honesty about an industry's demise that makes a visitor's throat catch.
I was in town with two friends on a weekend break. We wanted to get a whiff of the whaling past and investigate the shredded shoreline along Buzzard's Bay. We began in the city. Perched on Johnny Cake Hill above the still-working waterfront, with the Whaling Museum immediately at our backs, we faced two imposing clapboard structures: the 1787 Mariner's Home and its neighbor, the Seaman's Bethel, built in 1832. The Mariner's Home literally marries its boards and beams to the sea, noting its address as 41 38' 08" N Latitude, 70 55' 26" W Longitude. Because it is still home to New Bedford fishermen, a sign says, it is "not open to casual visitors." So we entered the sailors' chapel next door.
The Seaman's Bethel is as ship-like as an earth-bound building can be. Before even glimpsing the famous prow-shaped pulpit or the fishing nets strung from the upper galleries, I was nearly convinced by the gleaming floorboards and cream-colored pews, every irregularity long smoothed over by dozens of coats of paint, that I had stumbled into the lower decks of an old, well-kept vessel. There was even a faint smell of paint in the air. Entering full of enthusiasm, we were immediately reduced to silence by the memorial plaques lining the walls. The inscriptions began in the 19th century and continue up to the present. One read: "In Memory of the Men of the Fishing Vessel Irene and Hilda, Lost at Sea October 25, 1980." Below that were six Portuguese names and the lines, "O God Thy sea is so great, And my boat is so small."
 
A Portuguese Flavor
New Bedford, like much of the Southern New England coast from Providence, R.I., to Provincetown, Mass., remains a Portuguese-inflected place. In the heyday of whaling, from 1860 to 1920, some 60 percent of the crewmen and masters on the great whalers were of Portuguese descent. A weather pattern accounts for this monopoly: the prevailing winds blow directly from New England to the Azores. During the mid-19th century the islands were experiencing a severe recession; sailors looking for work signed aboard Yankee ships and wound up in New Bedford, which eventually drew whaling crews and later fishermen from Cape Verde, Madeira and mainland Portugal as well.
The legacy of these men and their families has recently been bound into a handsome volume called "Portuguese Spinner: An American Story," subtitled "Stories of History, Culture and Life from Portuguese-Americans in Southern New England" (Spinner Publications, 1998, $29.95).
We'd intended to sample a different Portuguese legacy -- bacalao, or baked codfish -- at Antonio's, a Portuguese restaurant in another part of town, but because we were running late we ate lunch at the nearby Candleworks instead. Eras clash with a vengeance in the old Rodman Candleworks Building, a neat granite factory built in 1810 and stuccoed a vivid (and according to preservationists, authentic) sunset-mauve. Now it's a cavelike basement restaurant with romantic rough-hewn beams, exposed stone walls and upholstered chairs, where we had exceptional seafood chowder.
Throughout the 19th century, the Candleworks factory produced dripless "spermaceti" candles from the oil of the sperm whale. The measurement "one candlepower" is based on a single spermaceti flame.
After lunch we walked two blocks back to the Whaling Museum. In the welter of paintings, artifacts and explanatory panels it's easy to miss the reference to a "Nantucket Sleigh-Ride" -- what the trip is called when a small boat is pulled along by a harpooned whale -- or the photograph of an intrepid Sophie Porter and her daughter outfitted in Chewbacca-style fur parkas during "overwintering season" in 1895. Overwintering referred to the intentional stranding of whaling vessels in frozen Arctic waters; nine months later, the ships would be on hand to harvest Bowhead whales when they returned for the July thaw.
What no one can miss, however, is the 89-foot-long half-scale model of the whaling bark Lagoda, which dominates the museum's two-story atrium. So big and impressive indoors, yet so small even at twice this size on the open seas. The Lagoda is a good talisman for whaling itself: it is impossible on land to re-imagine the peril or possibly the thrill of the whaling life for Sophie Porter and her husband.
In the museum, I learned about various people of whaling: Gregory Peck as Captain Ahab in the 1956 film "Moby Dick," Melville jumping ship in Tahiti and being jailed as a shirker, and one Capt. Paul Cuffee (1759-1817), whose paper cut-out silhouette is in the museum's collection. Cuffee was born on Cuttyhunk Island as Paul Moses, but according to a museum plaque, changed his name to better reflect his African-American heritage. He later used his influence as a successful whaling captain and philanthropist to help African- and Native Americans get a start in the industry.
As I wandered the collections, time shrank and distance grew. A room of whalers' souvenirs from far-flung regions, including Eskimo masks and Maori weavings, brought home how far these people traveled to earn their living. Yet a glance out the window at the masts of New Bedford harbor, and the cobblestones and gas-style street lamps closer at hand, almost convinced me I could walk outside and meet Captain Cuffee at the Candleworks. It was a dislocating feeling, soon joined by a disturbing smell, waxy rather than fetid, which grew stronger as I neared the museum basement. The scent turned out to belong to the half-assembled skeleton of a blue whale, next to which a sign read, "A skeleton of a 65-foot juvenile whale is responsible for this authentic smell of a 19th-century whaling city."
The museum ends in a display of yearning: cases of scrimshaw carvings, made by lonely men with too much time on a too-big ocean. Were Herman Melville starting out as a writer today, the Whaling Museum might be sufficiently evocative to inspire him to write "Moby-Dick."
 
Temples of Privilege
We left Whaling National Historical Park to take a brief look at what all this seafaring had achieved on land. Seven blocks uphill from the Whaling Museum is County Street, where Melville's "patrician-like houses" and "flowery gardens" are permanently moored. Many of these, like the William Rodman Mansion and the Joseph Grinnell House, are veritable Greek Revival temples to domestic privilege, as proud and stern as any columned bank.
The Rotch-Jones-Duff House, now open as a museum, is more subtle. Built in 1834, its Greek Revival hauteur is offset by warm, butterscotch-colored clapboards; inside, the house reflects each era of its inhabitation rather than just one. As I climbed to the upstairs bedrooms I left the 19th century behind; in Mrs. Duff's wonderful eggplant-and-peach Art Deco bathroom, fitted with chest-level showerheads (to keep one's hair dry), I found the 1930's.
Our real destination, however, was not a date but a place: the Mattapoisett Inn, about a 20-minute drive up the coast, halfway between New Bedford and the Cape Cod Canal. Mattapoisett is among a handful of ancient shipbuilding villages that dot the Buzzard's Bay shoreline. Off-season their shingled homes are just a shade smokier than the blue-gray of the sea and a tone darker than the paler gray of the sky. These are quiet places, but even in cold weather they hold treasures. One is the Mattapoisett Inn, a 1799 hostelry directly opposite the bay.
On a weekend evening the dining room was crowded, and I sampled pork tenderloin with cashews, basted with rum and molasses, before my friends and I shared bananas foster with pumpkin ice cream for dessert. Our only quarrel was that after 10 P.M. our comfortable bedrooms literally shook with live music from the bar. The band was good, but I would have appreciated learning on the phone, not as I checked in, that our rooms "might be a little noisy."
 
Tracking a Local Cheese
The next morning we grabbed coffee and sweet rolls at the Shipyard Galley, a tiny breakfast place with a plaque that announced it was once "John Atsatt's Carpenter Shop, 1798." There I found wrapped wedges of Great Hill Dairy blue cheese made at a family dairy in nearby Marion. We accepted the cheese as a directional omen, and within 10 minutes were touring Marion's seaside encampment of well-kept historic homes, where we found more Great Hill cheese at the Marion General Store on Main Street (which also sells its own brand of vodka). Unlike Mattapoisett, which is too small to offer many nonessential shops, Marion supports a bookstore and several gift shops.
I called the owner of Great Hill Dairy, Tim Stone, to ask about a tour, but because cheese making is a family business based in his home, Mr. Stone was reluctant to open to the public. But he did give me friendly advice on where to eat. Margaret's in Fairhaven, he said, was an unsung gem; and it made omelets with his cheese. We gave it a try and found an unprepossessing restaurant filled with local people, on a quiet street a few blocks from the sea. With a struggle I passed up the peanut butter and fluff sandwich for $1.25, and had supremely fresh fish and chips.
It was our intention to finish our exploration in a westerly direction, winding up with a wine tasting at Westport Rivers Winery, 15 minutes from New Bedford: 15 minutes, that is, if one doesn't get lost. We wound up one peninsula to the east, in the lovely seaside village of Padanarum, after which we wound our way for the better part of an hour through rolling farmland, stripped in winter to Bruegel-like essentials of stone walls, cleared fields, marsh and sky. When vineyards entered the picture, we knew we'd reached our destination.
Westport Rivers Winery sits on a 200-acre farm. It's a hugely attractive place -- the wine-tasting room, shop and upstairs art gallery occupy a renovated Victorian farmhouse -- with high ideals of land preservation. Westport produces (by the methode champenoise) three sparkling wines, all estate-grown, including a crisp Blanc de Blanc and a flavorful Brut Cuve.
Between the landscape and the wines, we were nearly convinced we were in Europe. To reground myself in Massachusetts, I drove us down to the tip of Westport Point, past a one-street community of 18th- and 19th-century clapboards, where we found the Paquachuck Inn at the tip and a brace of shored fishing boats, which brought home our proximity to New Bedford, to the past and to the sea.
 
The Ocean's Bounty, to See and to Eat
 
Here is information about visiting New Bedford, Mass., and the surrounding area:
 
Attractions
 
NEW BEDFORD WHALING MUSEUM, 18 Johnny Cake Hill, (508) 997-0046. This mother lode of whaling memorabilia has special exhibits devoted to Herman Melville and "Moby Dick" and a fine historical library. Hours: Daily 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: $4.50; $3.50 for the elderly; $3 for children 6 to 14; under 6, free.
 
ROTCH-JONES-DUFF HOUSE AND GARDEN MUSEUM, 396 County Street, (508) 997-1401. A wooden Greek Revival mansion designed by Richard Upjohn. Closed for renovations until April 9. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Admission: $4.
 
SEAMAN'S BETHEL, 15 Johnny Cake Hill, (508) 992-3295. An old whaling chapel with a prow-shaped pulpit. If locked, get the key at the Mariner's Home next door.
 
WESTPORT RIVERS VINEYARD AND WINERY, 417 Hixbridge Road, Westport, (508) 636-3423. Winery with wine-tasting bar, art gallery and gift shop in a Victorian farmhouse, surrounded by a 200-acre farm. Hours: Daily, 12 P.M. to 5 P.M.; tours on weekends.
 
NEW BEDFORD WHALING NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK VISITORS CENTER, 33 Williams Street, (508) 991-6200. The park incorporates the historic district of old New Bedford; the Visitors Center, in a handsome former bank, is a good place to ask questions and collect information. Hours: Daily, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M. Walking tours begin in May.
 
Accommodations
 
MATTAPOISETT INN, 13 Water Street, Mattapoisett, (508) 758-4922. Billing itself as the oldest seaside hostelry in the nation, the inn is better known for its food than for its three pretty bedrooms, each with a private bath, which cost $75 a night (no breakfast). Evening meals feature local ingredients; specialties include lobster potato cakes with melted brie, pistachio-crusted pork loin and buttermilk-fried lobster with pasta. Dinner for two is about $70. Live music in the bar on weekends.
 
PAQUACHUCK INN, 2056 Main Road, Westport Point, (508) 636-4398. Almost in the water, at the end of a one-street settlement of historic homes, this weathered-shingle inn still looks like the general store it once was. Eight simply furnished but attractive bedrooms: $95 to $105 a night including continental breakfast.
 
SALT MARSH FARM B&B, 322 Smith Neck Road, South Dartmouth, (508) 992-0980. A Georgian farmhouse on a 90-acre nature preserve. Two bedrooms, each with bath and private stairway, and common rooms filled with books: $75 to $85 a night including full breakfast and afternoon tea.
Dining
 
ANTONIO'S, 267 Coggeshall Street, New Bedford, (508) 990-3636. Authentic Portuguese specialties, including baked codfish, flan, and vinho verde (Portuguese "green" wine). A meal for two is about $40.
 
THE CANDLEWORKS, 72 North Water Street, New Bedford, (508) 997-1294 or 997-1295. A romantic spot in the basement of the old Rodman Candleworks Building. Lunches include sandwiches and salads, along with well-seasoned entrees like clams oreganta on linguine, superb seafood chowder and local Westport Rivers wines. Dinner served daily; lunch, Mondays through Fridays. Lunch for two is about $23.
 
FREESTONES CITY GRILL, 41 William Street, New Bedford, (508) 993-7477. A reliable 20th-century menu served in an 1877 bank building. Burgers, sandwiches, salads, steaks, ribs and fish, with vegetarian selections and Westport Rivers wines. The fish chowder is a winner. Dinner for two with wine is about $40.
 
MARGARET'S, 16 Main Street, Fairhaven, (508) 992-9942. A local haven open for breakfast and lunch daily with dinners on Fridays. Lunch for three cost $28.
 
SHIPYARD GALLEY, 10 Water Street, Mattapoisett, (508) 758-9408. A tiny breakfast spot, with fresh-baked breads, muffins, bear claws drizzled with frosting and top-notch coffee. The local Great Hill Dairy blue cheese is for sale here.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A fitting weather vane atop the New Bedford Whaling Museum. A half-scale model of the bark Lagoda at the Whaling Museum. (Photographs by Michael Quan Photography)
 
Map of Massachusetts highlighting New Bedford Waterfront Historic District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC PACIFIC AUTOMOTIVE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD (MASS); UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); CITIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); OCEANS (75%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); RESTAURANTS (63%); 

PERSON: PETRO, PAMELA

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



528 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 38; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART;
Warhol 'Supper' For Openers

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:
The Solomon R. Guggenheim's SoHo branch, whose closing in January was rumored to be permanent, will reopen -- 7,000 square feet smaller -- on May 12. Most of the ground floor occupied by the museum at 575 Broadway, at the corner of Prince Street, will soon become a Prada store, the Italian retailer's third in SoHo. 
 The Guggenheim SoHo's opening show -- an exhibition of 60 paintings from Andy Warhol's late "Last Supper" series -- is about as fashionable as art can get. The works come from the collections of Heiner Friedrich and Peter Brant. Mr. Friedrich is a Manhattan dealer who was one of the founders of the Dia Center for the Arts. Mr. Brant is a collector who has sold major portions of his collection recently -- works by Robert Rauschenberg, Jackson Pollock and Jasper Johns. He also happens to be the Guggenheim SoHo's landlord. He owns 575 Broadway.
"We understand that their intention is to make these works available to the public, and we're comfortable with that," said Judy Cox, a deputy director at the Guggenheim. "We have been assured the paintings are not for sale."
Mr. Friedrich bought the Warhols from the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, which is the sole beneficiary of the artist's estate. He then sold some of them to Mr. Brant with an understanding that the two men would give each other right of first refusal if one wanted to sell any portion of the collection. "We wanted to find an institution that would take them long-term and we wanted them to stay together," Mr. Brant said. "If the show is successful, they'll stay there."
Guggenheim officials say the Warhols are on long-term loan and they have set no formal closing date for the show, saying only that it will be sometime in the fall.
Two of the monumental "Last Supper" paintings were included in a show at the Dia Center for the Arts in Chelsea in the 1994-1995 season. The entire collection was later on view in Munich. Mr. Friedrich also rented a Chelsea gallery space owned by Dia to show some of the "Last Supper" paintings privately. "This will be the first time they will have been shown as a group in New York," Mr. Brant said.
The "Last Supper" series represents Warhol's reflections on Leonardo da Vinci's "Last Supper" (1495-97), and the works are based more on reproductions of the famous image than the image itself. Working from photographs, drawings and plastic models, the artist created variations on the scene, which depicts Jesus surrounded by his disciples.
Lisa Dennison, a deputy director at the Guggenheim and its chief curator, said the museum had been rethinking its SoHo museum and wanted more of the exhibitions there to be long-term and drawn from the museum's permanent collection. "We're deeply committed to late Warhols," Ms. Dennison said.
Would the museum like Mr. Friedrich and Mr. Brant to donate the paintings? "Yes," Ms. Dennison said. "That's our hope."
What will happen in the fall, when the Warhols are taken down? "We'll probably do something else from the permanent collection," Ms. Dennison said. She suggested that after the exhibition, the Warhol works "will be tied to the identity of the museum."
By that time, the Guggenheim may well have firm plans for another site in Manhattan, and it could include a special gallery for the "Last Supper" series. The museum hopes to build a huge new museum designed by Frank Gehry, the California architect responsible for the Guggenheim in Bilbao, Spain.
One site in which the Guggenheim is interested is Pier 40, a 15-acre site owned by New York State along the Hudson River off Houston Street. The museum is also looking at other sites, one of which is thought to be on three piers near the South Street Seaport. The Economic Development Corporation of New York City called for proposals for building on the piers; Bernadette O'Leary, a spokeswoman for the agency, declined to say who responded.
"We have been in discussions with the city about a variety of sites along the waterfront," Ms. Cox said. "We haven't ruled out any potential sites. We're working with the city to determine what would be the best possible location for a museum."
 
Boston Debut, in Japan
In the making for more than seven years, the Nagoya/Boston Museum of Fine Arts is finally scheduled to open on April 17 in Japan. It will be the first museum in Japan to provide an encyclopedic view of art from all cultures and time periods.
In much the same way that the Guggenheim persuaded officials in the Basque region of Spain to pay for its Bilbao branch, the Museum of Fine Arts has won financing from Nagoya's Foundation for the Arts, its city government and the Aichi Prefecture.
The project has faced delays compounded by economic shakiness in Japan and political battles within the foundation. It was originally supposed to have opened three years ago.
Over the next 20 years, $50 million will be given to the Boston museum for operations, capital expenses, special projects and its endowment. In exchange the Nagoya museum will receive a 20-year commitment for loans from the Museum of Fine Arts collection. (Boston received the first $5 million when a letter of intent was signed in 1991, and used it to pay off bonds.)
The new museum will present two shows a year from Boston as well as one five-year loan exhibition. The opening exhibitions include "Monet, Renoir and the Impressionist Landscape" (April 17 through Sept. 26) and "Art of the Ancient Mediterranean World" (April 17 through March 2004).
The new museum has about 15,000 square feet of exhibition space on three floors and will also have a shop, lecture room, library, offices and storage. It will be operated by the foundation under the direction of Tadao Ogura, who was previously the director of the Kyoto National Museum of Modern Art.
The Boston museum has a long history of collaborations with Japanese institutions. It has been collecting Japanese art since the 1890's and has been sending shows to different parts of Japan for 15 years.
 
Changes in St. Louis
Brent R. Benjamin, the deputy director for curatorial affairs at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston for the last five years, has been named director of the St. Louis Art Museum. On May 1 he replaces James D. Burke, who is retiring after 19 years in the director's post.
Mr. Benjamin takes over just as the museum is undergoing a transformation. Over the next 10 years it plans a capital campaign to make its structure in Forest Park earthquake-safe and add a new building of gallery space.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Headed for Guggenheim SoHo: Part of Warhol's "Last Supper" series. (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC); MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (BOSTON); NAGOYA/BOSTON MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (JAPAN); ST LOUIS ART MUSEUM ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION (75%); DIA CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC); MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (BOSTON); NAGOYA/BOSTON MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (JAPAN); ST LOUIS ART MUSEUM ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION (75%); DIA CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOHO AREA (SOUTH HOUSTON INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT) (NYC); NAGOYA (JAPAN); JAPAN; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN, BRENT; BURKE, JAMES D; VOGEL, CAROL MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



529 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/TECHNOLOGY;
High-Voltage Benefits Of Improved Batteries

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
ONE of the most primitive and troublesome components under a car's hood, the battery, is due for an update, auto company executives say. As a result, there could be a cascade of new technologies that would make cars more fuel-efficient and less likely to turn up dead on cold winter mornings.
For as long as cars have had batteries, they have stored electricity with a chemical reaction involving lead and acid. Although 6-volt systems were once common, automotive electrical systems were standardized at 12 volts in 1955. Thus, the design now in use has outlived such mainstays as carburetors, bias-ply tires and leaded gasoline. 
 Engineers want to redesign the electrical system partly because they would like to run more parts of a standard car on electricity, even if the basic energy source is still a gasoline-driven engine. Two candidates for conversion to electricity are power steering units and some components of transmissions. Both now typically operate on hydraulic power, which in turn is produced by a pump driven by belts that run off the driveshaft. Electric pumps can produce hydraulic pressure more efficiently in applications where the need for pressure is sporadic. And in some applications, engineers think they can dispense with hydraulics altogether and do the job with electricity.
But 12-volt motors that pump hydraulic fluid or move mechanical components like steering systems are relatively big and inefficient. Further, the cables that move electricity around at 12 volts are thick and heavy, and the heavier the cable the more energy is lost within the cable itself. With higher voltage, engineers could use thinner cables, saving weight and energy.
At 12 volts, "we end up adding so many pounds of wire," said Robert C. Stempel, an advocate of the change. Mr. Stempel, the former chairman of the General Motors Corporation, is now chairman of Energy Conversion Devices Inc. of Troy, Mich., which pioneered nickel metal-hydride batteries, the kind used in cellular phones and laptop computers. "Isn't it time to raise voltage?" he asked.
The standard car battery is known in the industry as an S.L.I. battery, for starting, lighting and ignition. By adding cells, lead-acid S.L.I.'s could be made to run at any voltage. But these batteries are bulky already and would quickly become more so as their voltage was increased. Mr. Stempel hopes to sell nickel metal-hydride batteries with more than one pair of terminals, each pair giving off a different voltage -- for example, 12 volts out of one pair, to run the radio, and 42 out of the other pair, for the power steering.
There are other reasons, experts at auto manufacturers say, to move into more modern S.L.I. batteries, like the ones that have marched through a range of other consumer products like portable tape players, cellular phones and laptop computers. Nickel metal-hydride is a leading contender, but the answer might be lithium ion, which is also in commercial use in portable electronic devices. Or it could be some battery technologies that do not yet exist in other products.
Laptop and phone batteries store more energy per pound and withstand deep discharges better; in contrast, the standard automotive lead-acid battery is irreparably damaged by just a few full discharges -- as when the driver leaves the lights on.
And at extremely low temperatures, nickel metal-hydride loses less of its ability to deliver current than lead-acid does, its backers say.
That is a consumer benefit that potential purchasers would have to be convinced was worth the extra cost. But auto makers might be more likely to change the electrical system for a more direct reason, better fuel economy, particularly in Japan and Europe.
Mark W. Verbrugge, a General Motors technology specialist now on loan to the United States Advanced Battery Consortium, a research group financed by the Federal Government and the auto companies, said that continuously variable transmissions -- which are under development by many leading car companies and offered in the United States on the Honda Civic HX -- would be good candidates for controls operated by an electric or electro-hydraulic source. This type of transmission does not use conventional gears, but belts and pulleys, which could be manipulated by electric-powered controls, he said.
Steering systems are also a candidate for change. Auto designers would have new flexibility if the power steering did not have to be connected to the driveshaft by a belt, he said.
Mr. Verbrugge said that these innovations might turn up first in Japanese models, where fuel economy was more important.
Lead-acid has a significant advantage, though: its cost. The business is so competitive that profits are measured in pennies per battery, industry executives say. In a new car, the lead-acid battery costs the auto company only about $25, said John R. Wallace, director of environmental vehicles at Ford. A nickel metal-hydride battery would cost more than $100 extra, he said, and at that price it would be hard to justify.
Battery storage capacity is often measured in kilowatt-hours. One kilowatt-hour is the amount of electricity needed to keep ten 100-watt bulbs lit for an hour; it sells at retail for about 8 cents.
"Your laptop battery costs thousands of dollars per kilowatt-hour of capacity," Mr. Wallace said. "An electric vehicle battery of today costs maybe $1,000 a kilowatt-hour. Your S.L.I. battery costs 50 bucks."
Mr. Stempel, though, predicted that prices would fall with mass production. And if auto makers choose S.L.I. batteries using nickel metal-hydride for even a small part of their production, he said, the demand would drive output high enough to allow automation and other cost-cutting technologies. That, he said, could make a beefed-up battery in a gasoline car a stepping stone to a purely electric car that would be more affordable than those now on the market. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ENER (NASDAQ) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS423610 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT, WIRING SUPPLIES & RELATED EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); ENERGY CONVERSION DEVICES INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; BATTERIES COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); LEAD (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); GASOLINE (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L ROBERT C STEMPEL (69%); MARK W VERBRUGGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



530 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: 4 MORE AMERICANS OUSTED -- Immigration authorities have ordered four more Americans to leave and not return for two years, accusing them of violating tourist visas by taking part in a political march in Chiapas state. Two of them, Jeanne Marie Simonelli, 51, a professor at the State University of New York at Oneonta, and Katherine O'Donnell, 47, of Hartwick College, also in Oneonta, denied that they had joined the march and said they would try to reverse the orders. Julia Preston (NYT)
 
MEXICO: GOVERNOR INTERROGATED -- The Governor of Quintana Roo, Mario Villanueva Madrid, was questioned at the governor's palace for 10 hours by Mexico's special prosecutor for drug crimes, Mariano Herran Salvatti. The governor is a target of an investigation into cocaine trafficking through the Yucatan peninsula. Sam Dillon (NYT) 

MEXICO: ESCAPEE EXTRADITED -- Mexico has extradited to the U.S. a Mexican citizen who escaped in 1995 from a federal prison in California, where he was serving a prison sentence for drug crimes. Defense lawyers sought to keep Tirso Angel Robles in Mexico, challenging the U.S.-Mexico extradition treaty, but a judge ruled against them and Mr. Robles was handed over to marshals in Dallas. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
GUATEMALA: JUDGE QUITS BISHOP'S CASE -- A judge presiding over an investigation into the killing in 1998 of Bishop Juan Gerardi has resigned, saying he received threatening phone calls. Judge Henry Monroy, left, became the second judge in less than three months to quit the case of Bishop Gerardi, who was slain after filing a report blaming the military and pro-Government death squads for most of the human rights violations in Guatemala's 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996. (AP)
 
HAITI: NEW GOVERNMENT FORMED -- President Rene Preval created a 15-member Cabinet by decree in a move intended to end nearly two years of political impasse. The new Government will be able to organize elections in a country where allegations of fraud have prompted most parties to boycott the electoral process. Mr. Preval dissolved Parliament on Jan. 11. (AP)
 
EUROPE
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: PEACE MOVE BY PREMIERS -- Prime Ministers Tony Blair of Britain and Bertie Ahern of Ireland are expected to intervene in the dispute over disarmament of the I.R.A. The Irish Foreign Minister, David Andrews, said the two leaders would travel to Belfast next week to work on a compromise in the dispute, which is delaying the transfer of home-rule powers from London to the new Northern Ireland Assembly. James F. Clarity (NYT)
 
SWITZERLAND: BANK'S HOLOCAUST STUDY -- A study by the Swiss National Bank said its officials ignored Allied warnings that they were buying looted Nazi gold and continued as Hitler's biggest gold purchaser. The report said the bank's directors "misjudged the political, legal and moral aspects" of its transactions. Although the bank has contributed about $70 million to needy Holocaust survivors, it has refused to help finance the $1.25 billion settlement agreed to by the largest Swiss banks. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
GERMANY: EXTREMISM ON RISE -- The Government said right-wing extremism is on the rise and reaching more people through the use of the Internet and skinhead rock groups that perform songs with racist lyrics. Germany's anti-extremist watchdog group, the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, said the number of far-right supporters had increased 11 percent in 1998 to 53,600, including 8,200 people described as violent, an increase from 7,600 in 1997. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA: CURBS ON PAKISTANIS EASED -- India has eased visa restrictions for seven categories of Pakistanis, including members of Parliament, provincial legislators, editors, judges and cricket and field hockey players. Multiple entry visas will be granted, and visa holders will be excused from the customary requirement of reporting to the police. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
PHILIPPINES: TROOP PULLOUT -- The military began withdrawing troops after Communist guerrillas ordered a cease-fire so that a captured army general and four other officers can be released to the Government. Though the Communist insurgency has faded, it continues to conduct small raids. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
PAKISTAN: ACTIVIST RETURNS AWARD -- Pakistan's most respected human rights activist, Abdul Sattar Edhi, 72, said he would return a top national civil award in disgust at the poverty and hunger in his country. Mr. Edhi was awarded the Nishan-i-Imtiaz in 1982 for his services to society through the creation of the Edhi Welfare Trust. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
ALGERIA: PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN -- Algeria's seven presidential candidates opened a three-week campaign for the April 15 election, all promising to pull the country out of seven years of civil strife, and rescue the economy. (Reuters)
 
SIERRA LEONE: DEATH TOLL GROWS -- At least 6,350 people killed in fighting in January in Freetown, Sierra Leone, have been buried in mass graves, the authorities said. In February the U.N. put the figure at 5,000 in a report on fighting between rebels and West African forces defending the Government. A Health Ministry official said the higher figure followed the exhumation and reburial of bodies from makeshift graves. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAQ, SYRIA: NEW TIES -- Iraq and Syria, which broke off diplomatic relations in 1980 at the start of the Iran-Iraq war, are taking steps toward normalization by opening interest sections at the Algerian embassies in each other's capitals, diplomats in Baghdad said. (Agence France-Presse)
 Compiled by Terence Neilan
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRELAND (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (52%); 

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRELAND (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); SENTENCING (74%); LITIGATION (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); COCAINE (69%); CIVIL WAR (68%); LAWYERS (67%); PRISONS (67%); ELECTION LAW (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); HOLOCAUST (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: BERTIE AHERN (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



531 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: February Pace of Home Resales Remained Near January Record

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25

 BODY:
Home resales hovered close to a record level in February, topping an annual rate of five million sales for the third consecutive month as affordable mortgages and plentiful jobs stoked demand.
Resales fell four-tenths of a percent last month, to an annual rate of 5.02 million houses, after rising to a record pace of 5.04 million units in January, the National Association of Realtors said. Sales in the South last month were the highest ever, while sales elsewhere were near their record highs. 
 That is good news for appliance makers and retailers who cater to the surging housing market. "If you look at this economy, it's just like a big battleship, just forging forward," said Bill Beer, president of Maytag Appliances, a division of the Maytag Corporation. "We don't see anything in our business to indicate a downturn."
In part that is because the nation's 4.4 percent unemployment rate is close to a 29-year low. First-time claims for state jobless benefits fell 10,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 289,000, keeping the four-week average near a 10-year low, the Labor Department said. Jobless claims have stayed below 300,000 for eight consecutive weeks, the longest such stretch since an 18-month run that ended in December 1973.
The Labor Department also said today that the total number of people on the unemployment rolls decreased by 23,000, to 2.154 million in the week ended March 13.
For the year so far, initial claims have averaged 306,000 and the total jobless rolls -- so-called continuing claims -- have averaged 2.246 million. Both figures are lower than the averages for all last year. Initial claims averaged 318,000 in 1998 and continuing claims averaged 2.256 million.
"The economy is operating with very little labor turnover," said Carol Stone, an economist at Nomura Securities Inc. in New York. "Labor conditions remain exceptional."
Home resales have also been aided by low mortgage rates. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell this week to 6.98 percent from 7.01 percent a week ago, Freddie Mac said. That is the second consecutive weekly decline and the first time in four weeks the rate has slipped below 7 percent.
Home resales are a closely watched gauge of economic growth because previously owned houses account for about 85 percent of all homes on the market, and home buyers are big consumers of furniture, appliances and other household goods. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); WHIRLPOOL CORP (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; MORTGAGES EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (73%); RETAILERS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



532 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Gleaning Inspiration From a Student's Death

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
EMOTION comes easily to Michael Fabricant, a professor at the Hunter College Graduate School of Social Work. So he makes no effort to blink back tears when he speaks of Amy Watkins, a 26-year-old student with a radiant smile and a boundless future who was killed early this month just blocks from her home in Brooklyn.
Mr. Fabricant had taught Ms. Watkins in her first course last summer, on homelessness, and also in her last, a 13-student seminar in which young social workers integrate their field work, research and classroom learning in a project that is the crowning achievement of their graduate studies. 
 Ms. Watkins's project was to have been a paper exploring the process of community building, based on her work with battered women at a Bronx settlement house. The women had come together, under Ms. Watkins's tutelage, to design a mural. The question she hoped to answer, Professor Farbricant said, was how to sustain the connection when the mural was finished, how to use art to forge lasting bonds.
The seminar continues, with one chair empty and the other 12 students "powerfully shaken," Mr. Fabricant said. Social workers are not strangers to death, be it the kind that comes gently at the end of a long life or the kind that savagely snatches the young. But losing a friend is fundamentally different.
"Processing the experience," to use the lingo of his profession, is what Mr. Fabricant is helping the students do.
"For all of us, myself included, pain can be mobilizing or demoralizing," the 50-year-old professor said. "It can lead to withdrawal and cynicism or it can lead to passion. The question is what the pain inspires and promotes."
Ms. Watkins's classmates, especially the women, are frightened in the wake of her stabbing death, not far from an all-night grocer on Flatbush Avenue where she had bought dinner on the way home from the settlement house.
And they must make peace with that fear, Mr. Fabricant said, to continue the work that takes them into some of the city's most dangerous corners.
He reminds them that Ms. Watkins, a Kansas native, was so on fire with her profession that she traversed her adopted city fearlessly. But she encountered her killer on the quiet streets of Prospect Heights, not in the housing projects of the Bronx. And there are lessons in that about chance, courage and the impulse to meet the world with an open heart.
"I think each of us in our own way live lives that pretend a kind of control, a kind of permanence that we don't really have," Mr. Fabricant said, from the cozy confines of his office at Hunter. "This reminds us that control is an illusion, so every moment matters. There are lessons in Amy's life. And it is that that we come back to as we discuss this event. She lived every moment, kindly and generously. She was present."
THERE are lessons, too, in Mr. Fabricant's life, which he describes in words that might sound cloying or pious if he were not a teacher and social worker. "You become what you do," he said, telling the story of how he and his wife wound up in Elizabeth, N.J., a poor, largely minority community of 110,000, 20 years ago when they were "co-oped out of Park Slope."
Mr. Fabricant was born and grew up in Coney Island, the son of a truck driver and a waitress. He studied social work at the University of Pittsburgh and received his advanced degrees at Brandeis, then followed his academic mentor to the Community Service Society, one of New York City's old-line social agencies.
Five years out of Brandeis, Mr. Fabricant won a faculty position at Hunter, a nationally acclaimed school of social work. He teaches both masters and doctoral students while writing books -- about juvenile delinquency, homelessness, the economics of social service work and the settlement house movement.
Mr. Fabricant looks every bit the academic, with a graying mustache, a soulful gaze, wire-rimmed glasses and a corduroy work shirt. "This is where I'm paid," he said. "I live in the academy. But what animates me is outside the academy. In some sense I have a double life."
With his wife, Betsy, a onetime filmmaker and now the director of a camp for blind and disabled adults, Mr. Fabricant has made involvement in his own community his second calling. He is active in the Elizabeth Coalition to House the Homeless and St. Joseph's Social Service Center and calls the hard pressed city "a real gift to us."
Mr. Fabricant's daughter, Nicole, a senior at Mount Holyoke College, went to a public high school where half the students lived at or below the poverty line. His son, Matt, a high school senior, goes to St. Benedict's Prep in Newark, where the monks call him "our Jewish brother."
Mr. Fabricant says that he struggles "toward a unitary quality" in life and work, as he has urged his students, Ms. Watkins among them. "It is very important to me to be a role model not only in words, but in action," he said, "not only in the choices I make about work, but where I live and send my children to school and how I relate to the community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Fabricant's student, Amy Watkins, was killed this month. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUNTER COLLEGE

ORGANIZATION: HUNTER COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%); HOMELESSNESS (56%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; FABRICANT, MICHAEL (PROF); WATKINS, AMY MICHAEL FABRICANT (96%); AMY WATKINS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



533 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Nasdaq Approves Rule on Trading Halts

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
As the "anything.com" stocks continue to gyrate on the Nasdaq stock market, the market's governing board approved a rule yesterday that would allow officials to halt trading in a stock in response to market news or rumors, even if the officials cannot immediately reach the company's executives.
The rule change and other steps intended to rein in excesses among day traders and cut the fees that individuals pay for real-time stock quotations were endorsed by the board of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which operates both the Nasdaq market and the American Stock Exchange. The Securities and Exchange Commission must still rule on the proposed regulations. 
 The action on trading halts, while significant for investors who might be blindsided by rumor-driven trading, did not go nearly as far as most Nasdaq market makers had hoped. Indeed, a far more sweeping proposal was withdrawn without a vote, an N.A.S.D. spokesman said.
That proposal, which had the support of Frank G. Zarb, the association's chairman, would have allowed Nasdaq to halt trading at times of extreme volatility in individual stocks -- a step that had been strongly resisted by institutional investors who fear that it would allow Nasdaq market makers, the professional trading firms that buy from sellers and sell to buyers to insure a liquid market, to pull back from trading just when they were most needed to maintain orderly markets.
"We're going to continue to look at ways to address the issue of volatility," said Michael D. Jones, chief administrative officer of the association. "Trading halts alone are not the way, in and of themselves, to deal with the issue, but volatility is something we're going to continue to be aggressively looking at."
The N.A.S.D. board also voted to seek comment from its members and the public on a proposal that would affect day traders, investors who seek to profit from the daily movements in stock prices. The proposal, if approved, would require brokers to clearly advise customers about the risks of day trading and the dangers of trading with money that is borrowed or is essential to the investor's economic security.
For example, the disclosure statement proposed by the board warns customers against trading with money that represents "retirement savings, student loans, second mortgages, emergency funds, funds set aside for purposes such as education or home ownership, or funds required for current income."
The proposal would also require brokers to consider an investor's financial circumstances and investment experience and "make a threshold determination" that day trading is an appropriate strategy for that investor before opening an account.
The board also approved a one-year pilot program that would respond to the demands of on-line brokers by cutting the price that Nasdaq charges investors for real-time stock quotations. Individuals now pay either a penny for each quote or a flat monthly fee of $4; the pilot project would cut both fees in half. Market data supplied by the New York Stock Exchange and the nation's other stock exchanges are more expensive and would not be affected by the N.A.S.D.'s steps yesterday.
On the more technical front, the board adopted rules, subject to S.E.C. approval, intended to clear some of the trading bottlenecks that have arisen in the feverish realm of Internet stocks. Those bottlenecks occur when market makers are posting "buy" prices that are slightly higher than the "sell" prices, a reversal of the normal price relationships on Nasdaq. Such reversals temporarily block trading in the affected stocks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITIES TRADING (91%); APPROVALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ONLINE TRADING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BONDS (72%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (61%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); SECOND MORTGAGES (60%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



534 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
On Killing Serbs

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
For awhile, some days or weeks, many Americans will put aside their puzzlement about President Clinton's decision to go to war against Yugoslavia because of Kosovo. They will support the war because "our troops are out there" and because only a person whose soul has died can stand the pictures of refugees and bodies without wanting to stop the carnage.
Then, if the air bombardment goes on, it will occur to them that down there on the ground getting killed are people called Serbs who never raised a finger against us, were once our allies and long to be allies again. That might lead them to say, how in Heaven do we stop killing these people? 
 The man who can help us do that is Slobodan Milosevic. And right now the only way he can do that is to agree to surrender in the civil war with the Kosovars by allowing them to secede after three years from Serbia.
That would make him a traitor not only to himself but to the Serbs. They think of Kosovo not as the property of the Albanian Muslim majority there, but as the spiritual, historic and religious center of all Serbia, particularly the 69 percent Christian population.
I do not get emotional about the history of Kosovo. I am not a Serb. Serbs do. They lost a great battle to Turkey there in 1389. As a reporter in Eastern Europe I learned that to Serbs the loss was not the end but the beginning of their hopes for national resurrection and so a holy place.
Serbs are as likely to give up Kosovo willingly because the Albanians want it as Israelis are to give up Jerusalem because the Arabs want it.
NATO is supposed to be for defense of its members. But it now attacks non-member Serbia, after a pompous declaration from its Spanish head, because Serbia is led by a louse. Daydream: My old Serb friend Milovan Djilas stands in Geneva and orders the Spanish to get out of rebellious Basque territory.
The attack may bring about Serbian surrender on Kosovo, but not for long. Serbs' passion for another rebirth will rise again.
They will target the NATO occupation force, particularly the U.S. contingent, with guns and hate. Can we live with that? It was not guns but the hate of virtually the entire population that drove us quickly out of Somalia.
President Clinton talks about "credibility." In Kosovo we are supposed to be fighting for human rights. But he inflicted an ever-bleeding wound on America -- destroying any American human rights policy faintly worthy of the name.
Mr. Milosevic has a dictator's essential quality. He is ever ready to kill his own people to maintain and keep power. In that he is no different from Saddam Hussein, or Muammar el-Qaddafi, or Iran's ruling ayatollahs, or the Sudanese leaders who murder and enslave countrymen, particularly Christians and animists -- or the murderers' bench known as the Chinese Politburo.
But Mr. Clinton let Saddam destroy the U.N. commission that was all that stood between Iraq and weapons of mass destruction. The U.S. is about to "punish" Libya for its role in the destruction of Pan Am 103 -- by trying two of Colonel Qaddafi's Libyan officers. He disallows court questions about his own part in the bombing!
The Politburo? With his own hand, and in his own act of betrayal of the Politburo's vast gulags of prisoners in China and Tibet, Mr. Clinton "de-linked" human rights from trade -- do as you wish, as long as you trade with us.
In the cases of China, Libya, the Sudan and the ayatollahs, military action was not asked for by us human rights folk -- just the use of economic pressure against the dictators, and against those allies who double-cross us and the prisoners by snapping up the trade we lost.
Mr. Clinton solemnly tells Americans that we may lose men and women in Kosovo. But he was not willing to lose any trade with China.
When other Americans say the war against Yugoslavia is moral, I am moved to think hard. When Mr. Clinton talks about it I am moved to nausea.
And don't tell me there are no solutions. First tell the Kosovars they can have autonomy but that we are not going to kill Serbs and Americans for Kosovo's independence.
Then, at last, give utmost political and financial support to all those Serbs who will not give up Kosovo as part of their heritage, but would give up Slobodan Milosevic tomorrow if we helped them -- early tomorrow. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (79%); SUDAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (79%); SUDAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); REFUGEES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



535 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Off In Advance of Next Week's Fed Meeting

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities sagged yesterday as market participants awaited next week's meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee.
The yield on the 30-year bond was up 5 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 5.58 percent, from 5.53 percent on Wednesday. Its price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 2 3/32, to 96 7/32. 
 Most investors were also waiting for fresh signs that the economy was indeed slowing before making a stronger commitment to buy government securities. The rally in the stock market also meant that some cash found its way out of Treasuries and into the corporate debt and equity markets. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 169.55 points, finishing at 9,836.39
A heavy supply of competing paper also applied pressure to Treasury securities, as Citigroup and Mexico led a pack of borrowers to the public debt market. Corporations and other borrowers have been offering higher yields than Treasuries have been offering on new debt, and this week's sales showed decent demand, according to some traders.
Mexico sold $1 billion in global bonds yesterday through Morgan Stanley Dean Witter with a 9.75 percent coupon at a price to yield 449 basis points more than Treasuries. Citigroup is expected to price a two-part global bond deal today: $750 million each in 5-year and 10-year maturities. Salomon Smith Barney is the lead underwriter.
Anthony Chan, managing director and chief economist for Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio, said, "Perhaps the only consolation that the credit markets can derive at present is that a few fundamental factors should continue to lessen some of investors' greatest fears." Looking toward Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, he said it was unlikely "that policy makers will do anything to rock the boat,"especially given the possibility that the military action against Yugoslavia could have a negative impact on consumer sentiment.
With investors alert for any signs that the economy is slowing or that inflation is picking up, there has been little to change expectations.
Economic reports yesterday offered renewed signs of economic strength. For the seventh consecutive week, movement in initial unemployment claims kept the four-week moving average in claims below 300,000.
Although sales of existing homes were down somewhat, Mr. Chan said, they were not soft enough relative to expectations to indicate that the housing sector would put a damper on economic growth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CITIGROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); PRICES OF TREASURY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES OF TREASURY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ANTHONY CHAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



536 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Riders' Group, In a Report, Gives Buses Low Marks

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Amid a huge increase in demand for public transportation, the buses in New York City Transit's overtaxed fleet are bunching up, slowing down and providing more erratic service, according to a report released yesterday by a transit advocacy group.
"Bus service is poor, with many riders suffering long waits, elbow-in-the-ribs crowding, missed appointments and frayed nerves," said the Straphangers Campaign in its annual "State of the Buses" report, which looked at 1998 performance data for 40 major bus routes as recorded by New York City Transit. 
 The report underscored the down side of what has widely been regarded as a renaissance of public transit across the city, stimulated by the strong economy, a tourism boom and such rider inducements as the unlimited-ride Metrocard.
Bus bunching, in which schedules are clogged by buses lining up at bus stops, worsened during the year on 36 of the 40 routes, the report said, and on-time performance worsened on 23 of the routes. The report recommended a swift expansion of the city's bus fleet and tougher enforcement of traffic laws, particularly in keeping designated bus lanes clear of parked cars.
Officials at New York City Transit, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority subsidiary responsible for buses and subways, said the report's findings reflected the difficulty of staying atop the big increase in demand for service.
Although ridership has shot up throughout the city's public transportation system -- 1.83 billion passengers boarded a bus or subway last year, an increase of 9 percent from 1997 -- bus ridership soared more than 15 percent, compared with a 6 percent increase on the subways. Transit officials attributed the increase on buses to the free transfers provided with Metrocards, which encourages those who rarely used buses to do so, even for short rides.
"New York City Transit has been experiencing one of the largest increases in bus ridership ever experienced, and we have been adding a record amount of service," said Al O'Leary, a spokesman for the transit agency, which operates 4,000 buses.
Since late 1996, when a large bus procurement plan was approved, Mr. O'Leary said, New York City Transit has added more than 400 buses, and more than 1,000 more are scheduled for delivery by mid-2000.
"The way the system works is that we don't have a crystal ball, and we have to see where ridership is increasing before we add service," Mr. O'Leary said. He added that the torrid growth in bus ridership last year appeared to be slowing, and that "when it does, we will have a better grasp on where service needs to be added."
Gene Russianoff, staff attorney for the Straphangers Campaign, said yesterday in an interview that New York City Transit's problems in keeping its newly popular buses on schedule was complicated by the volume of traffic clogging city streets.
The traffic -- including trucks, vans, privately operated tour buses and a logjam of private cars -- is reflected in several government measures. Recent surveys by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the city's Department of Transportation and other agencies have shown that the volume of traffic entering Manhattan via the city's tunnels and bridges showed increases ranging from 3 percent to 15 percent last year.
As might be expected, according to the Straphangers Campaign report, the jump in traffic has created greater congestion at bus stops and in the 27 miles of "red zone" bus lanes where cars and trucks are barred during rush-hour traffic.
"The city simply does not provide enough exclusive bus lanes," Mr. Russianoff said, "does not adequately enforce the ones in place, and has not cracked down on private vehicles illegally using bus stops as personal parking spots."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gene Russianoff, the staff attorney for the Straphangers Campaign, held a news conference yesterday in front of M.T.A. headquarters. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STRAPHANGERS CAMPAIGN; NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); STRAPHANGERS CAMPAIGN (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRAPHANGERS CAMPAIGN; NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY STRAPHANGERS CAMPAIGN (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BUSES MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); APPROVALS (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); INTERVIEWS (60%); TOURISM (55%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J AL O'LEARY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



537 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
White House Pushing Deal With Beijing

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25

 BODY:
In a series of closed-door negotiations and back-channel messages, the United States and China are racing to reach a broad accord in the next two weeks that could pave the way for Beijing to enter the World Trade Organization, even as the White House fears the effort could be torpedoed by Congress.
By all accounts the two sides are making enormous progress after years of stalemate. China, one American participant in the talks reports, has offered "more market-opening concessions in the past three weeks than in the past three years." 
 Even as bombs were falling in Kosovo, President Clinton met his top economic advisers late this afternoon to review the status of the negotiations, according to Administration officials.
Only a few weeks ago the White House was pressing for a deal as a diplomatic triumph to accompany the April visit of China's Prime Minister, Zhu Rongji. Now, however, the Administration is riven with second thoughts.
America's assent for China to join the trade organization will require at least the indirect approval of Congress, with the amendment of the law that currently requires an annual renewal of China's trade status. In the current atmosphere on Capitol Hill, where investigations into China's suspected nuclear thefts are intertwined with long-running concerns over human rights, Tibet, Taiwan and a soaring trade deficit, many of the President's advisers fear Mr. Clinton could be forced to expend scarce political capital on a losing battle.
"For the longest time the problem was that the Chinese wouldn't give," one participant in the talks said this week. "Now the Chinese are giving -- not enough, but they clearly want a deal -- and the White House has cold feet."
In public, Administration officials say they are committed to getting China into the trade group -- if the Chinese make politically and economically painful concessions. Allowing a far greater range of foreign investment in China, sharply reducing protective tariffs and agreeing to open markets to imports of everything from cars to wheat could remake the way the world does business with the Chinese. But major sticking points remain, including whether China will loosen restrictions on foreign insurance companies to sell policies in China, open the telecommunications and financial services markets to wide-scale foreign investment, and reduce or eliminate China's requirements that outsiders deal through state-run companies.
For Mr. Zhu and President Jiang Zemin, the negotiation has enormously high stakes, especially at a time of economic slowdown and surging unemployment in China. Mishandled, a rapid opening of the market to foreign competition could worsen China's precarious economic condition. But failing to strike a deal has costs -- in prestige and in foreign confidence that China is committed to economic changes that will aid foreign investors.
At a White House meeting last weekend, however, it became clear that the political calculus was equally complex here. President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, has pushed hardest to win a deal, viewing it as the only area in which Washington and Beijing can achieve a major diplomatic victory in the waning years of the Clinton Presidency, senior Administration officials say. The United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin have also pressed for a deal, though only on the condition that the Chinese make significant concessions that will insulate the agreement from political attack in Congress, according to officials who have attended the meetings.
But Mr. Clinton's domestic advisers, including the White House chief of staff, John Podesta, and the head of the National Economic Council, Gene Sperling, now worry no deal will satisfy the growing chorus of China critics in Congress, some of the participants in the internal debate say. "Before the latest China controversies we needed a good deal," one senior official said, "and now we need a spectacular one."
Others in the White House worry that a battle over China policy in Congress would unite liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who, for different reasons, bitterly oppose a trade deal with Beijing.
Mr. Sperling, playing down the reports of dissent, insisted in an interview that "there is unanimous agreement that if China were to meet the high test we are setting for them, then we should go forward."
But the question of whether China has given enough will be a matter of interpretation.
"The test will come from the reaction of the business community," Ms. Barshefsky, who is considering traveling to China this weekend to push a deal along, said on Wednesday. "If the agricultural community, or the telecommunications industry says it's inadequate, then its inadequate. It's that simple."
But in China's 13-year effort to join the organization that sets global trading rules and arbitrates disputes, nothing has proved simple. The next two weeks seem bound to be marked by brinksmanship, economic calculation and geopolitical strategizing that may have to do more with politics in both nations than with trade.
For China, the immediate advantages of joining the trade organization are modest. There is the issue of national prestige, fueled by the fear that Taiwan might be admitted before the mainland. China would get a measure of protection against unilateral trade sanctions imposed by the United States or other nations. Beijing would be able to challenge American trade restrictions in front of trade organization judges.
Most of China's 1.2 billion people work in agriculture, so the arguments over opening the market to agricultural imports has been particularly bitter. And China has sought to replicate Japan's strategy in automobiles and industrial machinery: import technology, but restrict foreign competition until a domestic industry flourishes.
China's strategy until recently was to promise market openings, but insist on lengthy transitions -- up to 15 years, for example, to open the auto market fully. Gradually, Mr. Zhu has switched course, promising most market openings within three to five years. And in the last few days, China has also offered to allow foreign companies to hold up to 35 percent of telecommunications companies. Until now, foreigners have been barred from investing in telephone companies. The United States is insisting on 50 percent foreign investment.
But as Washington's nervousness increases, so does the pressure on Ms. Barshefsky to deliver an impressive deal -- or no deal.
"As compared to six months ago, or even three weeks ago, the deal has to be more bulletproof," said Nicholas R. Lardy, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and one of the country's leading scholars on the Chinese economy. "There are people in Congress who don't want to know the details, because they are so angry about other things."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TIBET (92%); TAIWAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TIBET; TAIWAN; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TIBET (92%); TAIWAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); INSURANCE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



538 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: THE COMMANDER;
The NATO General Who Is Intimately Familiar With His Adversary

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, March 25

 BODY:
Wesley K. Clark, the four-star American general who as Supreme Allied Commander Europe is in charge of the powerful NATO air offensive against Serbia for its attacks against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, knows his adversary well.
Too well, perhaps, mused an allied diplomat, not an American, who said today that he thought that the general was intellectually the most impressive chief the alliance had ever had, but that he was fixated on the idea that force was the only language the Serb leadership understood. 
 General Clark, 54, arrived at that conviction through long experience with President, Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. It was Mr. Milosevic's refusal to accept a peace agreement for Kosovo that would involve 28,000 NATO peacekeepers that made the bombing inevitable, the general and other allied leaders say.
"We are going to systematically attack, disrupt, degrade, devastate and, ultimately, unless President Milosevic complies with the demands of the international community, we're going to destroy these forces, with their facilities," the general said in characteristically forceful language.
He was describing a bombing campaign that allied officials say could destroy the Yugoslav National Army as an effective fighting force.
He personified the battle, as generals often do. When reporting that two American F-15 fighters and a Dutch F-16 apparently shot down at least three Yugoslav MIG-29's in dogfights on Wednesday night, General Clark referred to the Yugoslav MIG's as "some of his most advanced and capable aircraft," with "his" referring not to an abstract enemy, but to Mr. Milosevic personally.
General Clark's short well-groomed gray hair and piercing eyes (he wears contact lenses) bespeak an intensity shown throughout his Army career over 30 years. His intimate familiarity with Mr. Milosevic and his thinking stems from the hundreds of hours that he spent with the Serbian leader in 1994 and 1995, when General Clark was Richard C. Holbrooke's military adviser on Mr. Holbrooke's quest as a special envoy to end the Bosnia war.
On one trips, three other members of their team were killed in an accident on the dangerous Mount Igman road to Sarajevo, forced to take that route by the Bosnian Serb refusal to guarantee their safety on a more direct one. General Clark rappelled down a steep mountainside to try to rescue the victims from their burning armored personnel carrier.
In the marathon negotiations that Mr. Holbrooke brokered in Dayton, Ohio, in November 1995, after Mr. Milosevic had abandoned the Bosnian Serb cause, General Clark oversaw the drafting of the military chapter of a pact that gave free rein to a NATO peacekeeping force in Bosnia. As senior NATO officer, he now leads that force, and the British commander of the similar force planned for Kosovo under the peace accord would report to him, too.
Was there a hint of exasperation in his remark that bombing Yugoslavia to make it willing to make peace was the culmination of a long -- in fact quite long -- planning process?
People who know him say General Clark is much too politically astute to express publicly any impatience with the long -- in fact quite long -- hesitation that President Clinton and other allied leaders showed in reaching the decision on force in Kosovo.
Unusually, General Clark had no command experience in Europe before Mr. Clinton put him in charge of the alliance's military establishment, as well as the 100,000 American troops stationed in Europe, in July 1997.
General Clark was director of strategic plans and policy on the Joint Staff at the Pentagon when Mr. Holbrooke drafted him for his missions in Bosnia. General Clark then went to Panama to take charge of the United States Southern Command for a year before taking up his NATO duties at Mons, Belgium.
The general and Mr. Clinton both grew up in Arkansas, and both were Rhodes Scholars at Oxford University in the 1960's, though they only grew to know each other well later.
Mr. Clinton avoided military service. But General Clark graduated first in his class from West Point in 1966 and received a master's in philosophy, politics and economics at Oxford before starting his rise through the ranks as a "tanker," or armor officer, in Vietnam, where he received the Silver Star and sustained four wounds.
"He is always totally focused on whatever he's doing," an old friend said. "When he skis, he wants to be first down the hill, and he has gone into every job he has ever had with incredible intensity. He has never had an easy job." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (76%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); OHIO, USA (76%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (70%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (66%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



539 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks Across the Board March Vigorously Upward

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks posted sharp gains across the board yesterday as investors reacted to a profit surge at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, a deal solidifying ties between America Online and Ebay, and an analyst's favorable report on Procter & Gamble. Even long-depressed stocks of smaller companies gained.
Stocks pushed higher through the day, with the rally in technology shares that began late Wednesday gathering momentum and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index doubling its gain in the final quarter hour to close ahead by 2.94 percent, the biggest gain since Feb. 11. Microsoft, the most valuable American company, soared 81 1/16, to 179 15/16, lifted by word that it had offered a plan to settle the Government's antitrust suit against it. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which had fallen for four consecutive days, surged 169.55 points, or 1.75 percent, to finish at 9,836.39, covering half the ground it needed at the opening yesterday morning to reach the elusive 10,000 mark that it touched briefly last week. The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index made a similar gain, rising 21.40 points, or 1.69 percent, to close at 1,289.99.
Procter & Gamble, up 5 1/8, to 100 1/2, and American Express, up 5 3/8, to 122 1/2, accounted for more than a quarter of the Dow's gain.
Procter & Gamble, which touched a record 100 15/16, was lifted by comments of Carol Wilke, who covers the company for Prudential Securities and met with its senior management Wednesday. She predicted that a global revamping, with details yet to be spelled out, would accelerate earnings growth, and she raised her price target for the stock to 115 from 100 over the next 12 months.
Small-company stocks, as gauged by the Russell 2000 index, did even better, with a surge of 2.23 percent, with investors seeming to seek value in this lagging sector. The Russell 2000 is still down 6.87 percent for the year; in contrast, the Nasdaq composite has gained 11.04 percent and the Dow industrials, 7.13 percent.
"See how quickly sentiment can shift," said Mary Farrell, a senior strategist at Paine Webber. "The rally is so broad, so across the board." Nonetheless, she cautioned against too much exuberance when the economy may have begun to slow. "It's hard to argue for a sustained upward move from here," Ms. Farrell said.
Overseas markets also contributed to the buoyancy on Wall Street. The main Tokyo index climbed 3.03 percent, and European markets were ahead by more than 1 percent. The Bovespa in Brazil, benefiting from an interest-rate cut, jumped 4.88 percent, to an eight-month high.
The rally in stocks also bucked a rise in interest rates traced by some analysts to an unexpected drop in the number of people making first-time claims for jobless benefits last week and a very small decline from January's record pace of home sales. The Federal Reserve has a monetary policy meeting on Tuesday.
Financial stocks were among yesterday's most prominent winners. Morgan Stanley jumped 5 1/2, to 103 7/8; Schwab, 6 1/8, to 90 1/2; Donaldson Lufkin, 4 15/16, to 65 1/4; Lehman Brothers 3 3/4, to 58 7/8; Citigroup, 2 7/8, to 63, and Knight/Trimark, 3 15/16, to 56 7/16.
Among computer-related stocks, gainers included America Online, rising 9 3/8, to 126 1/2; Ebay, 14, to 159 3/8; Amazon.com, 16 3/16, to 139 7/8; EMC, 5 3/16, to 124 1/16, and Cisco, 3, to 107 7/16. Intel, however, eased 1 5/16, to 117 15/16, and Micron Technology fell 4 9/16, to 47 7/16, on concern about demand for memory chips and a weak price climate.
"It seems like the worst is over, at least for right now," said Tim Grazioso, manager of Nasdaq trading at Cantor Fitzgerald, alluding to the market downdraft in which technology stocks were badly battered. He said that demand for personal computers seemed to be holding up relatively well and that he expected institutional buying of stocks before the quarter ends on Wednesday.
"There's a lot of money that still has to get into the market," Mr. Grazioso said, some of it fresh and some to be lured from the sidelines.
On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing issues led declining ones by a 19 to 11 ratio, the broadest advance since March 5. Still, 243 issues fell to 52-week lows while 142 made new highs; for 1999 alone, 27 made new highs and 77 had new lows.
Volume rose to 784.23 million on the New York Stock Exchange, from 762.76 million on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); AOL INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (54%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR TIM GRAZIOSO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



540 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: NEWS ANALYSIS;
In Russia, No Gloves But Also No Fists

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 25

 BODY:
As Yugoslavia's Ambassador to Russia, the elder brother of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic has done his best to drum up support for Yugoslavia in Moscow.
So far, though, Borislav Milosevic does not have much to show for it. 
 Russian officials have railed against the Western alliance in terms that recall the tensest days of the cold war, and an unruly mob protested at the American Embassy here today, screaming obscenities and pelting the building with bottles and paint.
But the Kremlin has been careful not to match its angry rhetoric with deeds. With the managing director of the International Monetary Fund set to visit Moscow this weekend to continue negotiations for a loan the Russian Government desperately wants, the Kremlin seems to have calculated that this is no time to escalate its quarrel with the West.
President Boris N. Yeltsin signaled as much today when he said that his aides had devised "extreme measures" to respond to NATO's attacks, but that the measures would be kept in reserve.
"We are above that," Mr. Yeltsin said. "On the moral level, we are superior to the Americans."
For a nation that waged a bitter and bloody war in Chechnya, a separatist region in southern Russia, the talk about moral superiority seemed somewhat out of place. But it is not easy for the Kremlin to explain its relative impotence to the Russian people.
As NATO began its second day of strikes, chauvinism and indignation were the primary weapons of Russia's public relations offensive.
The Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov, lambasted the bombing attacks as an American attempt to bully the world.
"The true aims are obvious," Mr. Ivanov declared at a news conference. "To impose on the world the political, military and economic dictate of the United States."
Gen. Anatoly Kvashnin, the chief of Russian general staff, gave a skewed military briefing, noting incorrectly that two NATO combat planes had been shot down and suggesting that NATO ground forces were poised to invade the Balkan nation, which the alliance denies.
Russia's actions have been far more measured. It recalled its representative to NATO and announced that it would not attend a NATO celebration next month in Washington, both largely symbolic steps. And Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov said today that the ratification of the START-2 treaty would be deferred -- but not necessarily killed.
One reason behind Russia's temperate response is its weakness, politically and militarily. Not even Belgrade has taken Moscow's appeals seriously.
Another is Russia's economic neediness, a fact driven home this week by the continued slide of the ruble, which fell to 26 rubles to the dollar today, from 22 last week.
After Mr. Primakov canceled his trip to the United States in midair upon news of the air strikes, the United States encouraged the I.M.F. director to go to Moscow. Russia is seeking a loan large enough to offset the $4.8 billion it owes the fund this year.
So this is no time for the Kremlin to test the West's patience.
At Yugoslavia's embassy, the gap between Russia's admonishments and actions seemed clear. Ambassador Milosevic, a dapper diplomat who said he had not talked to his brother since the NATO strikes began, thanked Moscow for its moral support.
Supplementing the Kremlin's public statements, thousands of Russians have called to offer their services, including one Russian army unit, according to an aide to the Ambassador.
Ragtag groups of volunteers, however, are unlikely to be of great help to the Serbian military, and Ambassador Milosevic said there were no plans to actually transport them to Yugoslavia.
But Yugoslavia is not receiving as much backing as it might.
Yugoslavia and Russia, for example, have a military agreement under which Moscow services Soviet-era military equipment -- an accord that has been shelved because of the United Nations sanctions. Yugoslavia says that Russia should no longer feel legally bound by the sanctions.
The Communists and Moscow's Mayor, Yuri Luzhkov, have urged the Kremlin to ignore the sanctions. But Mr. Primakov says Russia will continue to abide by them, at least for now.
At his embassy, Ambassador Milosevic sought to put the best face on the situation.
"The Russian response," he said hopefully, "is a process." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MOSCOW (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); RIOTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); SHOOTINGS (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (63%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



541 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As Brazil Devalued, Some Got Rich

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 25

 BODY:
While many Brazilians are fretting over the effects of currency devaluation, Roberto Ruhman is celebrating.
Mr. Ruhman, managing director of Banco Matrix, guided his bank to spectacular profits because of the Brazilian Government's decision more than two months ago to abandon a system that had kept the currency artificially high in value. 
 In January alone, Matrix almost quadrupled its earnings for all of 1998, thanks to its prescience in betting that the currency, the real, would fall.
"We seized the opportunity that existed for us to profit when the shift in exchange-rate policy arrived," Mr. Ruhman said.
Matrix, a well-known investment bank, is not alone. More than a dozen banks, some of them United States institutions such as J. P Morgan and Citibank, also had huge profits after the devaluation, according to preliminary figures from Austin Asis, a bank analysis firm. Chase Manhattan is at the top if the list, with earnings of about $150 million in January, more than double its net income in Brazil last year.
At a time when high interest rates and diminished foreign investment are crimping the economy, the banks' financial results have touched off a debate over the fairness of a system that has allowed a handful of big and rich institutions to profit while the population as a whole is suffering.
"As a citizen I feel indignant," said Renato Janine Ribeiro, a professor of political philosophy at the University of Sao Paulo. "And as a critic of the political system, I see this as a continuation of a trend in which the Government is being manipulated by a financial system without much responsibility."
The concentration of riches among the few is nothing new in Brazil, a nation of 165 million known for its skewed distribution of wealth. Although changes carried out by President Fernando Henrique Cardoso have improved things somewhat, the richest 10 percent of the population make an estimated 44 times what the poorest 10 percent do, in an economy where the per-capita income is roughly $250 a month, according to Government figures.
While some banks have come under scrutiny by left-wing members of Congress over accusations that they used inside information before the devaluation, it is clear that most banks profited legally, either by purchasing Government bonds linked to the value of the dollar throughout last year or by purchasing currency-futures contracts that helped insulate their exposure to the Brazilian currency.
"Any reasonable person knew there would be a change in currency policy and prepared for it," said Paul Bydalek, president of Atlantic Rating, a Brazilian bank rating company.
Brazil, which has the most complex financial system in Latin America, allows banks and other companies plenty of ways to profit in times of crisis, and not many of them involve traditional lending.
During the times of hyperinflation, for instance, banks prospered largely by investing in high-yield Government bonds. Today, most large banks maintain offices in tax havens like the Cayman Islands, where they can keep dollar-denominated accounts out of the sight of the central bank. Some of the country's larger banks have subsidiaries in Argentina, the United States or other countries, allowing them to spread their risk over several currencies.
Or, banks can buy and sell contracts on the Bolsa de Mercadorias e Futuros, the world's sixth-largest futures exchange, with 86 million contracts negotiated last year.
Not all banks amassed profits from the devaluation. Banco Fonte Cindam, a Rio de Janeiro-based investment bank, was sold to Banque Nationale de Paris earlier this month after it lost 25 million reais, or about $13 million, betting that the real's value would remain stable. Banco Boavista, which is part-owned by Credit Agricole of France and Grupo Espirito Santo of Portugal, opted for a large capital injection to cover losses in its investment funds. Banco Marka, another Rio de Janeiro investment bank with an active trading desk, suffered losses in the aftermath of the devaluation.
Nonetheless, some of Brazil's industrialists are upset over what they see as unequal treatment from the monetary authorities.
"With interest rates where they are, it's clear the Government is still not that concerned about the productive sector," said Fernando Bezerra, a senator from the state of Rio Grande do Norte and president of the National Industry Confederation, in a telephone interview.
Mr. Bezerra's complaint, although not new, has been given new life after Brazil's agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Under the accord, officials expect the gross domestic product to shrink as much as 4 percent this year, weakened partly by an 8 percent drop in industrial production. Domestic interest rates of more than 40 percent, combined with a scarcity of financing from abroad, have deeply wounded Brazilian industry, which suffered a 2.3 percent drop in production last year.
Despite the complaints about banks that were enriched by devaluation, there are advantages in having a healthy banking industry. As officials from Mr. Cardoso's Government have argued, the economy is better off without the type of banking crisis that has damaged developing economies like those of Russia, Indonesia and Thailand.
Since the start of the President's first term in 1994, the central bank has acted to ease the takeover of ailing banks by healthier ones. Foreign banking companies including HSBC Holdings, Banco Santander and ABN Amro acquired Brazilian banks with extensive retail operations, introducing new levels of competition. The central bank has sometimes financed these takeovers with its own funds.
Then, there is the discussion spurred by this latest example of Brazil's disparities. "We Brazilians are trying to understand what brings us wealth and what makes us poorer," said Nilton Bonder, a rabbi and author of "The Kabbalah of Money."
"We see an economy which is a sort of weakened system that allows things that could be immoral but are not illegal," he said. "It's as if an economy which should be a reality has been turned into a game."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; BANKS AND BANKING DEVALUATION (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (84%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); POLITICS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES) ROBERTO RUHMAN (62%); FERNANDO BEZERRA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



542 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Approves $460 Million Loan Installment for Indonesia

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund approved a $460 million loan installment for Indonesia today and increased its credit line to the Southeast Asian country by $1 billion as the recession there deepened and private creditors refused to invest in the country.
The approval came after a two-week delay by the Indonesian Government to close and seize banks that did not come up with workable reorganization plans. Last week, Indonesia closed 38 banks, seized seven and agreed to infuse capital into nine others. 
 This is the second increase by the I.M.F. in Indonesia's assistance program since the nation's currency, the rupiah, lost about 70 percent of its value in the last 19 months and short-term debt mounted. The country of 200 million people plunged into its worst recession in 30 years.
The extra I.M.F. money is designed to help Indonesia meet a shortfall in the budget and prevent millions more people from falling below the poverty line, living on less than $1 a day. As many as 20 million have already fallen below that point since the end of 1997.
The I.M.F. has lent Indonesia about $8.7 billion since it drew up a $41.5 billion rescue plan in November 1997 that was enlarged to $49 billion in July as the recession deepened. Now, the program will be about $50 billion.
During a brief meeting in Washington last month with Michel Camdessus, the managing director of the I.M.F., Ginandjar Kartasasmita, Indonesia's Finance Minister, requested additional I.M.F. aid to supplement the country's budget.
"They're going to need official assistance for quite some time," said Gregory Fager, director of the Asia-Pacific department at the Institute of International Finance Inc., which represents 275 financial institutions. Still, he said, you have to give Indonesia "pretty good marks on economic management over the past six months" as interest rates and inflation fell.
The I.M.F. says Indonesia's economy will hit bottom in the first half of the fiscal year that begins April 1.
Gross domestic product may begin a modest rebound in the second half of the fiscal year, leaving Indonesia with zero economic growth for the 12-month period. That compares with a 13.6 percent decline in G.D.P. in 1998 after the ouster of President Suharto and the collapse of the rupiah.
In all, Asia's weakened economies will take two to three years to recover as they grapple with bank reorganization and other changes, said Hubert Neiss, Asia Pacific director at the I.M.F.
That will likely lead to budget deficits for three to four more years as the countries try to bolster economic growth through spending.
"The large task of getting the recovery off the ground is still before us," Mr. Neiss said at a conference sponsored by Credit Suisse First Boston in Hong Kong on Wednesday.
That is especially evident in Indonesia, where the nation's hobbled banking system is riddled with nonperforming loans, as much as 75 percent of all loans.
Weighed down by decades of lax credit control and corruption, the Asian currency crisis tipped Indonesia's banking system over the edge as the country slid into recession.
Though the recent bank closings may help restore some confidence among investors after a series of delays and policy flip-flops, the cost of rebuilding the nation's shattered banking industry is staggering, as much as $60 billion, according to some estimates. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); SPONSORSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



543 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: The Stepchildren of Banking;
Efforts to Serve Low-Income Areas Appear to Sputter

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
Marilyn Vasquez quickly dismisses the notion that she would be better off using a bank. Local check cashers "don't ask for so much ID," said Ms. Vasquez, 20, a resident of the Bronx. "Banks are too much hassle."
She is not alone. Many people do not use banks, especially in low-income neighborhoods, citing inconvenience, high fees or a lack of branches nearby. But there is another reason: Banks often do not tell people that anyone can open a basic low-fee checking account. 
 More than one in eight families nationwide have no bank account, according to Government estimates. And while New York and New Jersey have broad-reaching "lifeline" laws requiring banks to offer low-cost accounts to anybody, few poor people take advantage of them. And similar laws in other states -- including Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Rhode Island and Vermont -- are even more limited.
Recent attempts to require low-cost accounts nationwide have been killed in Congress. This month, the House Banking Committee voted along party lines to exclude lifeline banking from a bill repealing the Glass-Steagall Act's barriers among the banking, securities and insurance industries. The Treasury Department, meanwhile, is working on a partial solution that would not require new legislation.
The middling success of low-cost checking in New York and elsewhere illustrates the difficulty of bringing the nation's poor into the banking mainstream. The banks' reluctance to promote the accounts has played a large role, but even those who say the laws are worthwhile cite other factors. Often, low-income people do not have enough identification to satisfy a bank, leaving no option but check cashers that charge fees. And some people face judgments, collections or other legal problems and do not want a financial record or simply have no money left after paying for basic needs.
"There was this naive notion that if we could just have low-cost checking accounts, everyone would put money in the bank," said John P. Caskey, a Swarthmore College economics professor and an expert on the financial habits of the poor. "Clearly that hasn't happened."
Such laws have "certainly had some incremental, positive effect," he said, but "the overall effect has been quite small."
Studies by consumer advocates have found that the poor can spend 4 to 10 times as much at check-cashing outlets as they would for basic accounts. But since New York enacted one of the toughest laws in the nation four years ago requiring banks to offer basic services to anyone for $3 a month, surprisingly few people have opened such accounts.
The state law says the most that banks can demand to open an account is $25 and that banks must keep the account open as long as a customer maintains a 1 cent minimum balance. It allows at least eight free withdrawals a month using checks or cash machines. For regular accounts, many large banks charge $9 or more a month, plus other fees, unless the customer carries at least a $1,500 balance.
"It's really sort of the hidden steal in banking in New York," said Russ Haven, legislative counsel at the New York Public Interest Research Group, a nonprofit research and advocacy organization. "Unfortunately, most consumers don't have any idea."
In a study last year, his group found that a third of bank employees did not mention low-cost options when customers asked about checking accounts. The group found that 4 of 10 banks posting information about account options did not include low-cost accounts, as required by state law. And calls to banks show they frequently emphasize higher-fee accounts and are often slow to mention -- and occasionally deny altogether -- that they offer low-cost accounts.
For certain, both New York and New Jersey residents have seen benefits. Regulators in New Jersey estimate that 700,000 residents now have low-cost accounts. But consumer advocates and researchers say the laws often have not helped many people they were intended for. Even New Jersey officials, who call their program a success, say the primary users are college students. They say they plan to push for more marketing in poorer areas.
A report published in a Federal Reserve Bank of New York journal last summer found that the laws had a limited impact bringing the working poor into banks and would not work better unless consumers were better informed.
"The banks are nightmares," said Bertha Lewis, head organizer for the Brooklyn chapter of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now. Commonly known as Acorn, the national group is pushing for improved lending in poor areas.
"You call branches," Ms. Lewis said, "and they don't know what you're talking about. There's no incentive for these banks to do this. This is the quietest law you never heard about."
Bankers say they comply with the law and defend their record of serving poor areas. Chase Manhattan says it has about 235,000 customers enrolled in low-cost accounts in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. About half of them live in low- or moderate-income neighborhoods -- the bank cannot say how many are actually low income -- and many of the rest are college students. Fleet Financial Group says it has about 50,000 lifeline customers in New York City and Long Island. Citibank, the banking arm of Citigroup, declined to give a number.
Michael P. Smith, the president of the New York Bankers Association, called the program a success, but he added that it "was never designed to be a cure-all."
In Washington, Treasury officials are putting final touches on a plan they hope will give more than six million recipients of Federal benefits without accounts the option of having checks deposited directly into a new type of account at banks, credit unions and savings associations.
Nationally, industry representatives say most banks offer some form of basic account. But the most attractive accounts for consumers are vanishing quickly: In 1997, just 3 percent of banks offered free checking, a sharp drop from the 14 percent that offered it two years earlier, according to the Federal Reserve. In New York, only one bank in 77 offered it.
Mandatory low-cost banking grew out of fears that rising fees, as well as branch closings that often follow bank mergers, would erode poor people's access to the banking system. Nationally, the number of banks, savings banks, savings and loans and credit union branches has dropped 4 percent in the last decade, according to Sheshunoff Information Services Inc., a research firm in Austin, Tex. In the same period, check-cashing outlets tripled to 7,000, according to industry estimates.
Indeed, the number of check-cashing stores has risen 11 percent in New York the last four years. And from 1994 to 1997, the value of checks cashed by outlets in New Jersey rose by one-fifth, to $3 billion.
But even with more check cashers, New York regulators have proposed raising the cap on fees to 1.4 percent of the amount of the check from 1.1 percent. Consumer groups say the increase will harm many poor people. But state banking regulators, relying in part on a report commissioned by the industry that argues that operating profit margins at check-cashing outlets had dropped to 18 percent in 1996 after holding steady at 22.5 percent from 1988 to 1993, say the increase is warranted.
Dollar Financial Group, which operates more than 400 check-cashing outlets in the United States and Canada, estimates that only 30 percent of its customers have bank accounts. It says it provides an advantage important to many low-income people. "These customers rely on their current income to cover immediate living expenses," the company explains in its annual report, "and cannot afford the delays inherent in waiting for checks to clear."
But even many people who might be willing to put up with delays often have little choice. In the poorest urban areas, entire ZIP codes have no banks. In parts of the South Bronx, for example, no banks exist "for 15 blocks in any direction," said Matthew Lee, executive director of Inner City Press-Community on the Move, which has challenged bank mergers.
And even where there are banks, customers at check-cashing outlets often do not know they have a lower-cost option. "There are a lot of people working around here under the impression you can't get" an account without high fees, said Denise Gunn, standing outside a check-cashing store on 149th Street near Third Avenue in the Bronx.
Mr. Haven, the New York public-interest lawyer, said bounced-check fees, always a concern for those with low balances, scare some people off. That factor will grow, he said, if state regulators approve a proposal to eliminate the $15 cap on such fees at state-chartered banks.
Some people, meanwhile, want to keep their financial lives private because they face debt collectors or child-support judgments or are earning off-the-books income. Ivan C. Lafayette, a Democratic Assemblyman whose Queens district includes a large immigrant population, adds that a number of immigrants rely on check cashers because they are unfamiliar with banks.
Some low-income residents find it impossible to produce enough identification to open accounts. In contrast, a study by the Consumer Federation of America found that only 8 percent of check-cashing stores required more than one form of ID.
Banks say they do inform customers about low-fee checking and have taken steps to preserve low-cost services in poorer areas. Chase says it loses millions of dollars a year offering low-cost accounts, which by agreement with New York officials cost $4 a month, not $3, but allow 10 withdrawals monthly.
New York banking regulators say they do not keep statistics on low-cost accounts. Evaluations in 1996 and 1997 "indicated that some bank personnel may not have been fully familiar" with their low-cost accounts, officials found. Last year, they said, a majority of the banks evaluated were complying fully.
Some groups are trying alternatives. Professor Caskey of Swarthmore points to an experiment in Los Angeles, where Washington Mutual, a large savings association, and Strategic Actions for a Just Economy, a community group, will begin a pilot program this year with about 1,000 welfare recipients. They will have checks deposited directly into accounts that have no minimum balance or monthly fees and that allow five free money orders a month.
Many participants are already more comfortable with money orders, the group says, and since money orders are prepaid, there is no risk of bouncing checks. The organization will also issue identification cards, using food stamp cards, apartment leases, utility bills and other documents for verification.
Others have their own ideas about how to improve low-cost checking, including making disclosure mandatory when bank employees discuss account options with customers. But with the powerful American Bankers Association and Republicans in Congress opposed to national low-cost banking laws, the Treasury Department may wind up playing the biggest role.
As part of a conversion from paper checks to electronically transferred benefit payments -- expected to save $100 million annually -- Treasury officials hope that by summer banks will offer new limited accounts for millions. Donald Hammond, the Treasury Department's Fiscal Assistant Secretary, said the department is "very committed to using this transition to try to bring people into the banking mainstream."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite efforts to make bank accounts more accessible, Marilyn Vasquez of the Bronx prefers check-cashing outlets. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Bare-Bones Banking"
Many people, expecially in low-income neighborhoods, shy away from banks, blaming poor location, high fees and other obstacles to owning an account. Instead, they turn to check-cashing outfits, which have grown recently despite expensive transaction charges. To make the banking system more accessible, some states require banks to offer low-cost accounts.
 
ILLINOIS
STATE REQUIREMENTS FOR LOW-COST CHECKING ACCOUNTS: Free for anyone age 65 or older.
INTIAL DEPOSIT: $100 or direct-deposit sign-up
MONTHLY FEE: None
WITHDRAWALS PER MONTH: 10
 
MASSACHUSETTS
STATE REQUIREMENTS FOR LOW-COST CHECKING ACCOUNTS: Banks can offer them voluntarily in return for state Community Reinvestment Act credit.
INTIAL DEPOSIT: $10
MONTHLY FEE: $3
WITHDRAWALS PER MONTH: 8
 
NEW JERSEY
STATE REQUIREMENTS FOR LOW-COST CHECKING ACCOUNTS: Banks are required to offer low-fee checking accounts.
INTIAL DEPOSIT: $50
MONTHLY FEE: $3
WITHDRAWALS PER MONTH: 8
 
NEW YORK
STATE REQUIREMENTS FOR LOW-COST CHECKING ACCOUNTS: Banks are required to offer low-fee checking accounts.
INTIAL DEPOSIT: $25
MONTHLY FEE: $3
WITHDRAWALS PER MONTH: 8
 
OTHER STATE PROVISIONS
 
RHODE ISLAND
Basic savings accounts are free for people 17 and younger for accounts witha balance of $500 or less.
 
VERMONT
Regulators survey banks quarterly to insure that low-cost accounts are available. If they find that low-cost accounts are disappearing, the state can issue rules governing certain account charges.
 
MINNESOTA
Basic savings accounts are free with an average monthly balance of $50.
(Sources: State banking departments; Federal Reserve Bank of New York)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; URBAN AREAS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BANKING LAW (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FAMILY (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR MARILYN VASQUEZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



544 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1967 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Clash of Cultures, Pride and Passion

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: HAVANA, March 25

 BODY:
The 16-year-old boy in a New York Yankees cap lingered outside the field at the Provincial Academy of Baseball here, watching quietly with intense eyes as older players went through batting practice.
The boy, Geovani Poei, has attended special baseball schools since he was 7, and this summer he will face a grueling tryout for a slot at the academy, another rung on the long ladder toward the Cuban national team. He already thinks and talks like a professional ballplayer -- he is quick, for instance, to say he was rated the fourth-best shortstop for his age in the nation. 
 But if Poei embodies the Government's aggressive Soviet-era program to cultivate young talent, he is also emblematic of the Cuban people's stubborn love for baseball, a passion that seems to transcend politics. Poei said he worships major league players in the United States, even though his only contact with professional baseball has been through the newspapers or when he got to watch a bootleg tape of a playoff game that a friend smuggled into the country.
"I want to see them with my own eyes," he said.
On Sunday he just might, for the Baltimore Orioles are coming to Havana's Latinoamericano Stadium to play an exhibition game against a team of Cuban all-stars.
For the first time since the Cuban Revolution isolated this nation of baseball lovers from the United States 40 years ago, players at all levels and their fans are anticipating a game many think will at last test Cuba's baseball prowess against some of the best players in the world.
"It's a long time the Cubans have been waiting for this game," said Rafael Borges, a 70-year-old retired musician. "Because we like quality baseball."
Despite decades of hostile relations between Fidel Castro's Communist Government and the United States, Sunday's exhibition game has failed to stir up much nationalist sentiment here. Instead, it has tapped feelings that many Cubans say run deeper through their culture than Marxist ideology.
Most Cubans, after all, consider baseball to be their national sport, a game entwined in history with their struggle for independence from Spain and the birth of their nation. Nearly everyone here plays baseball starting at a young age, and talking about the game is considered almost a patriotic duty. Through years of economic hardship and political repression, it always has been a source of solace that the Cuban national team dominated baseball in the Olympics and in other international amateur tournaments.
In recent years, however, baseball has engendered other feelings of jealousy and uncertainty as several top players have defected to the United States to make fortunes on professional teams there -- Orlando Hernandez of the Yankees and Rey Ordonez of the Mets, for example. And for the first time, the Cuban national team, its strength sapped by defectors and the loss of other players who have gone to play in Japan and elsewhere, has faltered in some recent international competitions.
Against this backdrop, the game against the Orioles -- the Government has announced that the 55,000 expected to attend the game, including some young players, will be by formal invitation only -- has set off fierce debates among fans, who gather each afternoon on street corners, in cafes and under the tall trees in the Central Parque to argue over the intricacies of baseball.
 
They Start Young: 'It's in Our Blood'
A constant theme runs through the talk: No matter how well Cubans have fared against amateurs, the best players here have never had a chance to compete against the professionals in the United States, thus leaving many Cuban baseball lovers frustrated and wondering just how good their players are.
"We have a lot of talent here but it's not developed or matured," said Ariel Almeares, a 31-year-old tour guide. "The Cubans need to compete against better teams to get better."
On the streets of Havana, it is not hard to see why Cubans are among the best players in the world. Children use almost every empty space to play the game -- empty streets, public monuments, parking lots. Most use homemade bats and balls created from scratch with a bit of cork or stone wrapped with medical tape. Only a few have gloves.
But even in the lowliest sandlot games, the level of play is impressive. Nearly all the boys who gathered on a recent afternoon to play a pickup game in Antonio Maceo Park, beneath a massive monument to a revolutionary hero, had smooth, level swings and could make fluid, accurate throws on the run. Even the younger children knew how to turn double plays. "It's in our blood," Alexander Fajardo, 14, said. "It's the national sport."
Very few of the stars on the top teams in Cuba, however, come up from the streets. Soon after Castro abolished professional sports in 1961, the Cuban Government instituted a Soviet-style system of academies for children with athletic ability intended to cultivate Olympic athletes.
Grade school teachers and coaches spot children with baseball talent early and begin to channel the most talented at the age of 7 up through a series of academies where they receive intense sports training for half the day and study regular subjects in the afternoon.
By the time players finally reach the age of 22, they have either been eliminated or they have earned a spot on what is known as the national series, the Cuban equivalent of the major leagues. Each province has a team on that level drawn from its geographical area, supplied with talented athletes trained in the academies.
"The talent develops because they have the Soviet system," said Roberto Gonzalez Echevarria, a Yale professor who recently published "Pride of Havana: A History of Cuban Baseball." "It's a kind of funnel of success that leads to the major teams and the national team."
Though they are called amateurs, the players at the national level are professionals for all intents and purposes. They receive salaries for no-show jobs as physical therapists. The stars among them also receive cars, nice apartments and other benefits as gifts from a grateful state. Most important, however, they are treated like royalty by the population.
"They don't pay them for this," said Juan Brito, a 46-year-old taxi driver, "but they don't work for anyone else."
For some veterans who have reached the top of the Cuban system, the game with the Orioles promises to be a bittersweet exercise in what might have been if the political climate were different.
"We have to meet with a team of this quality to test ourselves," said the Industriales second-baseman, Juan Padilla, a 33-year-old who hit .322 this year. "They have great players. But here we also have great players."
 
Those Who Remain Face Many Obstacles
The players on the Havana Industriales in recent years have seen their colleagues defect to the United States and become millionaires in the big leagues, while they continue to earn less than $20 a month. Both Hernandez and Ordonez played for the Industriales.
German Mesa, considered the best shortstop in Cuba, was suspended for two years after he was accused of talking with agents in the United States about the possibility of playing for a professional team. He was only recently reinstated, and it remains to be seen if the Government will permit him to travel abroad again.
An agile fielder and a consistent hitter, he has been a star on the national team for years, consistently beating out Ordonez, who despite his mediocre batting is making $1.65 million this year.
Still, when asked in public if he feels any regrets, Mesa said that he is content with his lot in Cuba. "Everyone has to make his own decision," he said before a playoff game Wednesday night. "I play for the love of the people, for the warmth of the Cubans."
That legendary spirit of the Cuban fans was very much in evidence later that night at the semifinal playoff game between the Industriales and Isla de la Juventud. It was the final and deciding game of a four-of-seven-game series, and the winner would go on to play Santiago de Cuba for the championship in Havana.
A playoff game in Havana is like a carnival. An hour before the game started Wednesday, fans began filling the 50,000-seat Latinoamericano Stadium, packing its old-fashioned bleachers to the rafters. The fans paid three pesos, less than 50 cents, to enter. But it was a blood-roar that rose from the faded stadium when the Industriales loaded the bases in bottom of the first inning and rattled Isla's right-hander, Carlos Yanes.
Ricardo Rojas, a 39-year-old civil servant, watched the game with his 7-year-old son, Ricardo Jr., on his lap, because he could not afford two seats. He held the boy up to see the game, which the Industriales won, 3-2.
"The Orioles are a curiosity, but this is what matters," he said. "My father brought me here the same way I am bringing him."
Perhaps nothing underlines the game's enduring power here more than the informal gatherings of fans on the streets and in the central park, known as hot corners or tertulias. There, the frustration of living in a tightly controlled dictatorship, where political speech is censured, is relieved when fans begin to argue about baseball.
On the hot corners, one can find Yankees fans, Braves fans, Marlins fans, all desperate for information about their teams. Men argue about the relative merits of Mike Mussina and Roger Clemens, whom they have never seen pitch. They have gleaned what they can, they said, from scratchy radio broadcasts out of Miami, and from newspapers and bootlegged tapes of games brought in to the country by relatives. When they can, they loiter in hotel bars to catch a major league game on ESPN.
Some fans here also worry about what is seen as a slight decline in the quality of baseball here since the collapse of the Soviet Union sent the Cuban economy into a spiral. Since 1991, more than 30 top players have defected to seek fortunes in the United States, draining the baseball program of some important talents.
Morale among players also suffered two years ago, when, for the first time, the national team failed to win important tournaments in Japan and Spain, losing by humiliating scores like 11-2 and 16-6. The crisis plunged Cuban baseball into a funk and prompted a purge of Government officials who have run the sport for decades.
Since then, things have improved somewhat, fans said. The Government has been taking better care economically of its baseball stars, and the new Minister of Sports, Humberto Rodriguez, has reinvigorated the game, in part by demanding that the top players requalify for their teams annually.
"We have many people here who have the talent to get to the big leagues, but the politics won't let them get there," said Salvador Aguilar, a team official for the Industriales.
 
Skeptics Surround A Lone Defender
As the sun began to set in Central Park on Tuesday evening over the statue of Jose Marti, Cuba's national hero, a towering older man wearing a frayed shirt was defending his argument that the Cubans would win the exhibition game. The surrounding skeptics descended on him like wolves around a wounded buck.
"I'm telling you the Cuban team will get at least a tie," he screamed. "You say it's the big leagues. The top. But it could be a good game."
Another fan, a tall balding man, butted in, face to face with the defender of Cuba's team.
"Are you crazy?" he yelled. "They are better than us. They have better quality players. I am as Cuban as you are. I am as Fidelista as you are. But tell me, when did Cuba ever play against a team made up of the best players from Japan? Or from the United States? Tell me, when? When?"
The tall man could not answer. The answer, though, will come, at least in part, on Sunday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A baseball made in Cuba in the 1970's. Cuban baseball playoff games have a carnival atmosphere, as displayed above. Top, Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, takes a swing in a championship in 1977. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. D1); A boy from Baltimore, left (Reuters), hitting yesterday during a friendly sandlot game against local children in Havana. Above, Leo Durocher with Jackie Robinson before an exhibition game in Havana in 1947. (Associated Press)(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); SMUGGLING (52%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR FIDEL CASTRO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



545 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Congress Passes G.O.P.'s Budget, Voting Largely Along Party Lines

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25

 BODY:
Congress passed the Republican budget tonight, driving toward a big tax cut and a showdown with the Clinton Administration over the nation's priorities in an emerging era of fiscal plenty.
Both the House and the Senate passed the measure on largely party-line votes, uniting Republicans in the two chambers as they prepare for months of budget battles with the White House and set an agenda they hope to carry into the 2000 elections. 
 The vote in the House was 221 to 208, with 4 Democrats voting in favor and 2 Republicans voting against. The vote in the Senate was 55 to 44, with 1 Democrat voting in favor and 1 Republican not voting. Both chambers also turned aside Democratic budget proposals.
The Republican budget calls for a tax cut of nearly $800 billion over the next 10 years, an increase in Pentagon spending and more money for education.
But to remain within strict spending limits that both parties have vowed to honor, the plan would require deep cuts in most other programs, prompting sharp criticism from Democrats and leaving even some Republicans uneasy.
In presenting their competing visions of how to divide the expected fiscal windfall in coming years, the two parties generally agreed on setting aside the bulk of projected surpluses for Social Security, which will come under financial strain as the baby boom generation retires.
But in a sign of the enduring sensitivity of Social Security as a political issue, they battled furiously over whose approach walled off more money for the system and did more to reduce the national debt.
Democrats attacked Republicans as putting tax cuts ahead of dealing with the looming problems in Medicare, which will start running short of money in less than a decade. And Democrats said the Republican tax cuts would grow so big over the next decade that they could send the budget back into deficit if the economy falters.
"Making a budget means making choices," said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois. The Republican budget, he said, "makes the right choices for the American people."
In a statement tonight, President Clinton called the Republican plan a series of missed opportunities at a time when the country is facing the welcome prospect of years of Federal budget surpluses.
"It fails to lock in debt reduction, fails to extend the solvency of Social Security and Medicare, and fails to protect key investments for the American people, from Head Start to clean water and law enforcement," Mr. Clinton said.
The budget resolution passed tonight does not become law but serves as the blueprint for the tax and spending bills Congress will take up in the coming months. While it gives the Republicans a chance to emphasize what they see as their core values -- fiscal austerity, tax cuts and smaller government -- it leaves until later in the year the question of how to carry out the spending cuts.
Republicans on the appropriations committees that set spending levels for specific programs say it will be politically difficult if not impossible to pass spending bills requiring sweeping cutbacks in the State Department, the environment, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Head Start and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, among other programs.
In an indication of the bipartisan demand for new spending, the Senate tonight approved an amendment adding $10 billion to the budget over 10 years for child care. Earlier, the Senate rejected a call for additional aid for farmers.
The Republican budget does not specify what types of tax cuts Congress should enact, leaving that decision to the tax-writing committees in the House and Senate. The budget allows for a tax cut of $15 billion next year, an amount that would increase rapidly in subsequent years as the non-Social-Security surplus grows.
The Republican leadership has backed off its pledge earlier this year to cut income tax rates by 10 percent. Instead, Republicans are now looking at packages that could include some rate reductions; reductions in the so-called marriage penalty that leads many two-income couples to pay more in taxes than if they were single; a cut in inheritance taxes, and a reduction in capital gains taxes.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, where tax legislation must originate, said he would not draw up his tax bill until this summer.
There are relatively minor differences in the House and Senate versions of the budget resolution. Republican aides said they expected the differences to be worked out quickly when Congress returns after a two-week recess next month and the final version of the measure to win quick approval in both chambers.
One of the biggest changes in the budget is a vow to end the practice of using Social Security surpluses to offset spending or tax cuts. The plan would require that all surpluses generated by Social Security -- $1.8 trillion over the next decade under the assumptions used by Congress -- be used only to reduce the national debt or to help pay for an overhaul of Social Security.
Republicans said their plan would do more for Social Security than Mr. Clinton's proposal, which in the first few years would allow some of the retirement system's money to be used for spending but would make up for it in later years. Using the Congressional Budget Office's assumptions about the size of the surplus, the Administration's plan would wall off $1.52 trillion over 10 years for Social Security, $275 billion less than the Republican plan.
But White House officials argued that their plan set aside more for Social Security and Medicare combined over the same period. Using the budget office's assumptions, the Administration's plan would reserve $370 billion for Medicare -- bringing the total for Social Security and Medicare over 10 years to nearly $1.9 trillion -- while the Republican plan does not have any money explicitly set aside for Medicare.
The Republicans in the House who voted against the bill were Constance A. Morella of Maryland and Jack Quinn of New York. The Democrats in the House who voted for the bill were Robert E. (Bud) Cramer Jr. of Alabama, Gary A. Condit of California, Ralph M. Hall of Texas and Virgil H. Goode Jr. of Virginia.
The only Senator to cross party lines was John Breaux, the Louisiana Democrat, who voted in favor of the Republican plan. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, did not vote.
Democrats accused Republicans of shortchanging Medicare to finance a tax cut.
"It's a simple choice," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader in the House. "They choose the tax cut over extending the solvency of Social Security and Medicare."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MEDICARE (68%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999



546 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: A 1911 Inferno With a Lesson for Today

BYLINE: By Kevin Baker; Kevin Baker is the author of the historical novel "Dreamland" and was chief researcher on "The American Century."

 BODY:
At first, passers-by thought they were seeing bundles of cloth being tossed into the street. It took them a few minutes to realize they were seeing women, their voluminous skirts billowing out as they leaped from eighth- and ninth-story windows, desperately trying to escape the fire behind them.
Within 18 minutes, 146 people, most of them young women and girls, lay dead or dying on the paving stones of Greene Street and Washington Place in Greenwich Village. It was the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire, one of the deadliest disasters in the history of the American workplace. 
 Thursday's commemoration of the 1911 fire was its second milestone of sorts in recent weeks. On Feb. 21, Bessie Cohen, nee Gabrilowich, the next-to-last survivor of the fire, passed away in Los Angeles at the age of 107.
She was a sturdy, independent woman who survived a mugging at age 89 and lived on her own until she was 93. Yet for years after the tragedy she buried her head in her arms and sobbed whenever there was a thunder or lightning storm.
Her reaction was understandable. The fire unfolded like a bad dream. The hoses inside the building didn't work, and the stairwell doors were locked. The fire department came, but its ladders were only six stories high, and the factory was on the eighth through 10th floors.
The building that housed the factory was actually fireproof. Nearly everything inside it was flammable, though. The stair doors had been locked because the factory owners feared their employees would steal bits of leftover cloth.
The fire rallied support for better, safer working conditions, and it reinvigorated the union movement. Every March 25 since, the garment unions have honored the Triangle dead and the living with a rally on Washington Place.
For many years, leading politicians would attend, and the survivors would sit on the dais -- aging women, most of them Jewish or Italian, dressed in black. At the site, bolted to what is now called the Brown Building, is a plaque proclaiming that the sacrifice of the dead made American working conditions the finest in the world.
That's a questionable assumption today. The improvements that have been made in wages and working conditions tempt us to think of the Triangle fire as something out of the distant past.
In fact, the state Labor Department has estimated that there are 2,500 illegal sweatshops operating within New York City alone. Only 37 percent of the shops employing New York's 90,000 garment workers meet Federal requirements on wages and hours, a Federal Labor Department official told me, and the rate of compliance is comparably poor in other major cities. The modern sweatshops are filled with new immigrants, some of them children, working for sub-minimum wages under conditions that invite another catastrophe.
To combat these abuses, New York State's Apparel Industry Task Force has a staff of only 35. The United States Labor Department has only 950 investigators monitoring some 6.5 million work sites, and a budget of only $120 million to police wage violations -- about $1 per worker.
Yet both state and Federal officials point out that bigger budgets and more inspectors will do only so much. Sweatshop owners have become adept at simply closing their doors and moving across town or across the country. There, they can easily set up shop again under the name of a partner or relative -- and with a new supply of easily exploitable immigrant labor.
As a result, labor regulators have focused their recent efforts on exposing illegally made goods -- that is, getting consumers to recognize and refuse to buy them. Just how viable a strategy that is in an economy where goods come to market from all over the world, under all sorts of labels, is anybody's guess.
Yet anyone who thinks we should just throw up our hands should have been at Thursday's Triangle fire commemoration. Only the faces have changed. The older Jewish and Italian women are gone now, but Washington Place is filled with a whole new generation of Asian and Hispanic Americans, still trying to build a better life. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRIANGLE SHIRTWAIST CO FEDERAL LABOR DEPARTMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRIANGLE SHIRTWAIST CO FEDERAL LABOR DEPARTMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; SWEATSHOPS; LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FIRES AND FIREMEN; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); FACTORY FIRES (77%); WOMEN (77%); CHILD LABOR (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); DEREGULATION (64%); IMMIGRATION (61%); REFUGEES (60%); 

PERSON: BAKER, KEVIN CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



547 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Nestle Earnings Rise 2.6%, Beating Analysts' Forecasts

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: VEVEY, Switzerland, March 26

 BODY:
Nestle S.A., the world's No. 1 foods maker, reported today that its profit rose 2.6 percent in 1998, beating most forecasts, as demand for products from Perrier mineral water to Alcon contact lens solution in the United States and Western Europe outweighed slumping income in Asia and Russia.
Profit rose to 4.29 billion Swiss francs ($2.92 billion), or 109.2 francs a diluted share, from a restated 4.18 billion francs, or 106.3 francs a share, in 1997. Earnings before interest and tax edged up to 7.1 billion francs from 7.06 billion francs. 
 Analysts scaled back their profit forecasts to a range of 3.78 billion francs to 4.20 billion francs after Nestle warned in November that the fall of the Russian ruble and high interest rates in Latin America would depress growth. Today's figures show Nestle was overcautious when it warned that full-year earnings would rise less than sales, which advanced 2.5 percent to 71.7 billion francs ($48.45 billion).
"It's encouraging to see the earnings progress in Europe, which includes Russia and Eastern Europe," said Pierre Tissot, an analyst at Lombard Odier. "Still, they remain exposed to emerging markets, so it's best to be cautious."
Nestle said it planned to raise its dividend 9 percent, to 38 francs from 35 francs, and its shares rose 35 francs, or 1.3 percent, to 2,705 in Zurich.
For 1999, the company, which is based in Vevey, said that "barring events of exceptional gravity" like wild swings in exchange rates, it expected higher sales and earnings.
Nestle restated 1997 and 1998 financial results to reflect a change in the way it calculates depreciation. Second-half profit was not provided and could not be calculated because restated figures for the first half were not made available.
So far this year, "North America is doing fine and Southeast Asia is in the early stages of recovery," Nestle's chief financial officer, Mario Corti, said. "The only area where the situation remains quite grim is Eastern Europe."
"Pharmaceuticals is an area where they're making a lot of progress," said John Keele, an analyst at Paribas who said he expected to maintain his "hold" rating on the stock. "Confectionery remains a problem," he added.
Nestle, whose candy brands include Cailler and Smarties, said operating income from sweets fell 7.4 percent as exports to Russia dried up and the operating margin slipped to 9.3 percent from 9.9 percent. That measure of profitability also fell for Nestle's drinks business, its main source of profit, dropping to 16.3 percent from 16.9 percent.
"We aren't satisfied with the returns we are generating in confectionery," Mr. Corti said. "We're focusing on increasing our sales and getting our costs down." But it will take at least a year to see results from those efforts, he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (96%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); 

STATE: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (78%); 

CITY: ZURICH (57%); 

COMPANY: NESTLE SA NESTLE SA (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: NESTLE SA

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (78%); ZURICH (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FOOD MFG (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EBITDA (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (77%); DIVIDENDS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



548 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Little Chance Seen That Fed Will Lift Rates

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve is almost certain to leave interest rates unchanged when its policy-making committee meets on Tuesday, but the central bank remains wary of resurgent inflation because of the economy's continued strength, analysts say.
With overall price increases negligible and growth appearing to slow a bit from the blistering pace at the end of 1998, the Fed has no rationale for an immediate rate increase, economists say. 
 But the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee, meeting for the second time this year, may move toward adopting a policy bias favoring higher rates -- a tilt that would put financial markets on warning that a rate increase might be in the cards in coming months. Still, analysts put the chances of the Fed adopting a tightening bias next week at well under 50 percent.
"The Fed is absolutely on hold," Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, said.
"While the economy is strong and the unemployment rate very low, inflation remains low and increases in wages have actually diminished," Mr. Levy said. "Then there are the international considerations."
The global financial crisis that prompted the Fed to cut rates three times in quarter-point increments last fall has eased considerably. The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, said in Congressional testimony last month that the improved situation in the markets could eventually justify taking back some portion of those rate reductions.
But Brazil's stabilization is tenuous, and Fed officials are not convinced that Japan's economic slide has bottomed out. So the Fed, analysts say, remains wary about the effects on the rest of the world of a rate increase in the United States.
To some degree, it is the economic weakness in much of the rest of the world that is keeping the United States from overheating. The monthly trade deficit hit a record of nearly $17 billion in January, meaning that a growing volume of imports and declining exports are taking some of the pressure off domestic producers.
The hit from trade appears to be enough to slow the overall rate of growth in the economy, analysts said. Moreover, higher interest rates over the last month are beginning to slow the main engine of the expansion these days -- consumer spending -- in part by cooling what had been a red-hot housing market.
"There has to be some concern about the pace of domestic spending," said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney. "Yet it's quite plausible that market forces themselves will bring about some kind of tempering without any active role from the Fed."
There is still a debate within the Fed over the reasons behind the unusual combination of robust growth and stable prices. On one side are those who say the economy is simply benefiting from a confluence of temporary factors that are holding down inflation for now. On the other is a faction that thinks something fundamental has changed to allow higher rates of noninflationary growth than traditional models would suggest.
Those who see the current combination of strong growth and dormant inflation as temporary point to the recent rise in oil prices as evidence that what had been an unbroken string of good news for the economy will not last forever.
But a growing number of Fed officials seem to have fallen in line with Mr. Greenspan in giving serious consideration to the idea that huge investments in technology over the last decade may have helped to tame inflation by improving productivity, or output per worker.
The economy expanded at a 6.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of last year, matching the fastest quarterly pace of the 1990's. While it appears to have slowed somewhat in the first few months of this year, the economy is still growing at a pace that in the past would have been expected to generate higher inflation, economists said, especially with unemployment at just 4.4 percent.
Last spring, faced with a similar situation, the Fed decided to move to a tightening bias in late March. It retained that bias until August, when Russia's debt default rocked global financial markets.
This year, though, Fed officials seem more comfortable with allowing the economy some leeway, especially since there is virtually no inflation. The Consumer Price Index rose just one-tenth of 1 percent in each of the last three months and just 1.6 percent over the last year. Although oil prices are spiking up after a sharp drop, prices in other areas are likely to remain stable. And wages, although rising, are not gaining ground fast enough to be a serious inflationary threat, largely because productivity has been growing at a faster pace, too.
Indeed, in a recent speech, Robert T. Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and one of the Fed's chief inflation hawks, appeared more open to the idea that the economy could grow faster without generating more inflation.
"While it's too soon to say for sure whether the productivity surge is temporary or permanent, two pieces of evidence do seem to point to a fundamental shift in productivity," Mr. Parry said.
First, he said, the phenomenal pace of consumer spending -- it grew 5.25 percent in 1998 -- appears to reflect an assumption among individuals, based on what they see happening at their own jobs, that their incomes will continue growing.
The second piece of evidence, Mr. Parry said, is the collective judgment of the stock market, which seems to think that companies can continue generating strong profit gains.
David Orr, chief economist at First Union Capital Markets, observed that at least half a dozen Fed governors and bank presidents have made statements in recent weeks expressing confidence that inflation is contained.
"More than I can remember in the past," Mr. Orr said, "they seem to be comfortable that if inflation is going to pick up it's not going to be sudden or anything they're behind the curve on." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



549 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Foie Gras and Chips, Anyone?;
Internet Shopping Is (Sort of) Catching On in Europe

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: MILAN, Italy

 BODY:
Maria Paola Sassella is often amused by her customers, who are experimenting with what for Europeans is still an unfamiliar practice: shopping on the World Wide Web.
For the last year, her company, Vino Please, has been selling wines on line (www.vinoplease.it). Customers click on Chianti and Brunello wines to have them delivered anywhere in Italy, and to Germany and Japan -- or indeed any country where such sales are permitted. (The United States is not among them.) 
 "Some examine my products on the Internet, then fax the order in," Ms. Sassella said, with a mix of bemusement and desperation. Many do not pay with a credit card, but pay later by making a bank transfer. Moreover, she added, with a sigh of resignation, almost all her customers are men, who so far dominate Europe's corner of cyberspace.
While Americans have embraced on-line shopping, Europeans are just now warming to electronic commerce. From designing her Internet site and persuading diffident wine growers to supply products, Ms. Sassella has received an education in how difficult it is to convince Europeans, who have plenty of small shops and age-old shopping habits, that they should shop on the Web.
On-line shopping accounted for just $1.2 billion of Europe's $1.9 trillion in retail sales last year, compared with $8 billion in on-line sales and $2.6 trillion in total sales in the United States, according to Forrester Research, a market research firm based in Cambridge, Mass.
 Yet Ms. Sassella, who is based in Milan, and other European on-line entrepreneurs have reasons to be optimistic. Internet use is rising in Europe as its cost falls, thanks in large part to the deregulation of telecommunications. Governments, troubled by Europe's lag behind North America, are pushing for more Internet use in schools, and at work and home. And the introduction of the euro in 11 European countries is giving electronic commerce an additional boost because a single currency makes billing and price comparisons easier.
As a result, on-line stores are spreading like brush fire. More than 400 operate in Italy, compared with 13 just two years ago. In Germany, more than 1,200 on-line stores now sell books, and book sales per capita rival those in the United States.
"We always start late," Ms. Sassella said, "but then it takes off."
Germany, whose 80 million people make it the largest market in Europe, now has 8.4 million Internet users, 40 percent more than six months ago, according to GFK A.G., a market research firm in Nuremberg. In Italy, there are more than two million Internet users, 25 percent more than a year earlier.
American companies like I.B.M., Microsoft and Cisco Systems are actively promoting electronic commerce among their European customers. American on-line merchants are expanding into Europe, too. Last year, Amazon.com began operations in Britain and Germany, and Barnes & Noble linked up with Bertelsmann A.G., the German media giant.
"We expect big growth, and we expect it to be pervasive," said Jean-Luc Szymanski, who is responsible for electronic commerce at IBM France. Last year, IBM France sponsored a promotion called Surf and Buy to lure French merchants like the mail-order house Les Trois Suisses and Decathlon, a chain of sports megastores, on line.
Another area ripe for growth is in electronic commerce between companies. Walter Poloni, Microsoft's program manager for electronic commerce in Italy, said that the high density of midsize companies in Europe made them rich markets for the growth of business-to-business on-line commerce. In Italy, for instance, fewer than 1 percent of the country's 3.4 million companies employ more than 500 people.
"Many of these companies are getting started, but they are one or two years back with respect to the United States," Mr. Poloni said.
Two years ago, Andreina Mandelli, marketing professor and director of the Internet Observatory at the business school of Bocconi University in Milan, was advising a student who wanted to write a paper about business-to-business electronic commerce. The student could not find an example in Italy.
"Now," Professor Mandelli said, "every day you hear of another example." In the fall of 1997, she surveyed 300 of Italy's 2,000 largest corporations and found that 76 percent were connected to the Internet; by last fall, the figure had risen to 90 percent.
To be sure, Europe has a long way to go to catch up with the United States. Compounding the reluctance of many Europeans to try on-line shopping has been poor postal service in countries like Italy. (Private delivery services can be expensive.) In addition, taxes vary significantly from country to country, which makes shipping products like wines across borders a nightmare.
Many Europeans fear entrusting credit card information to computers. Indeed, European legislation has sought to protect personal data from computer networks, in contrast to the United States, where privacy control depends largely on industry self-regulation.
There may be social and cultural barriers as well. Europeans, accustomed to cities with vibrant downtown shopping areas, tend to view shopping as a social activity, said Sheila Moorcroft, author of "European Commerce on the Internet," a report issued by Phillips Tarifica Ltd., a British market research firm. Hence they "distinguish between shopping and buying," she said, while on-line purchases "are clearly in the latter category."
To overcome such resistance, many Internet retailers emphasize tradition. Antoine Cahen sells French-language books on the Internet (www.alapage.com). His strategy is to focus on books, records and videocassettes, and he has found a market outside France, where about half of alapage.com sales originate. "That's the problem of Amazon and Bertelsmann," he said. "I don't think they want to defend local cultures. We have a reason to exist."
Mr. Cahen started in the business 10 years ago, when he joined a French schoolbook publisher to sell books on the old Minitel on-line information system. In 1997, the business went on the Web. Last year, annual sales were $670,000, and they have soared so far this year, totaling $217,000 in January alone. Mr. Cahen, 36, who runs the business with 15 employees in Paris, says he expects more than $3 million in sales for the full year. "It's not a lot, it's only the beginning," he said.
Gouts de France, another French on-line retailer, has carved out a niche selling French food products whose manufacturers lacked the resources for promotional programs.
"Local craftsmen are too small to export," said Isabelle de Montille, 38, the daughter of a Burgundy wine maker, who considered several alternatives -- a food guide or television sales -- before settling on the Internet (www.goutsdefrance.com). Since starting last September, she sells about 70 products, like potted meats and traditional French spice blends, and averages two to three sales a day.
It is in part this mushrooming of on-line retailers that has prompted experts to predict strong Internet sales growth, though the forecasts vary wildly.
In October, Frost & Sullivan predicted that European on-line commerce -- business-to-business and retail -- would grow to more than $8 billion by 2004, from $35.8 million in 1997. Forrester expects the growth to be much more explosive. In a recent report, it predicted European Internet commerce would be worth $69 billion by 2001, equivalent to almost 1 percent of European economic output. Joe Sawyer, an author of the Forrester forecast, said that he could not explain the huge discrepancy, though he added that "people in the industry criticize us for being conservative."
Nothing has done as much to accelerate electronic commerce as recent drops in the cost of using the Internet. Italy and France have successfully put pressure on Internet service providers and phone companies to drop rates.
In Britain, free Internet access providers, which aim to make money from advertising and on-line commerce, are cropping up. In January, Toys "R" Us said it was starting free service to increase on-line sales. That followed the success of Freeserve, started in September by Dixons Group P.L.C., an appliance retailer, which has since signed more than one million subscribers. Similar ventures are afoot on the Continent.
In February, European antitrust officials took a step that could lead to lower Internet prices across Europe. They began an inquiry into whether Deutsche Telekom, one of the Continent's biggest Internet access providers, was abusing its influence to keep prices up. The inquiry followed a complaint by AOL Europe, a joint venture of America Online and Bertelsmann, the international publishing and media concern based in Gutersloh, Germany. A decision against Deutsche Telekom, which holds 56 percent of Germany's market for dial-up Internet customers, could set a European precedent for on-line service costs, which are as much as five times the cost in the United States.
Igor Schlumberger has changed his Internet habits since signing up with Cybercable, a new way of getting access to the Internet via cable and one that skirts the hefty phone fees charged by France Telecom.
"Before, an evening on the Web was more expensive than going to the movies," he said.
Mr. Schlumberger, 35, who works for a software designer in Paris, made his first on-line purchase, a book for a friend who had neither Internet access nor a good local bookstore, three months ago. Since then he has bought a washing machine for the same friend and a camera for his wife.
"The more time I spend on the Web" he said, "the more likely I am to buy something."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cristiano Cora sends a case of wine on its merry way to an on-line client of Vino Please. At left, the Web pages of Gouts de France and alapage.com, where food and books are just a few clicks away. (James Hill for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "The Virtual Mall"
While still behind the United States, Internet use in Europe is rising as costs fall. E-commerce is expected to rise as a result. Graphs show total internet users and total on-line purchases, for the U.S. and Europe for 1998 and a projected 1999. (Sources: Forrester Research; Jupiter Communications)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY (94%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (56%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP GFK AG (82%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY (94%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (56%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); WINE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (86%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (86%); DEREGULATION (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (72%); BOOKSTORES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (68%); CURRENCIES (66%); EURO (62%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN MARIA PAOLA SASSELLA (79%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



550 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Heavy Selling ofCorporate Debt Saps Demand for Treasuries

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday, as Citigroup and other companies sold $3.8 billion of debt, sapping demand for Government securities.
"Corporations are stepping up issuance," said Marc Fovinci, who helps oversee $1.8 billion at Ferguson, Wellman, Rudd, Purdy & Van Winkle Inc. in Portland, Ore. "The money is going to flow there," he added, as investors seek the higher yields on corporate bonds. 
 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond slipped 2/32 , to 95 4/32 , lifting its yield to 5.59 percent from 5.58 percent on Thursday.
In contrast, short-maturity Treasury securities gained today as NATO air strikes in the Balkans encouraged some investors to seek the safety of American debt, cutting the yield on two-year notes by 3 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 4.98 percent.
Investors bought notes today in "a small flight-to-quality," said Sal Greco, a strategist at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, which manages $14 billion of Treasuries.
Citigroup led corporate sales with $1.5 billion of global bonds. The Imperial Tobacco Group P.L.C. sold $600 million of 10-year notes.
More than $3 billion in new corporate bonds is expected next week, following about $16 billion of corporate bonds sold this week.
"There are a lot of deals," said Andrew Brenner, a director at Fimat USA Inc. "That's bringing some weakness to Treasuries."
That is because investment banks often sell Treasuries when they underwrite corporate debt. The reason is to protect against losses in case interest rates rise before the sales are completed. They usually buy the Government securities back later.
The biggest issue this week was the AT&T Corporation's record $8 billion bond sale, but it was not alone. MCI Worldcom Inc., the Associates Corporation of North America, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are also among the borrowers that have sold multibillion-dollar debt issues in recent months. This comes at a time when the Treasury is selling less and less debt, as the booming economy produces budget surpluses.
With shrinking Treasury debt, yields have fallen, lowering borrowing costs and prompting corporations to sell securities in large- enough amounts to have the potential to take on benchmark status.
Washington-based Fannie Mae, the biggest buyer of home mortgages, is expected to sell some $130 billion of debt this year, making it second only to the Treasury in terms of borrowing, a Fannie Mae official said. It has already sold more than $60 billion of securities due from 3 to 10 years under its Benchmark Note program, started in January 1998.
With their top debt ratings, large issue size and frequency of borrowing, Fannie Mae and other Government-sponsored enterprises may have the makings for a good pricing benchmark. These issues include some with maturities no longer sold by the Government -- such as three- and seven-year notes.
As the pool of existing Treasury debt shrinks, borrowers may have no choice but to find other pricing benchmarks. Three decades ago, several corporations priced their long-term debt off AT&T's bonds because the Treasury was not selling such long-term debt on a regular basis.
Many investors and corporate executives say it will be a long time before Treasury yields are replaced as a global benchmark for interest rates. Treasuries are still the only place to turn to find a wide range of issues that are actively traded and sold on a regular basis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); T (NYSE) (91%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); MET (NYSE) (69%); IMT (LSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (69%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); AT&T INC (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); METLIFE INC (69%); IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC (68%); NEWEDGE GROUP (54%); ASSOCIATES CORP OF NORTH AMERICA (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OREGON, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (93%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); BOND ISSUES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



551 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Republicans' Resolve in Rallying Around Budget Sets Up Tougher Tests

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26

 BODY:
Republican leaders in Congress took care of the easy part of this year's budget battle in passing their tax and spending plan on Thursday.
By managing to hold their fractious caucus together and dampen rivalries between the party's leaders in the House and Senate, Republicans were able to lay out a cohesive agenda built around a sweeping tax cut, fiscal austerity, a strong military and smaller Government. 
 Passage of the budget resolutions in the two chambers sets up a clean debate with Democrats and President Clinton. Republicans say the overriding priorities as the nation decides how to divide anticipated budget surpluses should be shoring up Social Security and returning as much money as possible to taxpayers, with more money carved out as well for the Pentagon and education.
Democrats agree that Social Security should top the list, but say the remainder of the projected windfall should be apportioned among Medicare, spending on a broad range of domestic programs and tax cuts for low- and middle-income people.
But the process of turning the Republican budget guideline into tax and spending legislation that can pass Congress and be signed into law by Mr. Clinton promises to be messy, contentious and slow. Making it even more difficult are the looming problems in Social Security and Medicare, which are casting a long shadow over the budget debate and seem increasingly unlikely to be resolved this year.
If there has been any clear message this year, it is the enduring power of Social Security to shape the policies and politics of both parties. Where the deficit once constrained Republican tax-cutting efforts and forced Democrats to limit their calls for new spending, the fear among both parties of being accused by the other of raiding Social Security money has created an unlikely but far-reaching consensus.
Both parties now agree that the bulk of the surplus, roughly $1.8 trillion out of $2.6 trillion over the next decade, should not be used for spending or tax cuts. Rather, they say, it should be used only to help Social Security, either indirectly by reducing the national debt, or directly by financing a Republican-backed plan to create private investment accounts within the retirement system.
That $1.8 trillion represents the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security payroll taxes in excess of what is needed to pay benefits over the next decade. Although successive Congresses and Administrations have dipped into the Social Security surplus for years to finance general Government operations, that pool of money has quickly become so sacrosanct that the two parties are arguing about who can do more to wall it off from the rest of the budget.
"The argument that we should not use Social Security taxes for anything else has turned out to be far more compelling than most folks anticipated," said Carol Cox Wait, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a fiscal watchdog group.
Because so much of the surplus is now agreed to be untouchable, the fight over what is left is that much more intense.
In many ways it will be a nuts and bolts legislative fight, with lawmakers of both parties trying to win money for what they consider pressing needs. To hold House Republicans together in the budget vote on Thursday, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert had to mollify the powerful chairman of the Transportation Committee, Representative Bud Shuster, Republican of Pennsylvania, by promising more money for airport expansions and improvements.
In the Senate, a bipartisan majority agreed at the last minute to increase financing for child care. In both chambers, legislators made pleas for more aid for hard-pressed farmers.
The willingness of Republicans to stand by their pledges of fiscal austerity will not be truly tested until this summer, when they vote on appropriations bills that will have to slash many domestic programs to remain within tight spending limits.
Then Republicans will face the challenge of negotiating with Mr. Clinton to get their tax and spending bills signed into law. The President has proved skillful in outmaneuvering Republicans in the budget endgame in recent years, not only achieving enough of his goals to claim victory but also leaving Republicans at one another's throats.
In a memorandum sent today to the Republican leadership, two influential conservatives, Stephen Moore of the Cato Institute and Lawrence Kudlow, a supply-side economist, said the party could face a meltdown if it mishandled the budget this year.
"The G.O.P. must at all costs avoid last year's fiscal collapse, when Congress agreed to enormous election-eve spending bills, and tax cuts were scuttled altogether," the memorandum said. "Repeating those mistakes later this year will so dispirit the conservative pro-growth wing of the G.O.P. that the party will risk losing everything in November of 2000: the House, the Senate and the White House."
Mr. Moore and Mr. Kudlow would not have been heartened by a statement made by Mr. Hastert today in an on-line chat with students. Asked what kind of tax cut Republicans would pursue with the $15 billion they anticipate will be available for that purpose next year, Mr. Hastert responded that he was not sure how much would be left once the spending bills were completed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICARE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



552 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Russia Sign Uranium Sales Deal

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 26

 BODY:
Russia and the United States have quietly signed an agreement that salvages a $12 billion deal aimed at helping Russia convert uranium from its nuclear weapons into fuel for American nuclear reactors, Administration officials said today.
The program to convert highly enriched uranium into low-enrichment fuel is the key component of a three-part package and part of the Administration's effort to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, Administration officials said. The United States and Russia have already taken steps to safeguard Russia's nuclear-weapons material and contain damage from a nuclear accident should one occur. 
 The latest agreement was signed without publicity at a ceremony at the Department of Energy on Wednesday night, just hours after cruise missiles began hitting targets in Yugoslavia. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson and Yevgeny Adamov, Russia's Minister of Atomic Energy, toasted each other with champagne.
The accord was supposed to have been announced at the end of the planned visit by Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, but he aborted his visit en route to Washington on Tuesday after NATO authorized the attacks on Yugoslavia.
Secretary Richardson said today that the new agreement put the uranium-conversion deal, which was originally signed in 1993 but quickly ran into trouble, "on solid ground for years to come."
"Russia benefits and America benefits," he added, "and that, more than anything, symbolizes our new relationship. We seek mutual security, not separate advantage."
Deeply in debt and in desperate need of billions of dollars in Western loans, Russia will now be able to sell 500 metric tons of uranium from its nuclear warheads, worth an estimated $12 billion, to the United States Government and energy companies over the next 20 years.
An Administration official said that under the 1993 agreement, Russia diluted about 30 tons of weapons-grade uranium that was supposed to be sold to the West. But the deal snagged over disputes about the terms of the sale after uranium prices plunged, and Russia stopped diluting the uranium last year.
Last fall Congress and the Administration agreed to spend $325 million to buy the natural uranium that had accumulated at market prices. The Administration then helped Russia conclude deals with three energy companies -- Cameco of Canada, Cogema of France, and Nukem of Germany. The contacts were signed two days ago, the Administration official said.
The second part of the new agreement sets up two centers for enhancing nuclear safety in Russia and the United States. The centers, which will cost Washington about $1 million to open and up to $2 million a year when fully operatings, are supposed to enable Russian and American nuclear experts to cooperate in resolving environmental issues associated with managing radioactive waste and decontaminating plants that are taken out of commission.
The American center will be located at the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory in Idaho Falls, the historical home of research reactors and advanced test reactors. A site for the Russian center has not been determined, but it will be in Moscow.
The third part provides American assistance to help the Russian Atomic Energy Ministry establish a nuclear crisis center similar to the Department of Energy's Emergency Operations Center in Washington. The goal is to assemble experts and resources quickly to help protect people in the event of an accident at a nuclear plant.
Discussing the decision by Mr. Adamov, the Russian minister, to stay in Washington despite disagreements over the bombing of Yugoslavia, the senior Administration who described the new accord said: "We've had a lot of ups and downs, politically and economically in our relationship. But we've both kept our eyes on the importance of the shared goal of helping Russia control its nuclear material and know-how."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AREVA (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (58%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AREVA SA (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (77%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (62%); ENGINEERING (62%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



553 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Back The Censure Of Beijing Over Rights

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26

 BODY:
The Administration announced today that it would sponsor a United Nations resolution next month condemning Beijing for what the resolution calls the wholesale violation of human rights.
Last year President Clinton decided to drop Washington's tradition of sponsoring such a resolution at the United Nations Human Rights Commission annual meeting in Geneva, arguing that China's behavior was improving and that seeking a public rebuke was counterproductive. 
 Shortly thereafter China signed the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, which commits Beijing to guaranteeing freedom of expression, assembly and religion.
But so far China has not ratified the convention, and as the economy has slowed and protests have erupted, the Government has imprisoned more dissidents and cracked down on all efforts to organize political opposition.
James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said today that in the past year, "China's human rights record has deteriorated sharply."
The new resolution was announced less than two weeks before Prime Minister Zhu Rongji is to arrive here for an official visit. The trip has already become intertwined with Washington's intensifying debate about nuclear spying, soaring trade deficits and China's efforts to win American approval for entry into the World Trade Organization.
In fact, rarely has the Administration's policy of separating trade and human rights been starker than today: even as the State Department was making its announcement, American and Chinese negotiators were trying to fashion a deal on China's membership in the trade group in time for Mr. Zhu's arrival in Washington, which is scheduled for April 8.
Administration officials insisted today that their decision to go ahead with the resolution condemning China was driven chiefly by China's crackdown on dissidents. But, speaking on condition of anonymity, they readily acknowledged that it was also linked to the increasing hostility toward China on Capitol Hill, where the questions of its rights record and fitness to join the trade organization seem inseparable.
Some in Congress have threatened to block China's entry. By sponsoring the resolution condemning China, the White House hopes to argue that it is using the Geneva forum to try to punish the Chinese -- without punishing American exporters or others doing business with Beijing.
"There's a sense that the President has to show Congress he can get tough," one Administration official said, "without sinking the whole relationship."
The State Department did not release the wording of its proposed resolution today, but if the past is any guide, the measure stands little chance of passage. Since their introduction in 1990, a year after the shootings at Tiananmen Square, similar resolutions have consistently been defeated.
That reality -- along with politically symbolic gestures by the Chinese in 1998, including the release from jail of Wang Dan and other prominent democracy advocates -- led the Administration to decide last year to skip the ritual at the Geneva meeting.
But the environment has radically changed. Economic troubles have brought on anti-Government protests in China. The State Department's rights report, released last month, condemned Beijing for a new wave of repression. But even then several Administration officials said they thought the report alone might serve to register Washington's protest. They hinted that the United States might again forgo sponsoring a resolution. In a foreign policy speech last month, President Clinton suggested that China was "moving away from the rule of fear."
The Senate, however, unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution calling for a condemnation of China at the Geneva meeting, which began this week and will continue through April. And the Administration, a senior State Department official told reporters today, concluded that was the only realistic choice.
"Having chronicled the facts and the deterioration," the senior official said, "we had no choice but to go ahead with the resolution as part of our strategy of engagement on human rights." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); RELIGION (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



554 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Setbacks in Drug Issues Send the Dow 14 Points Lower

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as Merck & Company and the Warner-Lambert Company suffered setbacks on profitable drugs. The Oracle Corporation and other software companies limited the decline, gaining on speculation that investors had overreacted to concern about slowing sales of personal computers.
"Merck and Warner-Lambert's pipelines aren't as rich as Bristol-Myers' or Pfizer's today," said Michael Weiner, managing director at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation, which owns shares of all four of the drug makers and oversees more than $110 billion in Columbus, Ohio. "The more dominant the product, the more scared investors get." 
 Some traders said they were reluctant to hold stocks over the weekend as NATO began a new wave of air attacks in Yugoslavia.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 14.15 points, to 9,822.24, with Goodyear Tire and Rubber contributing most to the decline. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 7.19 points, to 1,282.80, with drug makers accounting for 18 percent of the loss. The Nasdaq composite index declined 15.63 points, to 2,419.17.
Merck fell 2 3/16 , to 80 3/8, after Glaxo Wellcome P.L.C. said a European Union regulatory panel recommended that its new AIDS drug Ziagen be approved, a step toward full acceptance in what is the world's second-biggest market. The Glaxo approval adds to the list of drugs that are challenging Merck's Crixivan as a top choice for treating HIV. Viracept from Agouron Pharmaceuticals has already passed Crixivan in United States sales.
Warner-Lambert fell 1 21/32 , to 67 11/16 , after a Government scientist voiced concern to a Government advisory panel about the risks of Rezulin, the diabetes drug that helped make Warner-Lambert one of the world's most profitable drug companies.
Oracle, which had fallen 36 percent from Feb. 3 through Wednesday, climbed 13/16 to 27 1/2.
"Concern about tech earnings got a bit overblown" as the Nasdaq composite index slumped as much as 10 percent from its record in early February, said Guy Truicko, a money manager at Unity Management, which oversees $1 billion in Lake Success, N.Y. "The old leadership is starting to regain some steam."
BMC Software Inc. rose 2 1/2, to 37 11/16 . Demand for mainframe computers is still strong and concern about slowing revenue as the year 2000 approaches is excessive, said Gibbs Moody, a Warburg Dillon Read Inc. analyst who reiterated his "strong buy" rating on the maker of corporate software. He expects the stock to reach 55 in 12 months.
Goodyear fell 2 1/16 , to 49 13/16 , on mistaken investor concern over a company news releases, said Nick Colas, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston Inc., who rates the tire maker a buy. He said investors have always been concerned about capacity expansion and yesterday's statement made it sound as if the company was expanding production capacity when it was shifting production to Quebec from Alabama.
The overall earnings picture is brighter than it has been in several quarters. The First Call Corporation said analysts it surveyed expect first-quarter operating profits for companies in the S.& P. 500 to rise 6.4 percent, their biggest gain since the last three months of 1997.
Still, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company's chief global strategist, Barton Biggs, told CNBC yesterday that the 15 or 20 biggest United States stocks are the most overvalued. He also said small stocks were not likely to rally if big ones fell.
In composite trading, 156 stocks fell to 52-week lows, while 88 rose to highs. Lows have outnumbered highs on every day except one this month.
Escalating violence in the Balkans held back gains. NATO began a third wave of air attacks on military targets in Yugoslavia.
War has been bad news for stocks in the past. The Dow average fell 21 percent from July 2, 1990, through Oct. 11, 1990; Iraq invaded Kuwait in August of that year, setting off the Persian Gulf War. The United States entered World War II in 1941, and the industrials declined 30 percent from the end of 1940 through April 1942.
"The record of getting involved in Balkan wars is very poor," said Robert Stovall, who manages about $2 billion in assets for Stovall/Twenty-First Advisers Inc. While the conflict is not curbing the economy or corporate earnings, "the market won't like it if there's confusion" in the Government's top ranks, "which is likely if we have casualties," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since March 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (96%); MRK (NYSE) (96%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (94%); GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); GT (SWX) (83%); GT (NASDAQ) (83%); GT (BRU) (83%); BMC (NASDAQ) (62%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (83%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (83%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (83%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (83%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (96%); ORACLE CORP (94%); WARNER-LAMBERT CO (94%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); PFIZER INC (90%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (83%); BMC SOFTWARE INC (62%); FIRST BOSTON INC (60%); AGOURON PHARMACEUTICALS INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); TIRES (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



555 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
It's Great Beisbol, but Diplomacy Lite

BYLINE: By TINA ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
Fans of the Baltimore Orioles (79-83 last season) have learned not to expect too much, and that is good advice for those looking for political fallout from the Orioles' baseball game tomorrow against a Cuban all-star team in Havana. The Orioles are the latest American athletes to be pressed into service as diplomats. But the game, part of a modest package of measures to expand American contact with ordinary Cubans, is likely to give only a slight boost to relations between Washington and Havana. Sports diplomacy has produced dramatic breakthroughs only when the governments using it were looking for one.
The most dramatic was the 1971 initiative that came to be known as Ping-Pong diplomacy. After 20 years with no contacts between China and the United States, Prime Minister Zhou Enlai invited the American table tennis team to visit China on its way home from the world championships in Japan. 
 The 15 players and three reporters who went to Beijing probably represented more American visitors than had set foot in China since 1950. The Americans said afterward that their hosts, obviously superior players, let them win many of the games. Three months after the matches the national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, made a secret visit to arrange President Nixon's triumphal trip the next year.
Undoubtedly the low point of sports diplomacy came in 1987, when Heinz Weifenbach, the owner of a cash-strapped ice hockey team in the West German town of Iserlohn, made a deal with Muammar el-Qaddafi. In exchange for the promise of $900,000 from the Libyan leader, the Iserlohn players wore jerseys advertising the "Green Book," a compilation of Colonel Qaddafi's wisdom. The book was a best seller in Libya, needless to say, but to Mr. Qaddafi's frustration had enjoyed only limited readership elsewhere.
Germany's ice hockey federation and local politicians quickly halted the arrangement, in part because the year before Libya had orchestrated the bombing of a West Berlin nightclub frequented by American soldiers, killing three people and injuring hundreds. Although Mr. Weifenbach compared the sponsorship deal to Ping-Pong diplomacy, it seems to have failed to improve German-Libyan relations.
Since then, there has been a spate of sports diplomacy lite. In 1991 North and South Korea, bitter enemies, fielded a joint table tennis team at the world championships in Japan. Last year the Stars and Stripes flew in Teheran as five American wrestlers competed, to warm applause. A month before, Iran's President, Mohammad Khatami, had proposed a program of cultural exchanges with the United States.
The Orioles' trip -- and a return engagement that the Cuban team will play in Baltimore in May -- will most likely have a similarly modest effect. Along with authorizing the baseball games, the Clinton Administration in January approved other cultural exchanges and allowed Americans to increase the amount of money they can send Cubans. But wary of alienating right-wing Cubans and their supporters, the Administration did not lift the economic embargo on Cuba or approve the bipartisan commission many senators had backed to re-examine Cuba policy.
Still, the Orioles' trip will open the door to other high-profile exchanges -- and, perhaps, to better baseball. George Steinbrenner has been invited to Cuba to talk about a visit by the Yankees.
 TINA ROSENBERG 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (93%); CUBA (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (51%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (51%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (93%); CUBA (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (51%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BASEBALL (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); SPORTS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WRESTLING (72%); BESTSELLERS (63%); BOMBINGS (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, TINA RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



556 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Market Grows For U.S. Cars From Canada

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 26

 BODY:
American entrepreneurs have been buying tens of thousands of vehicles cheaply at Canadian dealerships and reselling them in the United States, making substantial profits and in the process sidestepping American fuel-economy rules.
This cross-border commerce is booming because cars and trucks, including those made in the United States, cost less in Canada these days -- as much as $5,000 less for big sport utility vehicles and large cars. The Canadian dollar's value has tumbled, dropping nearly 9 percent against the American dollar the last two years. Auto makers have been reluctant to raise Canadian prices to compensate because the Canadian economy is weaker and incomes are lower than in the United States. 
 Imports of new and used vehicles from Canada have risen nearly twelvefold the last two years because of the price gap and are still rising. Roughly 10,000 vehicles a month are entering the country under a special program originally intended mainly to help immigrants from Canada bring their cars here. Factories in the United States are shipping thousands of vehicles to Canadian dealers who put them on trucks back to the United States for resale as new cars by dealers here.
Canadian prices tend to be particularly low for large models, notably full-size sport utility vehicles. Canadian taxes keep gasoline prices about 20 percent higher than in the United States, limiting demand for big gas guzzlers. Most of the vehicles being brought south are large and built in the United States but are exempt from Federal rules aimed at improving the fuel economy of the nation's fleet of family vehicles.
The average American cannot simply fly up to Canada, buy a cheap vehicle and drive it back because she would face weeks and possibly months of paperwork before crossing the border. The Transportation Department issues licenses to businesses, known as registered importers, to bring in vehicles, and companies are lining up for these licenses; the number of registered importers has risen to 144 from 80 the last 15 months.
Of 74,413 vehicles brought into the United States last year, all but 400 or so came from Canada. The reason is simple: cars and trucks imported from anywhere else, including Mexico, require thousands of dollars in modifications to meet American safety and environmental rules.
But Canada has followed American safety standards for years and adopted American vehicular pollution rules as of Sept. 1, 1997. Registered importers usually just replace the Canadian speedometer and odometer, which are calibrated in kilometers instead of miles.
Most registered importers serve as middlemen between Canadian and American dealers and do not have the staff to sell vehicles to the general public. It is up to the American dealer whether to pass on the savings to customers.
The registered importers contend that they are helping consumers by providing American car dealers with a way around the steep markups that auto makers now charge in the United States, particularly on large vehicles. "All we do is relocate vehicles to someone who can help them," said Richard J. Izzo, the president of Superior Auto Sales Inc., a registered importer in Hamburg, N.Y., near Buffalo, which ships cars as far south as Florida.
Roger L. Palczewski, a milk processing company executive in Orchard Park, N.Y., and his daughter, Tracey, bought a new, Mexican-made silver Volkswagen New Beetle from Canada for her in early January rather than go on a four-month waiting list for a Beetle imported directly from Mexico. "It has been great," Mr. Palczewski said.
Dealers and individuals have been trading cars across borders in Europe for years to take advantage of currency shifts, and national differences in car prices have become a big consumer issue there. Here and in Europe, some auto makers have tried to discourage the trade.
The registered importers are exempt from American fuel-economy regulations, which require that the average fuel economy for all of the cars sold by each auto maker must be at least 27.5 miles a gallon. The average fuel economy for each auto maker's sales of sport utility vehicles, vans and pickup trucks must be at least 20.7 miles a gallon.
A computer printout supplied by the Transportation Department of virtually all the vehicles brought in last year shows that there were very few small cars and fairly few small sport utilities, pickups or minivans; the list is dominated by large, heavy vehicles with poor fuel economy.
Regulators have not calculated the average fuel economy of vehicles being brought in by the registered importers because no law requires them to do so. By contrast, direct imports from auto makers' overseas factories total about two million vehicles each year, and these are subject to fuel economy laws.
Monthly shipments of registered imports are currently equal to a little less than 1 percent of all vehicles sold in the United States, too small a number to have a significant impact on the fuel economy of any manufacturer. Still, even at the margin, from a regulatory standpoint, the shipments are helpful to the auto makers, which are under severe pressure to meet the fuel-economy targets. General Motors has been taking particularly drastic measures, like cutting short the 1998 model year of the giant Chevrolet Suburban after just five months of production to keep G.M.'s corporate average up.
Executives from G.M., Ford Motor, DaimlerChrysler and several foreign auto makers say they absolutely do not have a policy of avoiding fuel-economy rules by shipping big vehicles to Canada and then letting them trickle back into the United States. Indeed, the auto makers have financial incentives to limit the cross-border trade and are taking some steps to do so. Their profit margins are smaller on the vehicles they sell at lower markups to Canadian dealers.
James P. Holden, DaimlerChrysler's executive vice president for North American sales, pointed out that executives who deliberately tried to subvert the corporate average fuel economy rules could face criminal prosecution. "We don't play games on C.A.F.E., and I don't believe that any other manufacturer would play that game," he said.
Richard G. Wagoner Jr., G.M.'s president, said auto makers preferred to sell cars and trucks for higher prices in the United States. "If anything, the Canadians have to squeal to get their fair share," he said.
Ford's computers have been programmed to spot cases in which Ford cars originally shipped to Canadian dealers were taken in for warranty work at Ford's dealers in the United States. While Ford pays for the warranty work, it also traces the serial number to determine if the vehicle was sold across the border soon after it was shipped to Canada. If it was, Ford identifies the Canadian dealer who originally received the vehicle from the factory and charges that dealer a fee equal to the dealer's estimated profit on the vehicle's sale.
Ford sells an Expedition XLT full-size sport utility vehicle with four-wheel drive for $32,730 retail in the United States. North of the border, Ford charges the Canadian equivalent of $27,550.
Some auto makers, like Volkswagen, put no limits on the cross-border shipments.
Only one auto maker, Honda Motor, has really crimped the registered importers by limiting the availability of replacement speedometers and odometers in recent months. Art Garner, a Honda spokesman, said the auto maker wanted to make sure dealers told customers when they were buying a vehicle meant for the Canadian market, which is difficult to determine once the speedometer and odometer have been changed.
Honda, one of the few auto makers that do not have a problem meeting the average fuel-economy rules, also has an unusually stringent warranty policy. American Honda dealers who sell cars purchased from Canadian dealers are required to pay for any warranty work done on the cars anywhere in the United States.
Registered importers are furious at Honda, contending that it is limiting American dealers' freedom to acquire vehicles at the lowest possible cost. But the policy appears to have been effective. Honda started enforcing the speedometer policy with its Odyssey minivans, for which there are long waiting lists at its American dealerships; only eight Odysseys were brought in from Canada by registered importers last year, according to the Transportation Department.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because of the erosion in the value of the Canadian dollar in recent years, it has become profitable for importers to purchase large sport utility vehicles at retail prices in Canada and resell them in the United States. (Don Heupel for The New York Times)(pg. C2)
 
Graph: "Border Crossings"
Taking advantage of the weak Canadian dollar, entrepreneurs are buying new cars and trucks in Canada and reselling them for higher prices in the U.S. Graph shows number of imported vehicles, from 1994 through a projected 1999. (Source: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; CURRENCY MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); TRUCK SAFETY (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); IMMIGRATION (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (62%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



557 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
NATO Launches Day Raids Against Fierce Resistance
NATO forces took their air and missile assault against Serbian targets into the daylight hours. President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia maintained fierce resistance on the ground and in the air. Two MIG-29 fighters were shot down during what NATO said was a foray into neighboring Bosnia. The sweep by Serb troops through ethnic Albanian villages in Kosovo was unabated. A1 

The Clinton Administration and a European security group said they had reports from refugees fleeing Kosovo and from others that 15,000 to 20,000 ethnic Albanian civilians were put on a forced march in Kosovo. A1
 
The Security Council rejected, 12 to 3, a Russian resolution demanding an immediate end to NATO's air attacks on Yugoslavia. A7
 
The twin-tail Yugoslav MIG-29's are among the world's top fighter jets. But NATO has radar planes to track their every move, long-range air-to-air missiles and better-trained pilots, who anticipate the Yugoslav pilots' antiquated Soviet-style tactics. A5
 
Republican Presidential contenders are divided over whether the United States should play a role in Serbia. Most said President Clinton had a misguided foreign policy that led to American entanglement there. A6
 
U.S. Seeks Censure of China
The Administration said it would sponsor a United Nations resolution next month condemning Beijing for what the resolution called the wholesale violation of human rights. A3
 
Questions in China Spy Case
The F.B.I. has found and questioned a Chinese researcher in connection with the Government's investigation into China's suspected theft of American nuclear secrets from the Los Alamos National Laboratory, officials said. A3
 
Toll at 35 in Alps Tunnel Fire
French and Italian officials said at least 35 people had died in a fire inside the Mont Blanc Alpine tunnel. A3
 
U.S.-Russia Deal for Uranium
Russia and the United States have quietly signed an agreement that salvages a $12 billion deal intended to help Russia convert uranium from its nuclear weapons into fuel for American nuclear reactors. A4
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A9-12; 18
 
Kevorkian Is Convicted Of Murdering a Dying Man
Dr. Jack Kevorkian, who has said he helped more than 130 people commit suicide, was convicted of second-degree murder for giving a fatal injection to a man with a terminal illness. Dr. Kevorkian, 70, faces a minimum of 10 to 25 years in prison. A1
 
3d Tourist's Body Identified
Officials in California said they had identified the third body of the three women who disappeared six weeks ago during a trip to Yosemite National Park. Two bodies had been found in the burned-out car and the third, that of Julie Sund, 15, was found along a road leading to the park. A11
 
Minister Is Found Guilty
An ecclesiastical court found a United Methodist Church minister guilty of breaking church law by having blessed the union of two gay men. The Rev. Greg Dell could lose his ministerial credentials. A9
 
Limits on Diabetes Drug Urged
An advisory panel urged the F.D.A. to place stricter limits on the use of the diabetes drug Rezulin, which has been linked in reports to deaths and liver damage. A9
 
Official's Anger at H.M.O.'s
The Massachusetts Secretary of State, reacting to complaints about prescription coverage for the elderly, said he would pursue legal proceedings that could strip H.M.O.'s of nonprofit status, and perhaps the tax exemptions that come with it. A11
 
Birth From Dead Man's Sperm
A California woman has given birth to a girl using sperm retrieved from her dead husband, raising ethical questions over whether a man must give his consent to be a father. A11
 
Review of Prayer Ruling Asked
Gov. George W. Bush asked a Federal appeals court to reconsider its ruling that student-led prayers before football games at public high schools in Texas are unconstitutional. A10
 
Forewoman Silences Herself
The forewoman of the grand jury that investigated the Monica Lewinsky matter said, through her lawyers, that she would have no further public comment on her experience. The independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr met privately with the judge overseeing the grand jury. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Street Crime Unit Is Overhauled by Safir
Police Commissioner Howard Safir made changes in the Street Crime Unit intended to avert confrontations like the one in which four white officers gunned down Amadou Diallo, an unarmed black man. Among the changes, 50 of the 380 members in the mostly white plainclothes unit will be replaced by minority officers, and all officers will be in uniform. A1
 
Labor Drive Against Budget
The new head of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., Denis M. Hughes, is leading his labor federation on an offensive against Governor Pataki's budget, beginning with more than 2,500 union members distributing leaflets on Tuesday in New York, Buffalo, Syracuse and seven other cities. B3
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-17
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
It Will Be Williams vs. Williams
Serena Williams will face her sister, Venus, in the final of the Lipton Championships tomorrow, following their respective victories over Martina Hingis and Steffi Graf. D1
 
The Women's Final Four
Duke advanced to the N.C.A.A. title game by beating Georgia, 81-69. Duke will face No. 1 Purdue, which defeated Louisiana Tech, 77-63. D1
 
Joe Torre Makes Appearance
The Yanks' manager held a closed-door clubhouse meeting to assure his players that he is recovering from prostate cancer surgery. D2
 
OBITUARIES C16
 
Arthur E. Raymond
The leader of the team that designed the DC-3, one of aviation's most durable workhorses, was 99. C16
 
Jean Guitton
The French Catholic philosopher and author, and a friend of popes and French presidents, was 97. C16
 
William Floyd Bringle
A decorated aviator who led naval air forces in Europe and the Pacific in World War II, he was 85. C16
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-15
 
Renault-Nissan Deal
Renault's plan to invest $5 billion in Nissan Motor was formally announced in Tokyo today. C1
 
Over-the-Border Car Dealing
American entrepreneurs have been buying tens of thousands of vehicles cheaply at Canadian dealerships and reselling them in the United States, making substantial profits and in the process sidestepping American fuel-economy rules. C1
 
Assessing Next Fed Meeting
The Fed is almost certain to leave interest rates unchanged when its policy-making committee meets on Tuesday, analysts say, but the central bank remains wary of resurgent inflation because of the economy's continued strength. C1
 
Stock Markets Slip
The Dow fell 14.15 points, to 9,822.24; the S.& P. 500 dropped 7.19 points, to 1,282.80, and the Nasdaq declined 15.63 points, to 2,419.17. C4
 
Toy Retailer Executive Departs
Bruce W. Krysiak resigned as president and chief operating officer of Toys "R" Us, just a year after coming to the retailer as second in command. C3
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: Russia and the I.M.F.; Dr. Kevorkian's luck runs out; show us the money; Tina Rosenberg on the Orioles' trip to Cuba.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B14
 
TV Listings B17
 
Crossword B15
 
Weather B15
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); ALBANIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALPS (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); MONT BLANC (53%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); ALBANIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ITALY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALPS (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); MONT BLANC (53%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MURDER (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (72%); REFUGEES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); FIRES (68%); DEATH & DYING (67%); MOUNTAINS (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); ESPIONAGE (64%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); NATIONAL PARKS (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



558 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BRIEFS;
South Korea Sells Stake In State Power Company

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
South Korea sold a 4.3 percent stake in Korea Electric Power Corporation yesterday, raising at least $655 million in a crucial test of investor confidence in the nation's battered economy. The Government sold 54.61 million global depository receipts, which trade in the United States and Britain, for $12 each. 
 It said it had orders for an additional 8.2 million, meaning it could raise a total of $753.6 million. The Government is raising money to revamp its ailing banks and companies. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEP (NYSE) (91%); 015760 (KSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORP KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1999



559 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 17; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Market Makeover

BYLINE: By Fen Montaigne; Fen Montaigne, a former Moscow correspondent for The Philadelphia Inquirer, is the author of "Reeling In Russia."

 BODY:

KAPITALIZM
 Russia's Struggle
 to Free Its Economy.
 By Rose Brady.
 Illustrated. 289 pp. New Haven:
 Yale University Press. $30. 
 In little more than a decade, Russia has been transformed in the minds of most Americans from menace to muddle. No realm seems hazier than the effort by Boris N. Yeltsin and company to metamorphose the Communist economy into a capitalist proving ground, an exercise some liken to putting a scrambled egg back in its shell. The 1990's present a swirl of images: bundled-up babushkas taking to the streets to peddle their possessions as free prices and inflation hit, buzz-cut mobsters rubbing one another out with Capone-like gusto, the trappings of the West's good life -- from the Golden Arches to Mercedes sedans -- flooding the country.
In fact, though we may not have grasped it, one of the most daring social experiments in history has unfolded before our eyes. And in "Kapitalizm," Rose Brady admirably chronicles, step by step, how Yeltsin's young reformers fought to dismantle the insanely complex Soviet economy and construct a free-market society in its place.
Often it is not a pretty story, but Brady is able to see past the blundering and corruption and appreciate the achievement that has taken place: Eight years after the demise of the Soviet Union, private enterprise accounts for 70 percent of Russia's economic production, and -- most important -- the psychology of many Russians has irretrievably changed. "The task, then, was to dismantle the machine," she writes of Anatoly Chubais, who led Yeltsin's privatization drive. "He had come up against fierce opponents of reform, and in the political-economic game that ensued he had not always played clean. But he had kept his eye on the prize. The prize was a non-Communist Russia in which private property dominated the economy."
The transformation of Russia's economy is a sprawling and byzantine tale, and Brady, a former Moscow correspondent for Business Week, is well qualified to tell it. As could be expected, the reform process has been a constant round of two steps forward, one step back, with Communist die-hards in Parliament and the so-called Red Directors of state factories resisting the march to capitalism. Brady skillfully relates the missteps and compromises that Yeltsin's team made along the way. Nowhere was the maneuvering trickier than in the privatization of state-owned business and industry, the cornerstone of the market makeover.
At one point, Chubais permitted several major banks, which had provided the Government with much-needed loans, to acquire large blocks of shares in industrial giants, like Norilsk Nickel, through shady auctions. Such insider deals enabled a handful of financial institutions to gain control over large segments of the economy at bargain-basement prices. But Chubais, fearful that a Communist victory in 1995 parliamentary elections might derail privatization, wanted to make the process irreversible. Unloading factories and oil companies to private investors, however improperly, did just that. The year after, Brady explains, the oligarchs showed their gratitude, plowing by some estimates $140 million into Yeltsin's victorious re-election campaign.
"Kapitalizm" is at its best when Brady takes readers behind the scenes of machinations like these, or when she recounts the rise of Russia's new magnates. Her story falls short, however, in describing the effects of the reforms on average Russians. To be sure, the book is replete with man-on-the-street interviews, but closely following one or two families over the past eight years would have been more effective.
Still, "Kapitalizm" is one of the most coherent accounts to date of the disassembly of the economy of the Evil Empire. Now, with Russia mired in its worst crisis to date, all involved acknowledge that the task has been far more daunting than they ever imagined.
"We . . . did not comprehend the enormity of the process we were dealing with," Chubais says. "We thought it was a difficult transition that would last three years, five years, seven years. Now it's clear that the transition will last decades." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: KAPITALIZM: RUSSIA'S STRUGGLE TO FREE ITS ECONOMY (BOOK)

TICKER: NNIA (FRA) (58%); MNOD (LSE) (58%); GMKN (RTS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (58%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (58%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: OJSC MMC NORILSK NICKEL (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); SEDANS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); 

PERSON: MONTAIGNE, FEN; BRADY, ROSE ROSE BRADY (94%); ANATOLY CHUBAIS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



560 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Ghost Town

BYLINE: By Larry Wolff; Larry Wolff teaches European history at Boston College. He is the author of "Inventing Eastern Europe: The Map of Civilization on the Mind of the Enlightenment."

 BODY:

THE BOOK OF BLAM
 By Aleksandar Tisma.
 Translated by Michael Henry Heim.
 226 pp. New York:
 Harcourt Brace & Company. $23. 
 In the opening pages of Aleksandar Tisma's "Book of Blam," the eponymous protagonist, Miroslav Blam, sets out for a stroll through the city of Novi Sad in Tito's Yugoslavia. He finds himself drawn to what was once the street of the Jews, before the war, now "the destination of many idle strollers like Blam." He is not, however, just any idle stroller, for Blam is one of the few Jewish survivors in Novi Sad, and he can remember the street when it was inhabited by the now annihilated Jewish population of the city. Following in Blam's footsteps, in a stunning literary excursion, Tisma conjures the names and fates of the former inhabitants. He recounts what occurred at each address after Hitler defeated Yugoslavia in 1941 and Hungary, Germany's ally, occupied the city of Novi Sad:
"No. 13 housed Arthur Spitzer's grocery and delicatessen. Spitzer played amateur soccer and had non-Jewish friends. Having married a Hungarian and converted before the war, he was spared persecution. He had no children of his own, but his sister sent him her 6-year-old daughter from the Independent State of Croatia, where Jews had an even harder time of it. . . . For a while his baptismal certificate, Christian wife and soccer friends protected him. On the day his young Jewish niece was to be deported, Spitzer and his wife went to the station with her, hoping to save her with their papers and connections. They were all crammed into a train for Auschwitz."
Tisma builds his novel around the fictional figure of Blam, who does escape deportation, in part because he, like Arthur Spitzer, has a non-Jewish wife. Blam becomes the focus for the literary reconstruction of a demolished urban landscape and society, represented according to the intricate historical circumstances of Eastern Europe during World War II. First published in Yugoslavia in 1972, now powerfully translated by Michael Henry Heim from the language that used to be called Serbo-Croatian, "The Book of Blam" offers a literary memorial to the former Jews of the former Yugoslavia.
Novi Sad is a name perhaps best known to the American public as the hometown of the tennis superstar Monica Seles -- cited in sports stories as a place where the scarcity of acceptable tennis courts for training inevitably compelled Seles to migrate to America at 12. Novi Sad played a considerably more complicated part in European history, its urban development dating to the 18th century, when the city grew up alongside the Danube, facing the great Hapsburg fortress of Petrovaradin. In the 19th century Novi Sad became a center of Serbian literary culture, though the city had a heterogeneous population of Serbs, Hungarians, Germans and Jews. It was the principal city of the Vojvodina province, itself a geographical crossroads of even greater ethnographic diversity, including large communities of Croatians and Romanians. Thus Novi Sad reflected the multinational character of the Hapsburg monarchy, before being assigned to Yugoslavia in the peace settlement following World War I.
Tisma traces a fictional family history of migrating Hapsburg Jews through the whole 19th century and across the map of Eastern Europe, showing how the parents of Miroslav Blam happened to settle in Novi Sad. The most remarkable of Tisma's literary historical accounts, however, is that of the massacre of 1942 in Novi Sad, perpetrated by the Hungarian military. The Hungarian population of Novi Sad lived under Yugoslav sovereignty after World War I; the Serbian population was handed over by Hitler to Hungarian rule during World War II. Tisma begins with an urban map: "Look at the map of Novi Sad, and you will see a kind of spider's web intersecting on one side with a broad ribbon in the form of a half circle but extending evenly in all other directions. The ribbon, usually colored blue, is the Danube." He then imagines the Hungarian officers plotting their murderous raid from that same map -- they divided the spiderweb of the city's streets into several hundred smaller webs, assigning patrols to each" -- and follows the patrols as they check documents and order executions. Thousands of Jews and Serbs were killed in the massacre, and Tisma attempts to convey the atrocity of the historical moment by describing what happened in a sampling of houses and neighborhoods. One of the patrols comes to the house of Blam's parents, who are promptly taken outside and shot.
Other works by Tisma also explore the experience of World War II in Novi Sad, including "The Use of Man," which has been translated into English. Some of the same regional terrain also appears in the fiction of Danilo Kis, who, like Tisma, came from Vojvodina and wrote about the situation of Yugoslav Jews during the war. Tisma himself was associated with Tito's Partisans during the war and afterward played a prominent role in Yugoslav literary life during the decades of Communism. "The Book of Blam" has a young Communist heroine -- Blam's sister Estera, who is killed in the Resistance as she throws her last grenade. Hers is one of the ghosts that haunts Blam after the war. Another is that of the novel's political villain, Predrag Popadic, a handsome young rake who collaborates with the Hungarian occupation by editing a Serbian newspaper in Novi Sad. He seduces Blam's mother and, later, Blam's wife as well (though not, of course, Estera) but attempts to use his influence to protect the Blam family under the Hungarian occupation. After the liberation of Novi Sad the victorious Communist Partisans arrest Popadic and summarily execute him beside the Danube, blowing his brains out with a dumdum bullet.
Tito's Yugoslavia was politically constructed as the federal union of six separate republics: Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia, Macedonia and Montenegro. The republic of Serbia included two autonomous provinces: one was Kosovo, with its large Albanian majority, and the other was Vojvodina, with its large Hungarian minority. Novi Sad was the provincial capital of the multinational Vojvodina, and the name of the city was also associated with the affirmation of cultural unity in Yugoslavia, for it was the Novi Sad linguistic agreement of 1954 that declared Serbo-Croatian to be a single language, spoken in two dialects and written in two scripts. Tisma wrote his novel in Serbo-Croatian, but today both Serbs and Croats insist on the distinction between Serbian and Croatian.
Serbian nationalists demonstrated in Novi Sad in 1988, toppling the provincial government and paving the way for Slobodan Milosevic to abolish autonomy in both Vojvodina and Kosovo. The overturning of the intricate Titoist constitution, with its calculated structure of checks and balances among the nationalities, has severely reduced the cultural protections and prerogatives of the Hungarians, as well as the several other minorities, in Vojvodina. Tisma, living in France, has bitterly condemned the brutal warfare that continues to accompany the disintegration of Yugoslavia, and "The Book of Blam," looking back to Novi Sad in World War II, explores the political pressures by which a multinational urban community became the site of murderous internecine enmity. Indeed, the various remembered and misremembered versions of what happened during World War II in Yugoslavia have certainly contributed to the violence of national conflict in the 1990's.
Tisma describes the assembling of the Jews of Novi Sad in the city's synagogue in 1944, as they awaited deportation to the concentration camps: "The Jews sat patiently within the confines of the synagogue; the guards did their duty meticulously, showing anger only in the street, when they had to disperse curious onlookers -- one group of which included a dejected-looking Blam, exempt because of his marriage.
"The only discordant note in this otherwise harmonious waiting period came from the animal world rather than the human world; it came in the form of the dogs that had trotted alongside their masters to the synagogue and that remained outside when the guards refused to let them through the gates."
Tisma thus follows the deportation from the perspective of the confused dogs, who cannot figure out the unfathomable human logic of the Holocaust. The novel returns to the synagogue for the final chapter, in which Blam attends a concert of the Novi Sad Chamber Orchestra, performed in the former temple, now best appreciated for its excellent acoustics. In the synagogue, with its handsomely surviving cupolas, pillars, chandeliers and mosaics, Blam's inner acoustical sensitivity focuses his memory with excruciating clarity on his family and their community, which did not survive the terrible course of the 20th century. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); HUNGARY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

COMPANY: HARCOURT BRACE & CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); HUNGARY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); HISTORY (76%); CITIES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AMATEUR SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (67%); DEPORTATION (64%); TENNIS (64%); SPORTS (64%); 

PERSON: MIROSLAV BLAM (95%); ALEKSANDAR TISMA (95%); ARTHUR SPITZER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



561 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2156 words

HEADLINE: The Many Messages Of the Lei

BYLINE: By JOCELYN FUJII; JOCELYN FUJII is the author of "Under the Hula Moon" (Crown), a book about style in Hawaii.

 BODY:
I BUY at least 50 leis a year. If I had the materials and the time I would make them myself, but I don't, so I buy them -- for birthdays, weddings, retirements, funerals, graduations, Lei Day (May 1), friends and their friends arriving in Hawaii from out of town, and sometimes, for no reason at all, just to place on my own shoulders.
Most of the time, how and where I buy the lei depends on the occasion and the recipient. A designer lei, ordered ahead from an artisan and wrapped in a special ti-leaf bundle, called puolo, is top of the line. Honolulu's Chinatown is the middle road, where leis are abundant and always available, and you point and pick and run off with your choice in a plastic bag. The lei stands at Honolulu International Airport, where hideous spray-painted carnation strands hang side by side with fragrant ginger and pikake, are always the last resort -- the 7-Eleven of the lei world. 
 "There are very few leis that are not good," said Marie McDonald, a well-known lei maker from Waimea on the Big Island and author of "Ka Lei," the definitive book on leis (Ku Paa Publishing). "They're all good, because the whole idea of presenting a lei is to show honor, to show high regard, love. And you can do it with every lei. But, over the years, some have become more special than others."
The lei may be the quintessential symbol of a Hawaiian greeting, but history, legend and superstition have created some arcane elements in the protocol of this beloved Hawaiian custom.
I learned about lei protocol the hard way. Many years ago, I gave a friend a lei of red hala, made from the fragrant fruit of the pandanus tree, at the start of a business venture. The lei maker in Chinatown had cut the ends of the cone-shaped fruit and strung them between the anise-scented tips of bright green lauae ferns, making an extraordinary composition of geometry, color and fragrance.
My friend expressed genuine appreciation. But my choice of lei, I was to learn, was controversial.
"Never give a hala lei at the start of a venture," a lei maker told me on a subsequent foray to Chinatown. "Only at the end. People think it's bad luck." Other lei makers disagree, saying the hala is one of the nicest that can be given, but local politicians on the campaign trail have been known to scurry off the stage at the sight of a well-wisher approaching with a hala lei.
In times before Western contact, commoners giving leis to royalty had to present them to an intermediary with a bow, observing a taboo against raising their nonroyal hands above the head of an alii. Violators could face punishment as severe as death. Western influences, particularly the tourist industry, have tempered tradition and added some flourishes, such as Lei Day, initiated in 1928 by the poet Don Blanding, an Oklahoma native living in Hawaii, in an effort to preserve the custom.
Lei Day today is a statewide celebration, with a royal court selected every year, school pageants, the ubiquitous giving and wearing of leis, and an islandwide lei making contest with the most flamboyant display of garlands to be seen in Hawaii. Even the practice of giving a kiss with a lei, commonly observed today, was established by a World War II entertainer who claimed it was a Hawaiian custom.
"Traditionally, Hawaiians embrace each other or touch noses when they give a lei," said Mrs. McDonald, the lei maker from Waimea.
"The kissing is very touristy," added Barbara Meheula, another revered lei maker on the Big Island. "The most precious thing to a Hawaiian is breath, the ha. The old-timers will put their cheek next to the person receiving the lei and softly give them the ha, the breath, because everything you have in your heart is in the ha."
The practice of throwing a lei overboard in hopes that it reaches the shore, thus predicting a return to the islands, was popularized during the 1930's through the 1950's, the heyday of the luxury liners. But Hawaiians "never throw away their leis, " Mrs. McDonald said. After it is worn, a lei is draped over a photograph or taken to the cemetery or returned to the earth as compost, but never put in the wastebasket. Most leis will keep overnight in the refrigerator, in a plastic bag. Many can be dried; a light mist of hair spray helps keep bugs away while they dry, Mrs. Meheula said.
There are dos and don'ts in receiving a lei, too.
"Don't ever take a lei off and swing it around," advised Euphemia Nagashima, former Hawaiiana coordinator for Honolulu's Department of Parks and Recreation, which organizes the annual Hawaiian Lei Contest on Lei Day. "No matter how simple, someone put a lot of love into that lei."
A more common offense is removing a lei after it has been received, which Hawaiians consider rude.
Some leis, such as hala, favored by the likes of Hiiaka, sister of the volcano goddess, Pele, were considered by the ancients to be as much good luck as bad. Hala may be "the most misunderstood of all the leis," Mrs. Meheula added, "probably because it is also the most cherished.
"For every single New Year luau, everyone in my family wears a hala lei," she said. "It's good luck for the year, because hala means cleansing, like firecrackers for the Chinese and mochi for the Japanese."
Hala represented good luck during the monthslong Makahiki season of feasting and thanksgiving. "In the old days, the only time you could get married was during Makahiki, and the lei that was often given was hala," said Mrs. Meheula. Yet the Hawaiian Dictionary by Mary Kawena Pukui and Samuel H. Elbert defines hala as "sin," "offense," and also "to pass away, to die." Hala is the ultimate flower lei for a funeral.
Leis most popularly used to greet visitors are the sweetly scented, yellow-and-white plumeria, white tuberose, ginger, pikake (Arabian jasmine), and the unscented, lavender to purple dendrobium and vanda orchids, strung in several styles ranging from prosaic to exquisite. The dainty yellow-green pakalana (Chinese violet) is less known but much loved by islanders, particularly the old-timers. ("Give me a full moon and a pakalana lei, and I'll say yes to anything," my meditation teacher, Nana Veary, used to say with a mischievous smile.)
The heavily scented blossoms (or extremely feminine ones, like roses) are usually given to women, while the unscented lei, like the feathery aalii and the cigar lei, made of the cigar flower, or kika, which can be red, orange or yellow, are typically chosen for men.
The tissue-thin ilima blossom, picked early in the morning while the buds are just opening and strung while the day is still cool, was traditionally preferred by the alii because of its beauty and sensuality, according to Mrs. McDonald. An ilima lei was once accepted as payment for taxes, along with pigs and sweet potatoes, and is still considered "the lei of distinction," she said, worn in multiple strands on special occasions such as election night.
The three most common types of lei making are the kui method, in which materials are strung end to end; haku, or plaited, and wili, or wound. Knotting and stitching are used in more ambitious creations. The kui method uses string or thread; other leis are generally made of plant material only. It can take from five minutes to four hours to make a lei, Mrs. Meheula said.
At the top of the lei hierarchy, and among the more expensive, are the native plants that were offered to Laka, the Hawaiian goddess of the dance, still honored by hula schools today. The most visible and accessible among these is maile, a green-leafed vine that is wound into open-ended strands that emit heady clouds of anise-like fragrance. At blessings to open new buildings and businesses, long strands of maile are entwined in front of the entrance and untied ceremoniously (never cut) to signify that the blessing is complete. In ancient times, maile was the lei for all people, while leis of feathers and sperm whale teeth were strictly reserved for royalty.
Maile leis also are given at graduations and other celebrations. "Parents will hike in a storm to gather maile for their child's graduation, because it signifies that the child will continue to grow and have life," Mrs. Meheula said. "Maile represents life and growth."
The most astonishing maile lei I have ever laid eyes on was made by a master woodworker on Kauai, Bob Hamada. He was well into his 70's when, for his daughter's high school graduation, he hiked into the mountains and gathered maile and mokihana -- rare, cube-shaped seed capsules also strongly scented like anise. Mokihana retains its prized scent for years. It grows only on Kauai, and it is rare to see even one strand of it, much less several. Mr. Hamada strung five very long, graduated strands of mokihana -- up to almost six feet long -- and rested them on a luxurious bed of maile, to protect his daughter's skin from the powerful "mokihana burn." So powerful is mokihana that it burns delicate skin and is often worn over clothing or a protective bed of foliage.
There are many lei connoisseurs, including Mrs. Meheula, who feel that the packaging of a lei is as important as the lei itself. Mrs. Meheula makes her own containers -- puolo -- out of ti leaves, palm and coconut fronds, and, occasionally, bamboo. When someone once ordered a lei for a blind recipient, she chose fragrant pikake for the lei and carved a bamboo container -- a tactile and olfactory extravaganza.
Brides often wear multiple strands of pikake and ginger, while bridegrooms wear maile. Although leis of ultraluxurious Niihau shells are often worn by a bride in 10 long strands, fresh flowers tend to be worn at chest length, "where the heart is," Mrs. Meheula said. "And they should always be closed, representing the eternal circle of love." The bridegroom's open maile lei, she continues, "welcomes all the good wishes of the guests and sends out the same on behalf of the family."
New styles and materials in lei making keep the art form vibrant and evolving. The Micronesian ginger lei -- white ginger buds fanning outward from stems woven macrame-style -- is a fairly recent, and economical, innovation, introduced by visitors from low-lying Micronesian islands where blossoms are less abundant. The ti-leaf lei is now in every Chinatown lei stand in Honolulu, the shiny, ropey strands paired with various nouveau materials such as berrylike red schefflera (octopus tree) flowers and rounded green sea grapes. Non-native, common and culturally insignificant, the schefflera and sea grapes -- a mokihana look-alike -- represent the more commercial aspects of modern lei making.
In contrast, the orchid lip lei, also called the feathered orchid lei, is a marvel of ingenuity, made of up to 800 dendrobium orchid petals, sewn flat in a dramatic, wavy, purple-and-white design. The lei has no fragrance but is visually stunning. Various lei makers claim to have invented this now-popular (and lavish) lei. One of them, Michael Miyashiro of Rainforest Plantes et Fleurs on Oahu, has pictures of some he made in 1988, long before they began appearing in Chinatown lei stands.
"It doesn't matter who invented it," he said when I admired the photos. "A lei is meant to be given, and it's simply a part of you, for someone else to wear and enjoy."
 
Where they say it with flowers
 
Contest
The entries in this year's Hawaiian Lei Contest, sponsored by the Honolulu Department of Parks and Recreation, will be on view on Saturday, May 1, from 12:30 to 6 P.M. at Queen Kapiolani Park in Waikiki.
 
Buying
On Oahu, lei stands line the streets of Honolulu's Chinatown. Among them are Lin's Lei Shop, 1017A Maunakea Street, (808) 537-4112; Cindy's Lei and Flower Shoppe, 1034 Maunakea Street, (808) 536-6538; Lita's Leis, 59 North Beretania Street, (808) 521-9065, and Sweetheart's Lei Shop, 69 North Beretania Street, (808) 537-3011.
Prices start around $3 for a simple tuberose lei and range up to $25 and higher for elaborate orchid creations.
The designer lei makers of Hawaii include Barbara Meheula, who arranges flowers at the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel, on the Big Island of Hawaii, (808) 882-7222, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, from around 5 A.M. to noon. (Visitors are welcome to watch her work there.) At other times she can be reached at her Honaunau farm, (808) 328-9749. Leis must be preordered; a maile or pikake lei in a natural wrapping such as ti leaves averages $35 to $40.
On Oahu, Michael Miyashiro of Rainforest Plantes et Fleurs, (808) 942-1550, is available by phone only. His leis of dendrobium orchid petals cost around $32 to $80.
Museum-quality Niihau shell leis, the most luxurious of the permanent lei styles, are available at Kauai Heritage Center of Hawaiian Culture and the Arts, Kauai Shopping Village, (808) 821-2070. They range from $85 to $6,500, depending on the type of shell and the intricacy of the design.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stringing a lei at a Honolulu shop. Luana Gomes selling leis at a pageant in Waimea. Sophia's Lei Stand at Honolulu airport. The lei maker Marie McDonald at her Waimea home. (Photographs by Peter French for The New York Times; center photograph by Douglas Peebles)(pg. 10); A customer receives a lei at the Old Hawaii on Horseback pageant on the big island. (Peter French for The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (96%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (96%); HAWAII, USA (96%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); WRITERS (71%); AIRPORTS (53%); 

PERSON: FUJII, JOCELYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



562 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: New Luxury Towers Are Sprouting in Chicago

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
AFTER a decade-long drought in new construction, downtown Chicago is suddenly awash in new luxury apartment towers. About half a dozen towers are currently rising on the Near North and South Sides, several in neighborhoods not previously known as high-end residential enclaves.
In the past, luxury housing in Chicago tended to be concentrated in the Gold Coast, a neighborhood a mile north of the Loop and consisting of Lake Shore Drive and three streets to the west. But none of the new buildings are in this area. 
 Instead, several are either on or just off Michigan Avenue, while the rest are in neighborhoods that for most of this century have been industrial and commercial areas.
How is luxury defined in Chicago? The most common definition is a purchase price of more than $300 per square foot.
Informally, however, brokers and developers say that a luxury apartment starts at about $1 million. All of the new buildings contain at least some apartments at that price level.
"There used to be a real difference between what you got for $300,000 and what you got for $700,000," said James Kinney, president of Rubloff Residential Properties, a leading downtown brokerage. "Now, to get that same 'wow factor' you're talking at least a million dollars."
This is relatively new ground in Chicago. Five years ago, according to data from the local multiple listing service, there were 33 sales of $1 million or more downtown. In the last 14 months, however, there have been 122 sales, with an additional 56 million-dollar-plus units currently under contract.
Why the run-up in prices at a time when inflation remains at historic lows? "There's just a lot more money in Chicago today then there was at the beginning of the decade," said Diane Swonk, deputy chief economist at Bank One Corporation here. "The economy has been booming and it doesn't take many years of 20 percent returns on assets to create a lot of disposable income."
If the numbers in the demand side of the equation are up, the numbers on the supply side are down. "This is the tightest market for luxury sales I can remember," said Joan Armstrong, a broker with Koenig & Strey who has specialized in Gold Coast real estate for more than 20 years. "There is very little to show people. If they're nice apartments, they're gone in a week, often for more than the asking price."
Of the new buildings under construction, the most notable are Park Tower, the Bristol and Riverview, with Park Tower in particular perceived as a premier luxury address.
Park Tower, on the west side of Water Tower Square at the corner of Michigan and Chicago Avenues, is a joint venture of Hyatt Corporation and LR Development. The architect is Lucien Lagrange, principal of Lucien Lagrange and Associates, a firm noted locally for innovative residential work.
The building, a streamlined 67-story Art Deco affair clad in cream-colored stone, will open in the summer of 2000. The first 20 floors will be occupied by the 203-room Park Hyatt Hotel. The rest will consist of 115 condominium units, including eight full-floor penthouses. Condominium prices range from $617,000 to $3.5 million, with an average of more than $1 million.
According to Bruce Abrams, president of LR Development, all of the penthouses have been sold and all but five of the remaining units are spoken for.
"We researched the market and found that people wanted the service and amenities that go with a hotel, but not the traffic and congestion," he said. The solution, he added, was to have two entrances -- one for the hotel on Chicago Avenue and another for the condominium around the corner on Water Tower Square. Tenants also will be able to order room service from the hotel and will have access to the hotel's lavish health club.
THE building is extravagantly scaled, with apartments up to 10,000 square feet and with ceiling heights up to 15 feet. All of the units face east and have clear views of Lake Michigan.
"We wanted the same feel you get in some of the classic Lake Shore Drive apartment buildings from the 20's and 30's," said Mr. Lagrange, the architect. "The wasted space is really what makes those old apartments special -- the galleries and vestibules and hallways and niches. These aren't spaces that you eat or sleep in, but there's something comfortable about them and also very elegant."
Mr. Lagrange is personally designing several of the apartments in the building and says the dominant style is "more Beaux-Arts than Bauhaus. People want columns and moldings. It's very classical, very traditional."
Several blocks away, at the corner of Rush Street and Delaware Place, is the Bristol, a 41-story International Style tower being developed by Golub & Company. The architectural firm is Solomon Cordwell Buenz Associates, based in Chicago. The building's 189 units range in price from $275,000 to $1.4 million. According to Michael Newman, president of Golub, about 35 percent of the units have been sold so far. The building will be completed by the end of the year.
Both the Bristol and Park Tower are within easy walking distance of the Gold Coast. The third building, Riverview, has a more adventurous location. That bulding is part of an emerging neighborhood along the north bank of the Chicago River where it meets Lake Michigan. For most of Chicago's history, this land -- within shouting distance of the Loop -- has been occupied by warehouses and factories.
It is now being developed into a mixed-use neighborhood that includes residential, hotel and entertainment facilities as well as a pedestrian promenade along the river. Riverview, which is being developed by MCL Companies, will ultimately consist of three towers with a total of about 400 units and about 30 town houses. The architect is Gregory De Stefano of De Stefano and Partners, based in Chicago.
The first phase, which will open late in 2000, consists of a 98-apartment tower and nine town houses. The tower units start at about $285,000 and go up to $2 million while the town houses, which face the river, start at $1.1 million and go up to $2.1 million. According to Daniel McLean, president of MCL, 35 tower units and four town houses have been sold. "The site is spectacular -- you're surrounded by water on three sides," he said.
What do you get for a $1 million today? "Over 3,000 square feet of space, fancy kitchens with granite countertops, hardwood floors throughout, marble bathrooms, nine-foot ceilings and great views of the lake and downtown," said Mr. McLean.
The new luxury buyers, say developers, are a different crowd than in the past in that suburbanites make up a much bigger part of the mix. "In the 80's, maybe 10 to 15 percent of the downtown buyers were suburbanites," said Mr. McLean. "Today, it's 40 or 50 percent. Many are empty nesters in their early 50's with high incomes. They want to be downtown where there's lots to do."
"We're getting a surprising number of suburbanites -- probably 35 percent -- who are either moving to the city or are buying a second residence downtown," said Mr. Newman.
One such buyer is Harvey Kinzelberg, who, with his wife, Mary Ann, recently purchased a 4,000-square-foot penthouse at Park Tower. Mr. Kinzelberg, who is 54, is the founder of Sequel Capital Corporation, an industrial leasing firm based in suburban Deerfield.
Mr. Kinzelberg, who currently lives in Glencoe, a tony North Shore suburb, says he is ready for a change. "The children are grown and we want to experience the city -- the restaurants, the museums, the wonderful architecture. The city's vibrant and exciting. It's time for us to have some fun."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Park Tower, left, (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) will consist of a 20-story hotel topped by a 47-story condominium. Above, rendering of three-tower Riverview complex. It will include 30 town houses. (Gorski and Associates)
 
Map of Chicago highlighting locations of towers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (64%); JPM (LSE) (64%); 8634 (TSE) (64%); H (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (60%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (64%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (66%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



563 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2553 words

HEADLINE: Making Philadelphia More Friendly For Its Orchestra

BYLINE: By ANNE MIDGETTE; Anne Midgette writes frequently on international art, music and theater.

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
ASK a Philadelphian to name the most beloved building in the city, and chances are, the answer will be the Academy of Music. An elegant brick edifice on Broad Street, the Academy opened in 1857 and is the oldest continuously operating music hall in the United States. It has a passionate following among music lovers, many of whom regard it as virtually synonymous with its oldest resident company and landlord, the Philadelphia Orchestra.
Yet love can be blind, or in this case, deaf. The hall's acoustics are poor, at least for orchestral music. Built as an opera house, the Academy has a proscenium arch that traps the sound, which comes across in the auditorium as dry. As a result, said Peter Dobrin, a music critic for The Philadelphia Inquirer, "Philadelphians have never really heard the Philadelphia Orchestra." 
 He is not the first to notice. An emphatic article in a newspaper here stated that the Philadelphia Orchestra, the only major American ensemble to play on a proscenium stage, should have a proper hall of its own. That was in 1908. Successive generations have taken up the cry. Plans for a new hall were drawn up during the music directorships of Leopold Stokowski, Eugene Ormandy, Riccardo Muti and now Wolfgang Sawallisch.
Finally, a plan may be realized. Ground was broken last November for a new Regional Performing Arts Center, with a 2,500-seat symphony hall and a 650-seat recital theater, scheduled to open in 2001. The current project has also served to spotlight some of the orchestra's difficulties as it approaches its centenary season and tries to keep pace with the modern world.
In fact, the center, in its final form, is not an orchestra project at all. The Philadelphia Orchestra will move into its new home as a tenant, not a landlord. And the orchestra was ultimately glad to be rid of the responsibility. The question remains whether the center's new administration, will be able to repeat the success of other performing arts centers, from Lincoln Center in the 1960's to the New Jersey Performing Arts Center more recently, in revitalizing the community.
None of this was quite what the orchestra had in mind when it announced plans for a new hall in 1986. It purchased a site on Broad Street, a block south of the Academy, and commissioned the Philadelphia-based architect Robert Venturi to design the building, assuming that Philadelphians would flock to donate the $140 million needed to realize the project. But fund-raising efforts, marred by a degree of hubris, soon slowed.
"We raised $25 million and hit a plateau," said Joseph H. Kluger, who has since become the orchestra's president. "There was a latent emotional resistance from those attached to the idea of the Academy and the orchestra in it."
Among them were the leading philanthropists Walter H. Annenberg and R. Anderson Pew, who also sat on the orchestra's board. The Annenberg Foundation refused to give any money to the new hall project, and the Pew Charitable Trusts offered $1.5 million, which the orchestra undiplomatically rejected as being too low.
Indeed, Mr. Pew and Mr. Annenberg did have funds for another project, proposed in 1994: a thorough overhaul of the Academy, at a projected cost of $44 million. Renovation was certainly overdue. The building's technical facilities were outdated, and its very structure proved increasingly unsound. Yet the renovation initially planned was so high-tech that it would have compromised the building's architectural integrity.
The unspoken goal was to turn the Academy into such a modern hall that the orchestra would have no reason to leave. The Pew trust chipped in $7.5 million and the Annenberg Foundation $10 million for the project. The renovation is still in progress, although the plan was ultimately scaled down to focus on restoring, rather than transforming, the Academy, to the tune of $31 million.
Plans for a new hall, meanwhile, seemed to have ground to a halt. The orchestra was having problems of its own, culminating in a debilitating 64-day strike in 1996. The strike ended with both sides working on constructive changes, like instituting a range of players' committees to give musicians a more active role in the orchestra's business life.
At that point, Philadelphia's colorful, charismatic mayor, Edward G. Rendell, assumed a major role. Since taking office in 1991, Mr. Rendell has overseen the transformation of a sleepy Philadelphia, a conservative city that abhorred change, into a more active place. Center City, as the downtown area is called, is dotted with construction sites, including 15 new hotels to accommodate visitors to the five-year-old convention center. All of this has bolstered the city's morale, and both Mr. Rendell and Willard G. Rouse, the developer responsible for the convention center and other major buildings, enjoy widespread popularity.
One of Mr. Rendell's pet projects is the Avenue of the Arts, which has basically redefined South Broad Street by developing its theaters and other arts facilities. Mr. Rendell is motivated less by a great love of the arts -- he prefers sports -- than by his idea of the changing definition of a city in today's world: no longer a necessary hub of commerce and industry, in an age of telecommunications, which have effectively decentralized business activity, but a "destination," a place for tourism and conventions.
"When I came to office, we were desperate to get out of economic crisis" Mr. Rendell said. "One way to do that was to build up Philadelphia's status as a destination. We need to make Philadelphia attractive for companies."
Whatever his motivation, Mr. Rendell became an energetic champion of the new hall, and he marshaled a group of community leaders, including Mr. Rouse, to find solutions that would enable it to be built. It was this group that developed the idea of acquiring both the Broad Street site and the Academy from the orchestra and managing both facilities for a number of resident companies, including the opera and the ballet. And it was this group that ultimately became the board of the Regional Performing Arts Center in 1997, with Mr. Rouse as chairman.
Adding other arts companies to the mix afforded further justification for civic involvement, demonstrating that the new hall project was about more than just the orchestra's wish for better acoustics. Philadelphia suffers from a chronic lack of performance space. In a 1992 study analyzing the number of seats in performing-arts facilities in 15 major American cities, Philadelphia, the fifth-largest city in the United States, came in last. San Francisco has about 8,400 seats per million residents; New York, 6,000; Philadelphia, between 600 and 800.
The Academy is desperately overcrowded. It has two resident companies besides the orchestra -- the Pennsylvania Ballet and the Opera Company of Philadelphia -- both straining to get more time. The thriving opera company, restricted to 30 evenings a year, has had to turn away would-be subscribers. The ballet performs "The Nutcracker" as many as three times a day to make the most of its window of opportunity; when it can't get into the Academy, it wanders from hall to hall, like other arts institutions in the city.
What's more, larger touring ensembles, from orchestras to Broadway shows, pass Philadelphia by. "When you think about the Vienna Philharmonic coming to this country and not coming to Philadelphia," said Stephanie Naidoff, the new center's president, "it leaves you salivating."
Ms. Naidoff, a corporate lawyer, and the center's other administrators have little experience in the arts, but thanks to Mr. Rouse, they knew about building. They threw out the Venturi plans and commissioned the architect Rafael Vinoly to design the new center. His plans, with two individual halls inside a glass barrel vault, were unveiled last April and became one of those rare things that Philadelphians agree upon. The enthusiasm generated $50 million in donations by the time of the groundbreaking, six months later.
BUT the price tag has gone up considerably over the years, and the center, despite having received $73 million of state and city funds, is still $50 million short of its $255 million goal. And the Annenberg and Pew foundations are still withholding support.
"Certain large trusts have yet to recognize their responsibilities," said Sidney Kimmel, the chairman and director of Jones Apparel Group and, with a pledge of $15 million, the largest private donor to the center. "I see it as that, a responsibility."
Mr. Annenberg, a 91-year-old publishing magnate and former ambassador to Great Britain, who declines comment to the press, is evidently simply opposed to the idea of a new hall. In 1992, according to an article in The Philadelphia Inquirer, he specified that none of his $20 million donation to the Avenue of the Arts should go toward the new hall project.
With the Pew trust, the issue is different. Conscious of its leading role as a patron of the arts in the United States, the foundation in 1997 introduced new guidelines for the distribution of funds to Philadelphia organizations. This Cultural Leadership Program has made waves by cutting off longtime recipients that fail to meet new criteria, like "fiscal stability." The orchestra briefly lost its financing in 1997, and the ballet was turned down in 1998.
"Over time, they cannot be running a significant deficit," said Rebecca W. Rimel, the president of the Pew trust. "There is no ambiguity about the rules, and while a lot of people might not agree with them, I don't think anyone would say we are exercising our stewardship in an arbitrary or capricious way."
The center, Ms. Rimel added, has yet to make it over Pew's bar. "We are supportive of having a new facility in Philadelphia. And we think it's a beautiful building. Our concerns boil down to, after it's built, what will it cost to run it? And what is going to be the impact on these already fragile arts organizations when their rents go up? If those two questions can be answered, our board would be very willing to consider the grant."
The Pew trust's questions about finances seem not altogether unreasonable. The center's administration has so far been long on rhetoric and short on concrete figures. It is still not clear, for example, how much companies will have to pay to use the spaces.
"I'm waiting for answers," said Robert B. Driver, the director of the opera company, which would like to increase its presence in the Academy to 50 evenings a year. "They say I'll be paying approximately what I'm paying now. That's not enough. I'm paying too much as it is."
But most people believe that prices not only for the Academy but also for the two new halls will have to be considerably higher than the current norm to keep the center running.
"We didn't know the specifics of scheduling policies and booking policies, and how we were going to run the box office, and things like that," Ms. Naidoff said. "We had to get everyone to recognize that the definite agreements will come somewhere down the line. I learned early on, don't promise things you're not sure you can deliver."
Although it no longer officially controls the center, the orchestra is still intimately involved with the project. A players' committee meets regularly with the center's design team -- Mr. Vinoly, the acoustician Russell Johnson and the theater consultant Richard Pillbrow -- to outline the orchestra's needs in its new hall, from rehearsal rooms to door sizes. And the chairman of the orchestra's board, Peter A. Benoliel, sits on the center's board, as does the donor Mr. Kimmel.
One thing still to be negotiated, evidently, is where the center's responsibility begins and the orchestra's ends. It is not even clear when and how the center will take over the Academy from the orchestra, though it is to happen by next year.
The public's identification of the center with the orchestra can only be strengthened by moments like the intermission of a concert conducted by Sir Simon Rattle last month. Sir Simon has been cited as a desirable replacement for the departing music director, Mr. Sawallisch, but was reported in January to have given a clear no to the possibility. Mr. Rouse, the center's chairman, offered a toast to the "best conductor in the world," informing Sir Simon that "Philadelphia is not a town that takes no for an answer."
Technically speaking, any offer to Sir Simon should be the responsibility of the orchestra rather than the center, though like any ardent suitor, Mr. Kluger, the orchestra's president, is happy for all the help he can get.
THE center needs the orchestra as much as the orchestra needs it. For the orchestra remains the principal guarantor that once the new center is built, there will be something to put in it. Resident chamber and dance companies may occupy the recital theater, but they will hardly fill the larger auditorium. And while the center's administration dreams of presenting a range of touring ensembles, it lacks the experience necessary to pull it off.
"Quite frankly," Ms. Naidoff said, "if this thing is going to work up to the world-class standards that we want for it, we're going to have to bring in professionals who have worked in these areas before."
With right of first refusal for dates in the new center, the orchestra is effectively getting its long-desired new hall without taking a significant financial risk. "There is a difference between renting as tenants and having your own space, after 40 years of autonomy, even if it makes sense intellectually," Mr. Kluger said. "On the other hand, if there's a deficit, it's their problem, not our problem."
For the orchestra musicians, construction of the center, now that it has started, is not a topic of burning relevance. "This orchestra has been hearing for 10 years that it's going to get a new hall," said David Cramer. a flutist. "O.K., so now they've dug a hole, but it's down the street. People don't see it every day."
Of more immediate concern are the search for a new music director and the renegotiation of the players' contract, which comes up for renewal this year. Management would presumably like to follow the New York Philharmonic and other orchestras in extending the traditional three-year contract to five years or more. The Philadelphia Orchestra could then negotiate the transition to the new hall and a new music director without the threat of labor disputes.
Philadelphia's Regional Performing Arts Center highlights America's increasing recognition of the arts as an essential part of a city's makeup. From Los Angeles to Newark to Miami, the arts are touted for their potential economic benefit, so that community leaders without a specific interest in the arts, like Mr. Rouse and Mr. Rendell, are stepping forward like Renaissance dukes to support them.
But in order for a center to live up to this economic potential, there has to be creative excitement as well. And while Philadelphia administrators focus on fund-raising in their efforts to complete the new center, it will take quality performances as well as attractive architecture to insure that Mr. Vinoly's cello-shaped hall and airy atrium join the Academy on the list of Philadelphia's most-beloved buildings.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ground has been broken for the Regional Performing Arts Center in Philadelphia; digitized renderings show the symphony hall, above, and exterior. (Rafael Vinoly Architects)(pg. 37); The performing arts center, with it's symphony hall and smaller theater, is part of a tourism driven building boom in downtown Philadelphia. (Rafael Vinoly Architects)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA; ACADEMY OF MUSIC (PHILADELPHIA); REGIONAL PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (PHILADELPHIA) PHILADELPHIA BOURSE INC (90%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (93%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA; ACADEMY OF MUSIC (PHILADELPHIA); REGIONAL PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (PHILADELPHIA) PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (93%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC MUSIC (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (73%); THEATER (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); 

PERSON: MIDGETTE, ANNE ANTON STANISLAW BOLESLAWAWICZ 'LEOPOLD' STOKOWSKI (55%); EUGENE ORMANDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



564 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey;
Attracting Industries From Manhattan to Jersey City

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
THE PATH trains run literally in the back yard of the old industrial building at 190 Baldwin Street, and the owners of the now-empty structure hope to use that proximity to transportation to attract printers and other graphic arts companies that are being squeezed out of lower Manhattan.
This is not the Jersey City of the Hudson River waterfront, where developers like Hartz Mountain and the Lefrak Organization are putting up new Class A buildings to attract financial companies with the lure of large floorplates, up-to-the-minute telecommunications and fantastic views of New York. 
 This building is near the top of the hill that most of the city is perched on, with no view except the aging apartment buildings and two-family houses that make up the neighborhood. The attractions of 190 Baldwin are strictly utilitarian: sturdy, reinforced concrete floors that can support 250 to 300 pounds per square foot, and four freight elevators that can lift 5,000 pounds apiece. The building has 70,000 square feet of space.
The comfort of being only a few PATH stops from their old locations in Manhattan may be more psychological than anything else, said executives of Crown Properties, the owner of the building. "Most of those printers don't know about the industrial space that's available in Jersey City," said Douglas Kanter, one of the principals in the firm. "It's almost like they need a passport to come out here."
But economic pressures, and especially the annual cost per square foot of renting space, have a way of severing old emotional ties, Crown executives say. "In New York they are paying on the order of $10 a foot, but in Jersey City its more like $5 a foot," said Warren Waters, another principal.
Although no leases have been signed at the Baldwin Street building or another the company is marketing at 1561 Kennedy Boulevard, the Crown executives said they have been actively showing the buildings to prospective tenants that have included printers and engravers. Speaking of the Baldwin Street structure, Mr. Waters said: "We may call it the Graphic Arts building if things work out."
Printers and allied trades are good, stable tenants because relocation is difficult. Moving means transporting and reassembling machines that are as large and heavy as they are expensive and delicate. "These people definitely have a long-term attitude," Mr. Waters said. "They want 10- and 15-year leases."
A broker who recently arranged to move a printer from Manhattan to Jersey City is Benjamin H. Katz, who is with Insignia/ESG, the real estate services company. His client, Cunningham Graphic, is relocating from the old Port Authority building at 111 Eighth Avenue, at 16th Street, to 150,000 square feet at 5 Burma Road near the Liberty Science Center.
"Cunningham did not want to go far, so now they will be two miles from their existing location," Mr. Katz said.
This desire to be as close to the old location as possible is typical of companies leaving Manhattan the first time, said Frank Caccavo, a director in the northern New Jersey office of Cushman & Wakefield, the big real estate services company.
"As a general statement, Manhattan companies want to stay as close a possible -- they want to be near the tunnels," he said. "After the second or third iteration, then they will consider moving south or west."
Mr. Caccavo said more industrial companies are likely to head to New Jersey as owners of buildings like 111 Eighth Avenue replace them with computer-based operations capable of paying higher rent. "There is going to be a significant wave of transactions over the next two years as leases roll over," he said. "The owners have already given them notice, and they are out here looking."
The increasing interest in industrial properties in New Jersey comes at a time when the geographical and transportation advantages of the state's older cities are being rediscovered. In one of the biggest industrial leases of last year, Marcal Paper company took 260,000 square feet on Getty Avenue in Paterson, a city once almost left for dead.
"ALL the industrial markets in New Jersey are enjoying a tightening of vacancy," Mr. Caccavo said. According to a year-end report by Cushman & Wakefield, the vacancy rate for industrial property declined to 7 percent in the northern part of the state, while annual rents increased by 6.8 percent to an average of $5.20 a square foot.
Although their center city locations will probably make the Crown properties more attractive to manufacturers than distributors, they are nonetheless part of a market that is heavily oriented toward warehousing.
"New Jersey, due to its central location within the northeast corridor of Boston to Washington, its vast interstate highway infrastructure and its access to the deep water port of the Port of Newark and Elizabeth remains an ideal location for warehouse distribution," according to the Cushman & Wakefield report.
A similar report by another real estate services company, Grubb & Ellis, notes that over 60 million consumers in 12 states are an overnight's drive from New Jersey.
Although industrial properties in Jersey City are less glamorous than the waterfront, the two are connected in reality, Mr. Katz said. Printers, companies that service business machines and provide telecommunications services need to be close to their more glamorous customers, but cannot afford the mid-$20's annual rents per square foot that prevail along the Hudson River.
"The waterfront is off limits to anything that is not expensive," said Mr. Waters. "Users who cannot afford $25 a square foot have to come to places like Journal Square and JFK Boulevard." Journal Square is the symbolic heart of Jersey City and is not far from the Baldwin Street property.
Mr. Katz said the growing number of immigrants in New York from Asian and Caribbean countries is increasing demand for industrial space to warehouse food imported from those regions. And importers of perishable foods need to cluster near the port and the airport to quickly retrieve their cargoes and get them to their ultimate destinations.
"There are a lot of food companies that want to be close to the Holland Tunnel for the access to lower Manhattan," Mr. Katz said. "It's too bad there are not more buildings available." He said activity in Jersey City may push redevelopment south, to Bayonne.
Indeed, the shortage of available space in more established areas is prompting some businesses to look in areas previously shunned, including the once-industrial south side of Newark.
"Newark has the best logistical services of any place in the state," said Joseph R. Romano, executive vice president of the New Jersey offices of Grubb & Ellis. "It's got the port, the airport, train lines, highways and the access to New York. That's giving people incentives to overcome the negatives, which are mostly imaginary anyway." Nevertheless, fear of crime is an issue for some companies.
Mr. Caccavo said that "Newark has a phenomenal geographic location, and the growth of business at the airport is causing people to look at neighborhoods they did not want to look at before."
Real estate executives said the success of the Newark arts center, which draws in people who live in suburbs, and efforts to establish minor league baseball and shift the Nets basketball team to the city have done much to improve its image.
In Jersey City, an earlier development by Crown's affiliate, Miller Construction Company, called the Montgomery Industrial Center, has been largely filled with food-related companies. They include Jetro Cash & Carry, a wholesaler for small grocery stores, Jamac Frozen Food and Wei-Chuan, U.S.A., a distributor of canned goods.
Mr. Waters said that as long as the economy remains strong, he expects a steady flow of tenants coming out of Manhattan, as well as companies from outside the region seeking locations close to the city. Because clearing land to build is difficult in a densely packed place like Jersey City, he said, Crown is likely to acquire older buildings.
"We're interested in buying, but we are selective," he said. "We want buildings that are in good shape that tenants can use almost immediately." For example, he said no structural work was needed on the Baldwin Street building.
"I see us as acquirers over the next 10 years," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren Waters, left, and Douglas Kanter, principals of Crown Properties, at 190 Baldwin Street in Jersey City. The firm hopes to attract printers and other graphic-arts companies to the building, using the lure of proximity to transportation. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LEFRAK ORGANIZATION INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: FRANK CACCAVO (62%); WARREN WATERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



565 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND JOURNAL;
Opening the World of Business to Children

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER 

 BODY:
IT started with a quarter. Karen Tenenbaum's daughter, Allison, put the coin in a vending machine. Out dropped a plastic egg with a fake quarter inside. Allison, then 6, was thrilled. But Mrs. Tenenbaum, 39, is a tax lawyer and an accountant. She was "horrified," she said.
"I couldn't believe she thought she had a good value," she said. "I had to do something to teach children about money." 
 A lemonade stand just wouldn't do.
Mrs. Tenenbaum approached the assistant superintendent for instruction at the Levittown School District, who hooked her up with the Southeast Nassau Partnership for Change, a consortium of nine public school districts and of business partners and community leaders. One meeting led to another.
The result was Commerce Plaza, the Children's Business Center, a school-to-career program. A step beyond the take your daughters to work day concept, it is a virtual village, a scaled-down, student version of the working world. After learning the principles of business in class, fifth graders fill out job applications, then take a field trip to a simulated mini-mall for a hands-on introduction to the free enterprise system.
Mrs. Tenenbaum's economic laboratory will be ready for Long Island schoolchildren this fall. She has a 14-member board of directors, architectural drawings, a planning board, an eight-week curriculum and help from local businesses. The European American Bank, which will be the host of a student-run branch, donated $25,000 to the project; Xerox gave $10,000. The model is based on Enterprise Village, a 20,000-square-foot educational facility in Largo, Fla.
Last week, the Plainedge school district came to terms with the consortium on a temporary space to accommodate 8 to 10 pint-sized businesses. Though the day trips are geared to fifth graders, the center will be open to students at any level in all of Long Island's 127 school districts.
And Nassau County has jumped on the bandwagon to have Navy Building 14, which is Federal property, converted for use by Commerce Plaza. "It would make a logical adjunct to museum row," said Dave Vieser, press secretary to the Nassau County Executive, Thomas Gulotta, who has written to Senator Charles E. Schumer and Representative Carolyn McCarthy about the project.
High school youngsters will serve as mentors, said Ellen Krammer, administrative director of the Farmingdale school district, who helped develop the curriculum. Middle school children will staff kiosks, selling beaded bracelets, potholders and other entrepreneurial products. Kindergarteners start learning the basics of profit and loss.
"If they could do it in Florida, why can't we do it on Long Island?" said Mrs. Tenenbaum. She runs her East Meadow practice and recently founded Money Masters Inc., a private company, to teach children about money through CD-Roms, toys and books. And Allison, now 10, has a sometimes-thriving neighborhood business selling rocks.
"What better way to teach somebody than to have them do it?" Mrs. Tenenbaum said of Commerce Plaza. "We want them to experience the world of work. Children see their parents leave in the morning and go to work, but do they really know what they are doing once they are there?"
So the students will learn how to budget, write checks and purchase inventory. To simulate reality, they'll stop at the bank to apply for a loan, then meet with an under-aged real-estate agent to sign a lease.
Crews from a power and light company will have meters to read. Telephone company employees will install lines and create a directory. There will be a mayor, a warehouse with stock clerks, managers and bookkeepers running retail shops, a fast-food restaurateur and, no doubt, a lawyer. Meanwhile, reporters will scramble for newspaper stories, disk jockeys will spin out tunes from a radio station and a roving television reporter will record the scene.
"They are making decisions," Mrs. Tenenbaum said. "They are using math skills, they are using reading skills. They are applying everything they learned in school in a way they never had to apply it before. By the end of the day, the children understand the ethics of working. They have realized either a profit or a loss."
The school-to-work initiative began in 1994 with the School-to-Work Opportunities Act, a federally financed program that funnels grant money over five years to states and local partnerships to help bridge the gap between education and employment. Developing workplace skills and learning about careers starts as young as kindergarten.
Long Island's three school-to-career partnerships have received more than $2.6 million of a $60.3 million five-year grant from New York State. Of the Southeast Nassau Partnership's $900,000 in planning and implementation grants, about $40,000 has gone into Commerce Plaza, which is only one of the consortiums six initiatives, said Mark Wenzel, project director of the Partnership for Change.
"Children are always asking, 'Why am I learning this?' The answer is very obvious when you get to Commerce Plaza," Mrs. Tenenbaum said. "They are all skills that you need every day of your life. It's helping Long Island business. We're training tomorrow's work force."
 
New Village Hall
No one doubted that Kings Point needed a new village hall. No one even quarreled over the extra $60 to $75 annually per house in property taxes the proposed $3.2 million new building would cost.
The only question was what the new village hall -- at 12,000 square feet not much larger than many homes in the surrounding residential neighborhood -- would look like.
"This place is literally rotting away," said Michael Kalnick, Mayor of this village of 4,900 at the tip of the Great Neck peninsula, standing in the shabby courtroom of his current headquarters during a break in a recent board of trustees meeting. "If we don't do something quickly, it's going to fall down around us. Something has to be done."
Not long ago, a police officer fell through a hole in the floor of the village hall, a 1920's Dutch colonial house built for Walter Chrysler's daughter next to his estate, now the United States Merchant Marine Academy. A stop sign now covers the hole.
The building houses the village's police department, courthouse and administrative offices. It was last renovated back in the 60's, when Mr. Kalnick's father, Benjamin Kalnick, was Mayor.
So Mr. Kalnick did what his father had once done. He called in an architect and fellow Kings Point resident named Spector.
"It's a giveaway project," said Michael Spector, president of the Spector Group, the North Hills architecture firm that has designed almost a third of a billion dollars' worth of Long Island buildings. "I live here. I said I would do it as long as it was fun."
His father, Charles Spector, reworked the old village hall.
That building, the younger Mr. Spector concluded, was functionally obsolete and couldn't possibly be saved. It would be easier to tear it down and start from scratch. So he designed a new village hall to be situated on an open tract of land across the street from the old one, closer to the main road. A parking lot would replace the razed facility.
And the new design? "It's a village hall, it's not a house," Mr. Spector said of his one-story contemporary design with a series of pyramid-like peaks and a 35-foot communications tower. "It will emit that feeling of security, not aloofness. Not commercial, not glitzy, not to infringe on the psychological or visual environment around it."
Not according to Don Dillon, an architect and jazz musician who lives across the street from the site, who liked the interiors but thought the building needed a more countrified appearance. Like a house. So he redrew Mr. Spector's elevation with a softer, lower-pitched Prairie-style roof line and showed it to the board.
"People who live right in the immediate area wanted something that reflected a little more of a residential feeling rather than a real cold-faced commercial feeling," said Louise Sloane, who lives nearby and compared the rendering to a "car dealership in Palm Beach."
The communications tower, she said later, reminded her of a "concentration camp or a military installation."
"The main criticism was trying to maintain a more rural flavor to this portion of Kings Point that so many people seem to cherish," she said.
Mr. Spector said: "Everybody has different opinions," as he viewed the alternative rendering. "That's what makes horse racing."
The latest rendering, with the same roof line but a new, meandering driveway, will be unveiled at Monday night's board meeting. Construction is scheduled to begin this summer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen Tenenbaum with plans for a center where children will learn and use the principles of sound business. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 103 P.L. 239 SCHOOL-TO-WORK OPPORTUNITIES ACT OF 1993 (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC1711 PLUMBING, HEATING, & AIR-CONDITIONING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASTERS INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KINGS POINT (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ARCHITECTURE SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COUNTIES (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (75%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); 

PERSON: FISCHLER, MARCELLE S; SPECTOR, MICHAEL CAROLYN MCCARTHY (54%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



566 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3104 words

HEADLINE: Places of the Heart;
Historic Houses of Worship, From Soaring Spires to Simple Quaker Meeting Houses

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
BERNARD A. FLANAGAN fell in love with the Cathedral Basilica of the Sacred Heart when he was a child.
It was in the mid-1940's, and the cathedral was still incomplete after decades of on-again, off-again construction. Playing in a schoolyard in the shadow of the cathedral's shell, Mr. Flanagan often wondered what beauty and mystery dwelled within. In 1954, when the great bronze doors finally opened to reveal the completed church, he was awe-struck. 
 "It had a beautiful interior harmony," he says, recalling his first impression. "There was a sanctity. It did what a cathedral was supposed to do: impress people with the great dignity of God."
Mr. Flanagan, a 63-year old offset operator in the print shop of the Newark Library and a devout Catholic, has never lost his special feeling for the cathedral, and for 20 years has been giving regular tours, even though he moved out of the parish 18 years ago. "It's like giving something I love away, and by teaching other people to love it, I'm helping to protect its heritage," he said.
Each year 11,000 people visit the cathedral, the spiritual center of the Archdiocese of Newark and one of the finest examples of French Gothic architecture in the Western Hemisphere. It was designated a minor basilica -- or church of special prominence -- by Pope John Paul II during a visit in 1995.
There are numerous other houses of worship in New Jersey, some 4,180 churches and synagogues alone, according to "Churches and Church Membership in the United States 1990," that are architecturally or historically significant or have a special place in the hearts of the people like Bernard Flanagan, who visit them to pray and seek solace.
From synagogues to mosques, from simple Quaker meetinghouses in the southwestern part of the state to the stalwart Dutch Reformed Churches of the northeast, from majestic cathedrals like Sacred Heart to the most humble storefront churches, these houses of worship reflect the state's racial, ethnic and religious diversity and a yearning to be one with a greater being.
Robert C. Broderick in "Historic Churches of the United States," (Wildred Funk, New York, 1958) wrote that houses of worship, more than any other buildings, express a society's most worthy aspirations. "They are not only an expression of the artistic conception of any point in our history," Mr. Broderick wrote. "Sociologically, some historians maintain, churches provide a key to the quality of life and thought in any community."
But in these rapidly changing times, the existence of many is threatened, especially older structures dating back hundreds of years, victims of the weight of time itself and the high cost of maintaining them. Fire, vandalism and changing demographics have caused many to be abandoned, demolished or put to secular use. And with them have gone valuable human and social services sheltered in them.
Each house of worship has its own story; and each sect has struggled -- some more than others -- to put down roots in an often hostile environment.
There is, for instance, James Caldwell, the minister at the First Presbyterian Church in Elizabeth and a fervent critic of British rule who carried loaded pistols to the pulpit with him.
Or the countless Irish laborers who gave their meager earnings from the silk mills and train works to build the Cathedral of St. John the Baptist in the old Dublin section of Paterson, a church whose parishioners now are predominantly Hispanic.
These stories are as much a part of the fabric of these places as the worn wood and the stone of which they are made.
 There are about 140 religious properties in New Jersey listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the Cathedral Basilica of the Sacred Heart being one of them. But there are only three New Jersey churches that have attained the status of National Historic Landmark.
One of them is the "new" St. Mary's Episcopal Church in Burlington, a one-story, brownstone building with spire and Gothic details, dating to between 1846 and 1854. It stands next to one of the oldest existing churches in the state, "old" St. Mary's Episcopal Church, a one-story brick structure that was built in 1703.
THE other landmarks include Grace Church in Newark (1847) and All Saints Church in Navesink (1864).
The three were designated national landmarks because of their "architectural design significance," and all were designed by Richard Upjohn, said William C. Bolger, national historic program manager of the northeast region of the National Parks Service in Philadelphia.
Upjohn was a devout Anglican who borrowed heavily from the style of the 13th and 14th centuries to design about 150 churches, including Trinity Church in Manhattan.
A church must be an act of devotion and that devotion "must be mixed in the very essence of the mortar between its stones," wrote the architect John Stewart Detlie in "Religious Buildings for Today," (An Architectural Record Book, F.W. Dodge Corporation, 1957).
The Dutch were the earliest settlers in New Jersey, getting a foothold in 1660 in Jersey City, where they established the Bergen Reformed Church of the Dutch Reformed denomination, "the oldest organized church congregation west of the Hudson River," according to Ellis L. Derry in his two-volume history, "Old and Historic Churches of New Jersey."
Better known as Old Bergen Church, the first structure was built in 1680. The current church, a brick and brown sandstone structure with Doric portico and Greek Revival details, was built in 1841.
In 1664 the English wrested control of New Amsterdam from the Dutch, and the first English settlement in New Jersey was established in 1675 at Salem by Quakers who in 1681 bought a log house as a permanent location for their meetings.
The existing Salem Friends Meeting House, a brick two-story rectangular structure, was built in 1772. Western New Jersey was predominantly Quaker for years, and many meeting houses were built in the southern and western sections of the state.
The oldest Episcopal parish in New Jersey where services have continually been held is St. Peter's in Perth Amboy, Mr. Derry wrote. It held its first service in 1685 and built its first church in 1721. William Franklin, Benjamin Franklin's son who was the governor of the Province of New Jersey, was a vestryman. The current St. Peter's was built in 1852.
By the mid-1700's half of the residents of New Jersey were English, with roots in Scotland, Ireland or Wales and with sizable numbers of Dutch and German descendants and smaller numbers of Swedish and French people, according to Richard P. McCormick, in the pamphlet, "New Jersey: A Student's Guide to Localized History," Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, 1965).
The major religious denominations, Mr. McCormick wrote, were Presbyterian, Quaker, Baptist, Dutch Reformed and Anglican with some German Lutheran, Swedish Luther and Methodist congregations.
Ellis Derry wrote in the second volume of his "Old and Historic Churches of New Jersey," (Plexus Publishing Inc., Medford, 1994) that religious liberty in the Colonies meant freedom from a state-controlled church. In Europe, he wrote, people were required to follow the teachings of the church of their country, but, even after fleeing this restriction, many continued the practice in the new world. Newark, for example, was founded as a theocracy by Connecticut Congregationalists in 1666.
But New Jersey, along with Rhode Island, Pennsylvania and Delaware resisted establishing a state church. Mr. Derry explained. "Despite these high principles, religious toleration did not always exist in New Jersey."
Indeed, it wasn't until a new State constitution was drafted in 1844 that Catholics were allowed to run for public office, according to "New Jersey: A Guide to Its Present and Past," compiled by the Federal Writers Project of the Works Progress Administration, 1936.
The first Catholic church in the state, was not built in Trenton until 1814. The oldest Catholic church still in use is St. John's Church in Newark, built in 1828 and enlarged over the years after Irish immigrants began pouring into the city.
In 1858, after towers were erected, the brown stone church in the English Norman style was dedicated, the first consecrated Catholic church in New Jersey, according to Mr. Derry.
A year later, Bishop James Roosevelt Bayley, the first bishop of the Newark diocese, commissioned the construction of Sacred Heart Cathedral, which would not be finished for nearly 100 years.
The congregation of St. John's has dwindled to a handful, but since 1974 its mission of feeding the hungry has increased the number of people it touches. And for several years, its pastor has been holding a noon mass for business people in a room in the Gateway Center office complex.
Jewish people did not begin arriving in any number until the 1800's. The first congregation in the State dates to 1847 when a group of German Jewish businessmen established B'nai Jeshurun in Paterson. A year later, another B'nai Jeshurun was established in Newark.
Both congregations conducted services in a series of rented spaces before they could build their own synagogues. In 1878, the Paterson congregation, which was incorporated as an Orthodox Jewish synagogue but later became part of the reform movement, acquired its first permanent building on Van Houten Street.
But businessman, philanthropist and mayor, Nathan Barnert, after whom the synagogue came to be named, contributed land for a newer grander synagogue, one in the Moorish style, which was built in 1892 on Broadway and Straight Street.
PRESIDENT WILLIAM McKINLEY, whose vice president, Garrett A. Hobart, came from Paterson, visited Mayor Barnert in April 1900. He attended the Passover service at the temple, passing through a crowd of a thousand people who had gathered to see him, said Dorothy Starr, who is writing a history of Barnert Temple.
In 1965 the congregation opened a contemporary modern brick building on Derrom Avenue near Broadway that was designed by the architect Percival Goodman, dean of the graduate school of architecture at Columbia University. The old synagogue on Broadway was demolished in 1971.
Among other things, Mr. Goodman was renowned for designing the first truly modern synagogue in the country, Congregation B'nai Israel in Millburn in the early 1950's.
Avram Kampf in "Contemporary Synagogue Art," (Union of American Hebrew Congregations) called the Millburn synagogue "a significant milestone in synagogue art and architecture in the United States," because it was the first time an architect called on modern artists in the design of a house of worship in which esthetics was paramount.
The B'nai Jeshurun congregation in Newark built three synagogues in the city to keep up with growth, one at Washington Street and Maiden Lane in 1858, a second on Washington Street near William Street in 1868, and the third on High Street and Waverly Avenue in 1915.
In 1888, it became the first congregation in New Jersey to be admitted to the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the umbrella organization for reform congregations. In the 1960's, the congregation began looking for a site outside Newark and in 1968 built its current synagogue on South Orange Avenue in Short Hills.
The synagogue, one of the more spectacular modern synagogues in New Jersey -- a brown brick building with a stained glass window that rises its full height of 80 feet -- was designed by Pietro Belluschi, the dean of the School of Architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
"It's monumental; it's enormous in scale and size," said James Goldstein, a member of the congregation who is a partner in Goldstein Partnership Architects of West Orange. "Yet it has a transcendent quality about it: the use of the materials and spectacular stained glass, the sense of daylight permeating the sanctuary."
The Paterson congregation moved in 1987 into a new building on Route 208 in Franklin Lakes in neighboring Bergen County. This synagogue too, like the one it left in Paterson, was designed by Mr. Goodman.
The synagogue on Derrom Avenue that had opened in 1965 was sold. In 1990 it became the Islamic Center of Passaic County, one of nine mosques in Paterson alone, according to its president, Riad Mustafa.
Exterior modifications were minimal: a metal dome and a crescent on the side, Mr. Mustafa said.
Interior changes were more extensive: carpeting was laid, separate sections were built for men and women and adjustments were made so worshipers faced Mecca. A bookstore was added, dedicated to Islamic teaching in Arabic, Spanish and English.
The Islamic Center can hold 2,000 people, most of whom come from Passaic County.
"It's an excellent building," Mr. Moustafa said. "It's very sound and very beautiful."
Robert W. Craig, principal historic preservation specialist for the New Jersey Historic Preservation Office of the state' Department of Environmental Protection, says there is a challenge to congregations to maintain their buildings, which can be costly. "I sense that's a widespread situation," Mr. Craig said.
It is especially true as poorer congregations take over houses of worship from more prosperous ones, said Bob Jaeger, co-director of Partners for Sacred Places, a national nonprofit organization based in Philadelphia that helps congregations and communities maintain and use their houses of worship.
"The new congregation does not have the economic resources that their predecessors did and so repairs are put off in favor of day to day needs," Mr. Jaeger said. "This can accumulate from decade to decade."
Eventually, by removing a tower here, a window there, and closing off a section of a church, the whole building ends up being lost, he said.
"It is only after the building is gone that people recognize what has been lost -- something far more valuable than a place of worship," wrote Marilyn J. Chiat in "America's Religious Architecture: Sacred Places for Every Community," (Preservation Press; John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1996.) "Often it was the cornerstone of a neighborhood."
New Jersey is blessed with fine houses of worship. Amid the hustle and bustle of lawyers and prosecutors and defendants moving in and out of the Bergen County Court House in Hackensack, there is the quiet presence of the First Reformed Church, or Church on the Green as it is called.
It is the oldest congregation in Bergen County dating from 1686. The first church was built in 1696. The current building, in the Dutch Colonial style with a steeple of octagonal design, was built in 1791 with many of the original stones of the old church placed in the east outer wall. In 1848 and 1869 the building was lengthened. Many pioneers are buried in the church yard, including Enoch Poor, one of Washington's generals, and a statue of him stands near the green.
Then there is the Quaker meeting house in Crosswicks where Hessians took quarters; there is still a canon ball in its north wall.
There is Old Tennent Church on the Monmouth Battle Field in Freehold, where legend has it that Molly Pitcher took her fallen husband's place behind a cannon.
There is St. James Chapel in Long Branch known as "the Church of the Presidents" because seven of them -- Grant, Hayes, Garfield, Arthur, Harrison, McKinley and Wilson -- worshiped there while taking a day at the shore. Garfield died across the street.
And for Bernard Flanagan, there is the Cathedral Basilica of the Sacred Heart which has so filled his life. On a recent Sunday he spoke its facts and praises to a small group of tourists.
He told them it is 365 feet long and 165 feet wide, the fifth largest cathedral in the country. The foundations were begun in 1898, the cornerstone laid in 1899, and work ended in 1927. It did not resume until 1950. The nave and ambulatory columns are of granite with granite capitals. Indiana limestone is used throughout, creating a brilliant lightness in the church. He told them each of three rose windows had approximately 50,000 pieces of glass.
And afterward, one of those who took the tour, Ralph Allora, a lawyer from Little Falls who thought to take his mother-in-law to visit the Cathedral for the first time, said: "It's inspiring because it shows what can be done through faith. The people who worked on the cathedral, it wasn't just a job for them. It was devotion to make it the structure it is."
 
Saving Churches, and Souls, Along the Way
It once was called the High Street Presbyterian Church, built in 1850 in Newark, but since the mid-1940's it has been called St. James A.M.E. Church.
And like many old churches, it needed help if it was to continue to be a healthy building.
To the rescue came Annabelle Radcliffe-Trenner, an architect who works on restoring old buildings. Among her projects, besides other churches, is Morven, the former official residence of New Jersey's governors.
"I think the problem is there aren't many people helping these churches plan," said Ms. Radcliffe-Trenner of Princeton. "Churches like St. James get so wrapped up with outreach and providing community services they don't have time to look up and see water pouring through the ceiling."
Bob Jaeger, co-director of Partners for Sacred Places, a national, non-profit group in Philadelphia devoted to helping congregations and communities save and actively use older religious properties, said this is a common problem.
"These buildings are in trouble, which means not only is the architecture at risk -- and this is what hits people in a neighborhood hard -- all the social programs that these buildings house are also at risk."
A survey by Partners, which it published last year as a pamphlet, "Sacred Places At Risk," found that the value of such services as day care, food and shelter for the poor and after school programs to a community averages $140,000 a year per congregation. Mr. Jaeger said that this is triple the annual budget of many congregations.
The survey also found that the average congregation faces from $200,000 to $300,000 in repairs.
Several weeks ago, Ms. Radcliffe-Trenner, an Englishwoman who studied architecture with a specialty in preservation at Edinburgh University in Scotland, finished $1.25 million worth of restoration work at St. James, paid for in part by the New Jersey Historic Trust and through funds raised by the congregation.
A new slate roof was put on, the stonework was stabilized and the sanctuary was re-opened. A Tiffany rose window is still under repair. GEORGE JAMES
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Cathedral Basilica of the Sacred Heart in Newark, above, was designated a minor basilica -- or church of special prominence -- by Pope John Paul II in 1995. B'nai Jeshurun in Short Hills, left, is the nation's oldest reformed Jewish congregation. The Islamic Center of Passaic County is housed in a former synagogue. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The state's historic religious properties include B'nai Jeshurun in Short Hills, above; the Cathedral Basilica in Newark, right; the First Reformed Church in Hackensack, below right, and the Islamic Center of Passaic County, below. Annabelle Radcliffe-Trenner looks over plans for renovating St. James Church in Newark. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times and Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times, below right)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CATHEDRAL BASILICA OF SACRED HEART (NEWARK, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: CATHEDRAL BASILICA OF SACRED HEART (NEWARK, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES RELIGION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); RETAILERS (68%); HISTORY (67%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); VANDALISM (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE POPE JOHN PAUL II (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



567 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: Returning Life to an Urban Neighborhood

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON PARK, nestled in a low-income neighborhood on Bridgeport's East Side, embodies much of what the city's cognoscenti say is its metropolitan character. Once the crown jewel of neighborhood parks in the Park City, its faded glory speaks of lost wealth, sophistication, industrial might and fashionable style, and the inimitable P. T. Barnum, perhaps the city's most famous personage.
In the latter half of the 1800's and the first decade of the 1900's, Washington Park was one of the most desirable places to live between Boston and New York. Circling the seven-acre park is as fine a collection of grand Victorian houses as can be found in Connecticut, a result of a successful, early example of visionary urban planning. 
 Time has not been kind to the park and its environs. Most of the 20th century has seen it slipping into decay, a process greatly accelerated in the last dozen years by the forces of drugs and poverty. But a new project has recently begun to restore some of the historical glamour of the park as well as its economic health.
The Washington Park Association, a neighborhood residents' organization, plans to renovate 10 of the structures with painstaking historical accuracy, supported by Federal tax credits, government and foundation grants, and a bank loan. When completed, the 10 buildings will offer 35 apartments for rent, and their residents will be able to get a sense of the high style of the Victorian Age of a century ago.
"The buildings will look pretty much the way they were the day they were built," said Charles Brilvitch, the city's historian who helped prepared the project's application to the Department of the Interior for tax credits.
Restoration of the buildings will take a great deal of work; some, for example, have been severely damaged by fires. The total project is estimated at $4.8 million, about $137,000 per apartment.
"All of the buildings have unusual hardwood detail woodwork that's very difficult to replicate these days," said David Barbour, the project's architect. Thick layers of lead-based paint must be stripped off chestnut moldings, entryway grand staircases must be both restored, asbestos siding must be torn off one house and replaced with pastel stucco, and clay tiles must be found to replace missing and broken tiles on the roof of another building.
The original color schemes -- vivid golds, greens, reds, browns and burgundy -- will be restored. "It will visually be quite stimulating, and historically accurate," Mr. Barbour said.
Robert Halstead, president of the association, said that the park and its neighborhood "are so historically significant, so special, that we just can't let it go." The first of the properties, the Fitzgerald House at 480 East Washington Avenue, is already under renovation.
The Washington Park neighborhood was originally conceived of by Barnum, who had a vision of constructing a "New City on the Pequonnock." In 1851 the showman bought 225 acres of undeveloped land across the Pequonnock River from the city with money he had made from his traveling shows and exhibitions, laid out the community's streets and subdivided the land, reserving a square in the center for the park.
To induce its rapid development, Barnum sold every other building lot at the price the land cost him, requiring that houses, stores or other buildings constructed on them meet high standards for design and construction quality. He also built a covered bridge over the river to allow traffic to the city's business district.
Barnum hired a young Bridgeport engineer named James C. Lane to design the park as a formal English country square, with a focal point in the center and trees planted in matched pairs. (Lane later served as a general in the Civil War.)
After a few years, many large stylish houses had been built, greatly increasing the value of the lots that Barnum still owned, and he wound up richer than ever. He later said he made more than $1 million on the development.
"It was the high-class neighborhood of Bridgeport," Mr. Brilvitch said. Many residents were prominent business executives, manufacturers and professionals. Among them were George and Joseph Irving, brothers who emigrated from Ireland during the potato famine and made a fortune as carriage makers.
The architecture reflected every high style of the times, including Victorian gothic, Italianate, French Second Empire, Georgian and New York-style brownstone rowhouses. "There are 10 different kinds of Victorian architecture there, all facing out on the park," noted Mr. Halstead.
A bandstand was built in the center of the park where the Wheeler and Wilson sewing machine company's band would play popular music every Saturday evening during the warm months. Local residents would dress up in their finest clothes and stroll on the walks amidst the elms. "It was the picture of refinement," Mr. Brilvitch observed.
The neighborhood began to slip out of fashion around World War I. Victorian architecture went out of style and the invention of the automobile allowed factory owners and other wealthy people to live out of town and commute to their offices. In the 1920's and 30's, new owners carved the grand, old houses into apartments and rooming houses to capitalize on the fast-growing city's housing shortage.
After World War II, the middle class began moving to the suburbs. They were replaced by lower-income families, particularly Puerto Ricans and Southeast Asians, who arrived just as most of the factories that had sustained the economy of Bridgeport's East Side closed or moved elsewhere.
The recent history of Washington Park is told in microcosm by the fate of the Fitzgerald House. Built in 1901 by Dr. Edward Fitzgerald, it was bequeathed to the United Way of Eastern Fairfield County by his widow in the 1970's. In 1977 the house was sold for $18,300 to an immigrant resettlement agency.
In the real estate boom of the mid-1980's, the East Side attracted owners who bought properties there as investments. Robert Ryffel and Richard Hoefle bought the Fitzgerald House in 1985 for $65,000. Mr. Ryffel bought out his partner in 1989, taking a $110,000 mortgage from Goldome Realty Credit Corporation, an out-of-state lender.
But the crack epidemic of the 1980's attracted street gangs to the neighborhood. Washington Park became a market for drugs and prostitution. The Cat Posse, a Jamaican gang, set up headquarters in an apartment fronting on the park. At the same time, the air went out of the real estate bubble, and East Side property values crashed. Absentee owners, whose mortgages now exceeded the value of their properties, abandoned them to squatters and criminals, who tore out the plumbing to sell as scrap, further reducing their value.
Mr. Ryffel finally joined them after confronting a trespasser in the Fitzgerald House. Both drew weapons and Mr. Ryffel shot the other man dead. His creditor foreclosed on the property in 1995 and resold it to East Side Properties, an investment group of Lebanese immigrants, for $19,000, about 17 percent of what Goldome had loaned Mr. Ryffel.
"That was definitely casino speculation," said Ray Hutchinson, vice president of the Washington Park Association. East Side Properties, in fact, bought up several buildings around the park, gambling on the prospects that a casino would be built at the site of the Bridgeport dog track, a few blocks away. But the casino was not approved, giving the association the opportunity to buy them from the investment group.
"It was better that somebody owned them," observed Mr. Halstead. He said several other properties in the association's project had been abandoned by their owners, whose creditors refused to foreclose, making it difficult to establish clear titles for the properties. New state laws had to be passed to allow the city to acquire them through condemnation so they could be transferred to the association for $1.
Acquisition and bureaucratic costs were underwritten by government and foundation grants and gifts from philanthropists, but the main portion of the construction costs were met using a $3.5 million loan from a Chase Manhattan Bank subsidiary, the Chase Community Development Corporation. Once the project is completed, it will receive Federal tax credits from the National Equity Fund that will leave $790,000 to be paid back to Chase over 18 years.
David Watson, vice president of Chase Community Development, said the bank has financed other projects of the kind in New Haven, Hartford and Stamford. Although the Washington Park project has the smallest number of apartments of the four, it has the greatest historical significance.
At the Fitzgerald House, Washington Park Association officials laughed as they recalled their struggles to keep the project going. Often, people working on it proceeded simply with promises that they would be paid someday, said Frank Callahan, the project manager. They keep hitting financial and bureaucratic hurdles, and somehow managed to clear them all, he said.
"We were like Mr. Magoo," said Mr. Halstead, "walking on beams, and when he gets to the end of one beam another would come along."
The city's planning and economic development director, Michael Freimuth, said he thought that for two reasons the Washington Park Association's project would succeed where other efforts at renewal of the park area had failed. One is that the renovated buildings will be owned by the association, people who live there instead of absentee developers "who found it much easier to walk away when the going got rough."
The other reason is that the effort is comprehensive and concentrated, unlike the piecemeal, scattered-site projects of the past. "This eliminates the problem where recently renovated buildings are worn down by distressed properties next door," Mr. Freimuth said.
Mr. Halstead said the association also intends to use one of the apartments in the renovated buildings to house a neighbor-to-neighbor helping hand office. Our aspiration is to see an office there that will serve the people's needs, so that people will be glad to live there, not feel like they're stuck there," he said.
The association wants Washington Park to be "all the things a city can be," he said. "This is a miracle project."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker redoing a circular porch at 480 East Washington Avenue in Bridgeport. Victorian houses in the century-old neighborhood founded by P. T. Barnum are being restored. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)(pg. 1); In Bridgeport, basketball has returned to Washington Park, once the city's most elegant section. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)(pg. 8); A once-stately house, above, on East Washington Avenue in Bridgeport awaits carpenters, below, who are restoring houses around a park. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON PARK ASSOCIATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); HISTORY (68%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); ROOFING MATERIALS (64%); LEAD (50%); LEAD PAINT (50%); 

PERSON: BARNUM, PHINEAS TAYLOR (1810-91); MUSANTE, FRED JAMES C LANE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



568 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 3433 words

HEADLINE: In All 5 Boroughs, A Robust Market

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
FROM the heights of Manhattan's luxury towers to the wood-framed and aluminum-sided homes of its more proletarian neighborhoods, New York City's residential real estate market saw prices continue to rise last year -- riding the crest of the nation's record-breaking housing expansion and the region's ongoing rebound from the moribund days of the early 1990's.
The residential market throughout the five boroughs last year was one in which the old real estate adage about location being of prime concern could well have been recoined: "Inventory! Inventory! Inventory!" 
 There just wasn't enough to go around. So prices climbed.
It is not as though sales volume was down. Sales in nearly every neighborhood were certainly good, and in many excellent, but they could have been better had there been more listings. Many buyers -- from those with considerable assets to those less affluent, yet confident of a vibrant economy and hoping to avail themselves of some of the lowest mortgage rates in decades -- were frustrated by the lack of homes to see.
Brokers -- who, of course, would savor a universal game of musical chairs in which everybody got up and moved -- were both stirred and stymied by the possibilities of a hot market in which, at the same time, it was so difficult to nail down more deals because sellers could be so choosey.
The sellers counted their blessings -- until confronted by the cost of their next purchase.
Average prices in every apartment category in Manhattan except studios were up in 1998, according to one of the most comprehensive surveys of the market, the Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Report, which looked at co-op, condominium and town house transactions. Costs for the most expansive residences -- those with three bedrooms or four or more bedrooms -- bounded up by 18.2 percent and 15.7 percent, respectively.
The average price for a three-bedroom below 96th Street on the East Side and 116th Street on the West Side, the report showed, rose from $1,296,964 in 1997 to $1,532,981 in '98. For the 156 deals in the four-plus bedroom category, the average price rose from $2,966,068 to $3,431,469.
And, according to data compiled by Case Shiller Weiss, which conducts an annual repeat-sales survey, prices appreciated last year in every one of the 130 ZIP-code areas in Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Staten Island (the survey does not include Manhattan). In 1997, by comparison, 14 areas saw prices drop, and in 1996 the number was 30.
Leading the city's upsurge outside of Manhattan last year, the Case Shiller survey showed, was the Bronx, where 14 of the borough's 25 ZIP-code areas saw prices rise by 10 to 12 percent and another five jumped at least 12 percent. In Brooklyn, 18 of the 36 ZIP-code areas experienced price increases of at least 8 percent.
So while, by just about any measure, 1998 was a robust year for New York City's residential market, the lack of inventory -- a condition bemoaned by broker after broker -- and the upward squeeze on prices kept a lid on many people's hopes.
In what one real estate executive labeled "bracket creep," prices once commonplace in the city's more expensive enclaves radiated through neighboring communities with a far-reaching ripple effect.
"What is driving the neighborhoods adjacent to prime brownstone Brooklyn is bracket creep," said Christopher Thomas, the William B. May Company's senior vice president for Brooklyn. "Since demand has so exceeded supply, and since so many people have unsuccessfully bid on property in neighborhoods of their first choice, they have seen prices rise beyond their threshold."
"So there are many, many buyers in the $600,000 to $800,000 range," Mr. Thomas said, "and that no longer buys a good house in Brooklyn Heights." The result, he said -- citing such areas as Boerum Hill and Prospect Heights -- "has been the gentrification of neighborhoods that people had not heretofore flocked to."
Even in poorer communities like Bedford-Stuyvesant and East New York, the effect has been felt. "Houses in certain areas of Bed-Stuy are going for between $250,000 and and $300,000," said Jacob Shayovitz, president of the Brooklyn Board of Realtors. And in the once embattled South Bronx, where bricked-up tenements have been bulldozed to make way for an increasing number of suburbanesque tracts, the price of a single-family home reached about $180,000 last year, according to one broker who conducts a detailed survey of the borough.
For many people, the consequences were considerable.
"Traditionally, home ownership has been the route by which people first amass assets," said Michael Schill, director of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law. "These very high housing prices make it difficult for low- and middle-income households to begin their journey up that ladder."
To reach the first rung, said Mr. Shayovitz, "people have to stretch themselves."
Still, a lot of people -- whether on a national, regional or local level -- stretched in 1998, and records were set.
There were 4.78 million sales of existing homes in the nation last year, breaking the record of 4.21 million set in 1997, according to the National Association of Realtors. There were 888,000 sales of new homes last year, according to the Census Bureau, breaking the national record of 819,000 set in 1977. Consequently, the nation's home-ownership rate set a record, the Census Bureau reported, with 66.3 percent of all households owning their own homes.
E SSENTIALLY, for the housing industry, the economic and demographic stars were in full alignment," said James Hughes, dean of the Rutgers University School of Planning and Public Policy. New York City, Dr. Hughes said, "experienced strong income gains, reinforcing the basic trajectory of the economy."
Home-buying, obviously, is correlated to employment. In New York City, said John Weiting, regional commissioner of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, 77,000 jobs were created last year, raising employment to 3,061,000. "That matched the job growth in 1997," Mr. Weiting said, "with the past two years marking the city's strongest job performance since 1951."
Equally obviously, home-buying is correlated to a propitious mortgage market. "Mortgage rates touched 31-year lows and climbed back only to 20-odd-year lows in the last 12 months," said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage statistics company in Butler, N.J. The rate dropped to 6.68 percent in October -- a low last hit in 1967. Last Wednesday, the rate stood at 7 percent.
And so, in virtually every neighborhood of the city, lots of people took the house-buying leap -- if they could see somewhere to land.
In those Manhattan locales where real estate prospects are tightly tethered to the quarterly report and the year-end bonus, the residential market weathered a chill last fall after the bottom dropped out the Russian economy, the so-called Asian contagion sent shudders through South America and, on Aug. 31, the Dow plunged 513 points, to 7,379. Virtually overnight, Manhattan's high-end buyers hit their pause buttons.
Savvy New Yorkers, however, seem to have soon seen the 513-point drop in perspective. For in fact, at the time, that 500-plus drop represented only a 6 percent decline in the Dow. And although there had been a 500-plus plunge 11 years earlier, on Oct. 19, 1987 -- so-called Black Monday -- the 508 points back then constituted a nose dive of 22.6 percent.
So the nation's economy, refocusing on the firmest fundamentals in decades, roared back in the fourth quarter of 1998, the Dow began flirting with the 10,000 mark and home-buying resurged.
"Everybody seems to have recovered their courage," said Clark Halstead, founder of the Halstead Property Company. "It's all psychological."
"The bidding wars, they're back," Mr. Halstead said, "and the prices being achieved are like the lead car at Indianapolis, with the rest of the market drafting -- that's an auto-racing term, where you get behind the leader and the air currents drag you along."
Dragged along, but also squeezed upward by the dearth of inventory.
Professor Schill at N.Y.U. pointed out that the city added roughly 120,000 households to its population between 1980 and 1996, but only 53,400 housing units, with the trend continuing over the last three years. "So demand has outstripped supply by more than 2 to 1," he said.
The crunch was indicated in the 1998 Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Report. The report, prepared by the Miller Samuel appraisal company, surveyed 7,542 sales south of West 116th Street and East 96th Street, an increase of 4 percent over the 7,249 sales in 1997. The pattern of low inventory and high price, said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, was clear for all apartment sizes except studios.
In the one-bedroom category, sales inched up only 0.6 percent, from 2,709 to 2,725. "Yet the average price increased 14 percent, from $210,275 to $239,613," Mr. Miller said. "That reflects the lack of inventory."
In the two-bedroom category, sales declined 4.1 percent, from 2,951 to 2,829, but the average price increased 14.3 percent, from $529,479 to $605,312.
The three-bedroom market "showed a similar pattern," Mr. Miller said, posting a 2.7 percent decline in sales, from 367 to 357, and an 18.2 percent increase in average price, from $1,296,964 to $1,532,981.
And the number of sales for apartments with four-plus bedrooms increased 1.3 percent, from 154 to 156, but average prices jumped 15.7 percent, from $2,966,068 to $3,431,469.
The Elliman report's findings for Manhattan studios did not conform to the pattern, largely because of an influx of young buyers, particularly those flocking to jobs in the burgeoning financial and information-age industries of the downtown area. Studio sales increased 46 percent, from 933 in 1997 to 1,360 last year, while the average price declined 8.7 percent, from $132,195 to $120,676 -- "indicative of the wider price range and smaller size of studio apartments, especially those below $100,000," Mr. Miller said.
Divining real estate trends by the numbers is, at best, a murky exercise. To begin with, co-op sales are not officially recorded because, technically, they are securities transactions involving the selling of shares, and not transfers of title. Condominium sales, however, are officially recorded. As a result, studies of co-op data compiled by brokerage houses and appraisal concerns do not claim to include all transactions in the market. Still, the numbers, along with anecdotal impressions, can serve as barometers of market patterns.
Prices are "a moving target," said Barbara Corcoran, chairwoman of the brokerage that bears her name. "Whatever we were selling two months ago, we're now selling for 10 percent more."
"The song of last spring," Ms. Corcoran said, "was customers complaining about not seeing enough. This year, they complain about not seeing anything."
Groans are emanating from brokers, too, so many of them bobbing for the same apple at the same time. "Brokers aren't tripping over each other," Ms. Corcoran said, "they're knocking each other down: get into the apartment first, get the seller to sign. The reality is that it's so hard to get your teeth into that apple."
IF the northernmost reaches of Central Park used to be a sort of demarcation line for high-end Manhattan, the line is blurring.
R. Kenyatta Punter is president of the Greater Harlem Real Estate Board and of the brokerage that bears his name. There are homes in the area, Mr. Punter said, now listing for $650,000 to $700,000. "A single-family in Hamilton Heights," he said, "might have sold for $475,000 in 1997, but recently there was a sale on Hamilton Terrace for $650,000."
Asked what a city bus driver could do facing those elevated prices, Mr. Punter said there are new condominiums coming on line at about $225,000. "If you have a bus driver who makes $40,000 a year and his wife makes $35,000," he said, "you're talking about income that most banks will underwrite for that $225,000."
Farther north, in Washington Heights, said Gus Perry, owner of Stein-Perry Real Estate, "We're getting pretty pricey, too."
"Pretty much everything that was available in the early- to mid-90's has been absorbed up here," Mr. Perry said, "and prices have increased since 1996, I would say, by 30 to 40 percent." A two-and-a-half-bedroom co-op "with a river view in Castle Village, which is our best complex here in Hudson Heights -- that's our new tag for that area -- sold in '96 for $201,000. Today, it could certainly fetch over $300,000."
In Brooklyn, where he was forced by one client's sticker shock to calculate the costs of gentrification, Mr. Thomas of the William B. May Company called the market "twitchy, because deals are so fragile, hard to keep together."
"A seller who is thrilled to receive multiple, full-price offers the first day," Mr. Thomas said, "is confronted on the second day with the question, 'Where do I go from here?' -- literally -- and discovers that he will be bidding against the disappointed buyers who could not buy his house."
Neighborhoods increasingly farther afield from Brooklyn Heights have seen "startling increases" in prices in recent months, Mr. Thomas said.
"I went out with a client the other day to whom I had sold a house two years ago in Park Slope," he said. "I was showing him property in Fort Greene, where he had looked when I sold him his first house. Prices had more than doubled."
To prove that the jump was not an aberration, Mr. Thomas checked records and found that in early 1998, a four-story, two-family town house on Clinton Street in Brooklyn Heights sold for just under $1 million. "Now, the least expensive one in Brooklyn Heights is $1,150,000," he said.
In neighboring Cobble Hill, in the beginning of 1998, a four-story town house could be purchased for just under $800,000, Mr. Thomas said. Current offerings in Cobble Hill range from $1.1 million to $1.4 million.
And in Prospect Heights, on the east side of Flatbush Avenue, a town house sold last year for $525,000. "This week," Mr. Thomas said, "a similar house nearby listed at $750,000 and had several bids at at least its asking price."
There are three multiple listing services in Brooklyn, and no central data source. But another measure of the market, the Case Shiller survey, confirms the price surge.
The survey is based on a table showing the average price for all single-family homes sold in ZIP-code areas, year by year. To determine price fluctuations in 1998, for example, the survey took the purchase price of each home sold in each ZIP-code area during the year just ended, compared it to the price the house brought the last time it sold, and then, using the annual index, adjusted the earlier price to what it likely would have been had it sold in 1997. The 1998 prices for homes within each ZIP-code area were then compared with the estimated 1997 prices to compute the average change.
In Brooklyn, where there are 36 ZIP-code areas, the survey showed that one area saw prices rise 4 to 6 percent, 17 by 6 to 8 percent, 13 by between 8 and 10 percent and five by 10 to 12 percent.
Some of the steepest increases were recorded in some of the poorest neighborhoods, like East New York and Brownsville. And as Mr. Shayovitz, the president of the Brooklyn Board of Realtors, said, "Bed-Stuy is no longer considered a poorer section for the purposes of real estate."
Asked what people priced out of those neighborhoods do, Mr. Shayovitz said: "You buy in East Flatbush for $130,000; but they are going to be smaller-type houses, 18-footers."
The low-inventory, higher-price scenario played out in Queens, too.
The borough, which comes under the aegis of the Long Island Board of Realtors, saw sales slip to 3,617 last year from 3,804 in 1997, a 4.9 percent drop. The average price, however, rose by 9.3 percent, from $163,718 to $179,018.
Of the 57 ZIP-code areas in Queens, according to Case Shiller, two saw prices rise by up to 4 percent, 14 by between 4 and 6 percent, 21 by 6 to 8 percent, 18 by 8 to 10 percent and two by 10 to 12 percent.
Barbara Frechter, president of the Long Island Board of Realtors and owner of Glenjay Realty in Forest Hills, said that inventory has been so tight that, "just as an example, we had an open house on a Saturday and my partner had 60 sets of people show up."
According to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island, which covers Queens, the median price (meaning half the sales are above that figure and half below) in Forest Hills was $238,000 in 1997 and $257,500 last year, an 8.1 percent increase. In Jackson Heights, the 1997 median was $206,000; last year it was $231,700, or 12.1 percent higher. And in Jamaica, the median price rose from $120,000 to $126,000, or 5 percent.
Gone are the days, Ms. Frechter said, when the co-ops of Queens "were crashing around us."
"So many buildings were in trouble five years ago, and you could buy a studio for $15,000," she said. "In Briarwood, there were so many foreclosures that the foreclosure price became the market price." Back then, the typical co-op in Queens sold for $30,000 or less, Ms. Frechter said, "and now they are probably up to $50ish."
If there is an anomaly in the city, it is Staten Island, with its suburban expanses and its semirural South Shore, struggling to find an appropriate balance with the demands of development. Those demands are reflected in the 2,431 sales recorded last year, a 23.4 percent increase over the 1,969 in 1997, according to the Staten Island Board of Realtors.
The board does not provide comprehensive prices for the borough, only by house type, said its president, Thomas Maira, owner of Maira Real Estate. The median for a single-family house was $189,000 last year, Mr. Maira said, a 6.2 percent increase over the $177,300 in 1997. For single-family semiattached homes, the median was $171,500, or 6.5 percent more than the $161,000 in 1997. And an attached home was $125,000 in 1997 and $132,000 last year, up 5.6 percent.
Of the 12 ZIP-code areas on Staten Island, one experienced price appreciation of between 4 and 6 percent, eight rose by between 6 and 8 percent and three increased by 8 to 10 percent, the Case Shiller survey reported.
NOWHERE is the city's housing rebound more pronounced than in the Bronx.
The statistics kept by the Bronx Board of Realtors are incomplete. But one broker, Haniff Baksh, vice president of ERA Besmatch, conducts his own survey, based on deed transfers recorded by the city's Department of Buildings.
Last year, total sales of one- to six-family homes in the Bronx reached 2,236, a 39.1 percent jump from the 1,607 in '97. Single-family home sales, taken alone, rose 37.7 percent, from 588 to 810.
"Inventory is a problem," Mr. Baksh said, "because if we look at the deed transfers -- an increase of 629 properties sold -- that would probably be the oversupply that has been on the market for most of the 90's; we've eaten up the oversupply. And, of course, that favors the sellers."
Indeed, the Case Shiller survey showed that every one of the 25 ZIP-code areas in the Bronx experienced price increases of at least 6 percent last year. One increased by 6 to 8 percent, five by 8 to 10 percent, 14 by between 10 and 12 percent and -- unlike any other areas in the city -- five jumped by at least 12 percent, including Riverdale and Eastchester.
"But something to note here," Mr. Baksh said, "is that in the South Bronx, where private builders are buying up land and building -- mostly two-families -- those properties would probably go for $225,000, and in some cases upward." With the supply-demand crunch, "buyers can no longer get into the market," Mr. Baksh said. "People who figured they could get a bargain look at many properties before realizing that that's not the reality, not in the Bronx any longer. They have to get their family together and pool their resources."
According to New York City's 1996 Housing and Vacancy Survey, nearly one out of four low- and middle-income households pays more than 50 percent of its income for housing costs. "This is an extraordinary housing-cost burden," N.Y.U.'s Professor Schill said. "The impact of rising home prices is a two-edged sword. On the one hand, it can make middle-income homeowners wealthy overnight; on the other hand, it is freezing out many middle- and lower-income families, particularly young families just starting out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Thomas, a broker, sees "bracket creep" in Brooklyn. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 
Charts: "In Manhattan, A Seller's Market"
Average sale prices, in thousands, for Manhattan apartments for sales of 75,000 or more from Battery Park City to East 96th Street or West 116th Street. (Source: Miller Samuel for Douglas Elliman)(pg. 1)
 
"The Loft Market"
Average sales prices by quarter for co-op loft apartments below 34th Street in Manhattan. In millions. (Source: Miller Samuel)(pg. 4)
 
Map: "Another Strong Year For Prices"
The map shows changes in the prices of single family houses sold in 1998 compared with the previous year in New York City, organized by ZIP code. Manhattan and some other parts of the city are not included because there were insufficient data available to the company that prepared the analysis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); SALES FIGURES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (52%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



569 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
FromUnemployed To Interview-Ready

BYLINE: By ALEX PRUD'HOMME 

 BODY:
THEY were 19 men down on their luck, and they came to the penthouse of the Times Square Hotel in New York at 1 P.M. on a rainy January day to get a big boost in their search for work.
A 20th man showed up at 2, one hour late, and was turned away. "Punctuality is expected in the real world," said Wayne Fletcher, director of the Jobs Cooperative Program at Grand Street Settlement and a member of the welcoming committee. "It's tough love." 
 If that sounded unforgiving, what happened next was like a gift from the gods. Each man got a haircut and grooming tips from professional stylists with Red Salon, an upscale chain, and each received about $1,700 worth of business clothing, including a trench coat, a suit, a dress shirt, a tie, a Coach watch and a pair of socks and Rockport shoes. The items were donated by the manufacturers and distributed by a new nonprofit organization called Career Gear that so far has raised just $4,000 toward its projected annual budget of $235,000.
David C. Woolard, 40, the vice chairman of Career Gear and a costume designer, fitted each job candidate individually before sending the suits to an express tailor shop for free alterations. As Mr. Woolard pinned his sleeve, Mikhail Murodov, an economist from Uzbekistan, said: "I'm feeling very emotional right now! So many people helping so many people."
Another participant, Samine Gibson of the Bronx, was having his beard trimmed. "I feel like a million bucks," exulted Mr. Gibson, who wants to enter music engineering. "It's my first suit since I was little. It makes me want to go out and get a job right now."
Then the men had their pictures taken. Brian Gurganious, a former postal clerk and a single parent of two girls, struck a pose and said, "I don't know why, but I can't stop smiling."
The American economy may be a giant job machine these days, with unemployment falling to 30-year lows and labor shortages developing in many parts of the country, but many employers still shun job seekers they view as undesirables. These include unskilled workers, recent immigrants and people who have coped with personal or family traumas. It is for them that Career Gear was formed late last year. Its simple premise is that a job seeker can greatly increase his chances of landing a job if he wears crisp business attire to the interview.
"The psychology of clothing is very important in our society," Mr. Woolard said. "Judgments are made in the first five seconds. When these guys put on a new suit, it's like putting on a suit of armor."
 OTHER groups, like Dress for Success in New York and the Bottomless Closet in Chicago, have provided "interview appropriate" clothing to women for years. Now, the movement is crossing the gender border with the formation of groups like Career Gear in New York and the Street Clothes Project in Philadelphia.
Career Gear was founded in October by Gary L. Field, 39, who recently quit his job as director of services for the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill in New York to devote all his attention to the project. Mr. Field said the need to teach the chronically unemployed the ins and outs of job-hunting has intensified with the spread of workfare programs aimed at moving people off welfare and into paying jobs.
"A lot of the people on welfare are totally unprepared to make the transition into a professional environment," he said. He added that he hopes to build a network of peers and mentors to help his clients cope with workplace problems and "deal with tricky things like office politics."
People are referred to Career Gear after learning job-seeking skills -- like how to write a resume and answer interview questions -- at work-readiness programs including the Employment Training Program for Recovering Alcoholics, the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty and the Federation of Employment and Guidance Services.
Today, two months after their makeover, some members of Career Gear's first class have found work while others are still looking. Mr. Gurganious, the single father, is one of the lucky ones, finding employment as a hardware store clerk. "I wore my suit to the interview, and I guess it worked," he said. "This job makes me feel like a brand-new person. The suit is my good-luck charm. It stays in the closet."
Gary Waytes, a fellow alumnus and former co-owner of a multimedia production company who said he has struggled with addictions, jail time and homelessness, landed a job at a mental-health clinic. "When you've been out of work, it's frightening to look for a job," he said. "My self-esteem was low. It's amazing how a change of clothes can make you feel so much more optimistic and confident."
Mr. Field knows how these men feel. Once addicted to drugs and alcohol himself, he said, he joined a program for recovering alcoholics, bought a $50 suit at a thrift store and regained control of his life. At 37, he graduated from New York University with a master's degree in social work, and eventually volunteered at Dress for Success. At the urging of Mr. Woolard, he created a similar program for men.
"I understand our clients because I am them," Mr. Field. "I tell them I should have been dead by age 30, and I say, 'If I can do it, so can you.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Samine Gibson of the Bronx, who wants a job in music engineering, began his makeover in a sweater and slacks and exited with a trimmed beard and "my first suit since I was little." (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GRAND STREET SETTLEMENT (NYC) CAREER GEAR (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAND STREET SETTLEMENT (NYC) CAREER GEAR (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MEN; BARBERS AND BARBERING; APPAREL INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BARBER SHOPS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PRUD'HOMME, ALEX GARY L FIELD (60%); DAVID C WOOLARD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



570 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 4; Column 1; Style Desk

HEADLINE: EVENING HOURS;
Orchids, Wine And Asian Art

 BODY:
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: March 24, 7:50 P.M.: A preview of the International Asian Art Fair at the Seventh Regiment Armory raised $400,000 for the Asia Society. Some of the guests wore Asian-inspired dress. Two court princesses in painted earthenware from the Tang Dynasty (A.D. 618 to 906), at the A. J. Speelman booth. YAMINI MEHTA, one of 1,200 guests, wore a sari. 8:05 P.M.: LIU DAN, and JANA VOLF in Geoffrey Beene. 8:15: From left, OGEN LHAMS, PALMO TSERING and PEMA LHAKYI, in Tibetan dress. 8:10: Dr. VICTORIA CHAN-PALAY, in Javanese dress. 8:45: MARY WALACH wearing Issey Miyake pleats. 7:45: KAREN KARP in Asian dress and scarf. 8:40: EVA CHING in a contemporary design. 8:20: TARYN HIGASHI wearing a print by Vivienne Tam. March 25, 7:45 P.M.: A benefit dinner for the High School of Economics and Finance, located in the heart of Wall Street, raised over $350,000 for the school's library campaign. The evening's special guests, JOAN and SANFORD I. WEILL. The school's Sanford I. Weill Institute offers 700 students eight-week seminars led by industry professionals. March 23, 7:50 P.M.: A limited edition of 20,000 magnums of wine was introduced at Le Cirque 2000 by the Italian winemaker BONA FRESCOBALDI, above right, and fashion designer GIANFRANCO FERRE, center, who designed the wine bottle. Left, SIRIO MACCIONI, the restaurant's owner. The wine, produced in 1993 and available for drinking this New Year's Eve, will cost $450 a bottle. March 22, 7:10 P.M.: "China Chic: East Meets West," a fashion exhibition at the Fashion Institute of Technology, will run through April 24. Three New York designers participated in a discussion on Chinese influences on design, followed by a reception. Among the panelists, were, from left, AMY CHAN; VALERIE STEELE, curator of the show; HAN FENG, and YEOHLEE. March 22: La Scuola d'Italia, a bilingual school, held a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria, raising $120,000 for the school's endowment. 8:10 P.M.: FERDINANDO SALLEO, the Italian Ambassador to the United States, greeting CHRISTINA LANG ASSAEL. Center, SERENA MAMBERTI. 7:40 P.M.: From left, ELIZABETH FIORELLI, FRANCESCA VITIELLO, FRANCESCA FRAZZITTA and MATILDE MARINAI, all students. 7:50 P.M.: LUCIANO PAVAROTTI and NICOLETTA MANTOVANI were among the 200 guests. From left, VIOLA VITIELLO, GRETA VEZZOLI and ANNA BOVE were among the students to sing and recite poetry. March 24: A preview of the 1999 New York International Orchid Show, which displays more than 5,000 orchid plants from 70 exhibitors in the World Financial Center's Winter Garden. The 19th annual show is on view through today. 6:35 P.M.: PATTI LEE and CARLOS FIGHETTI, president of the Greater New York Orchid Society, examining the plant that won best species of the show, a waterfall of white orchids. 6:50 P.M.: EMILY FRICK and DAVID BOOTH, with purchased orchids. March 23: A preview of the exhibition, "Unveiling Royal Nepal," by Dirga Man Chitrakar, court photographer to the Rana Maharajas of Nepal from 1901 to 1945, benefited the Kathmandu Valley Preservation Trust. 6:30 P.M.: From left, KIRAN MAN CHITRAKAR, LEON J. WEIL and NARENDRA B. SHAH. 6:15 P.M.: AMY FINE COLLINS and GAUTAM S. J. B. RANA, a descendant of the royals. 6:40 P.M.: LUCIE JAY and SUSAN LODGE. (Photographs by BILL CUNNINGHAM/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NEPAL (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); TIBET (79%); ITALY (74%); CHINA (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (59%); 

CITY: KATHMANDU, NEPAL (59%); 

COMPANY: THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEPAL (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); TIBET (79%); ITALY (74%); CHINA (59%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (59%); KATHMANDU, NEPAL (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



571 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
New Home For a Lost Generation Of Innovators

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif.

 BODY:
LIKE a growing number of young Asian entrepreneurs, Nobuhiro Michishita saw a future for himself in cyberspace but felt that he had to go to the United States to pursue it.
"We are trying to develop a business model for the future, and it is much easier to do it here than at home" said Mr. Michishita, 38, a computer scientist from Japan. "Computer people in their 20's and 30's, they don't look to Japan but to Silicon Valley for ways to work the Internet." 
 In America, Mr. Michishita has become something he was unlikely to be in Japan: a serial entrepreneur. Operating out of the International Business Incubator, a joint venture of San Jose State University and the San Jose city government, he has given life to N & S Consulting, an Internet consultancy that also has offices in Tokyo; Cyberspace Navigation, which sells Japanese-made toys on the Web from a base in nearby Los Altos, and other ventures.
The incubator, a modest downtown high-rise, has become a magnet for a dozen or so entrepreneurs from Asia who, like Mr. Michishita, left home frustrated at the costs and obstacles in the way of new ideas there.
Mr. Michishita tried starting a business in Japan but lost patience with delays and governmental paperwork. He hired an expediter to help him navigate the bureaucracy, but his application for a business license was rejected over technicalities. Not so in America. "When I went to Los Altos City Hall to incorporate, right away they gave me a paper and said, 'Congratulations and good luck,' " he said.
Japan, too, has business incubators meant to foster new technology enterprises, but Mr. Michishita said the bureaucrats who run them care more about edifices than entrepreneurs. "An incubator in Japan is basically a big building; they still are oriented around the hardware," he said. "There is no knowledge, no exchange of information."
Only a decade ago, Japan and its East Asian neighbors were seen as a technological juggernaut that would soon overtake the United States, with powerful companies like Matsushita, Sony and Samsung in the lead and young scientists like Mr. Michishita expected to follow. But the Internet has changed all that. Fleet-footed entrepreneurs in America are now out in front while Asia's corporate giants and the countries that bred them struggle to adapt.
Although use of the Internet is growing in Asia, the gap with the United States remains wide. Japan, Asia's dominant economy, has about 9.6 computers connected to the Internet for for every 1,000 people, half as many as in the United States, according to Jupiter Communications, a consulting company that compiles Internet statistics.
In on-line commerce, Asia is even further behind, according to the International Data Corporation. In 2001, Asia is expected to account for 17 percent of all Internet commerce, while the United States will have more than 60 percent.
In the past, Asian countries closed technological gaps by making huge investments in research and development. But the Internet poses a challenge not easily overcome with engineering and money, according to Sung Kim, who came to San Jose from South Korea last year to found Nextream, a software company.
"In the past, we saw a technology from a U.S. company and followed it," said Mr. Kim, 38, of his days at Samsung, his former employer. "Now it's not a matter so much of getting the technology; it's the ideas about how to use it that matter. Take a company like Yahoo. It's not really a technology, it's about an idea."
 NEXTREAM develops software to link mainframe computers to the Internet and sells it mainly to Korean banks and other financial institutions. But like Mr. Michishita, Mr. Kim said he had to leave a stifling environment -- in his case, the world of South Korea's giant chaebol conglomerates -- to embark on the venture.
The top-down management style and emphasis on manufacturing at Samsung led executives there to think of products as ideas conceived by executives and then executed with precision by engineers, Mr. Kim said. He and his fellow founders of Nextream's small Seoul-based parent company, Cheong Ji, wanted instead to emulate the more flexible and informal management style popular in Silicon Valley.
Mike Morishita, formerly with Nippon Telephone and Telegraph, points to another problem: Many top Asian executives personally know little about the Internet. In a recent Andersen Consulting survey, only 13 percent of Japanese top executives said they were "comfortable" or "familiar" with the Internet, compared with 46 percent of their American counterparts. Nearly 3 in 10 Japanese executives said they did not even have access to cyberspace, compared with just 1 percent of the Americans.
As a result, Mr. Morishita said, Nippon Telephone tends to treat the Internet not as an opportunity but rather as a reason to increase rates. In the United States, local calls to an Internet service provider are typically free, but in Japan they are usually toll calls, adding $100 a month to the phone bill of someone using the Internet for an hour a day. High-speed lines for businesses also cost much more in Japan than in America.
"It's too expensive to do this business in Japan," said Mr. Morishita, who now, at 32, has a successful computer consulting business, MM Systems, in the Los Angeles suburb of Torrance. MM Systems designs Web sites for a mix of Japanese companies including Imperial Hotel, Nissin Foods and even Nippon Telephone, as well as American companies like Earthlink Network, an Internet service provider based in Pasadena, Calif.
But the biggest problem for Internet companies in Asia may be the cultural adhesion that helped propel the region's economic growth for three decades, according to Akira Tsurukame, a business consultant in Los Angeles. "Japan is a place where the ties between people are very strong and people like to do business with people they know personally," he said. "The Internet is about networking strangers to talk to each other," which is a threat to the interlocking networks of suppliers and distributors on which big Japanese companies depend.
But it would be wrong to assume that Japan will stay that way forever, he said. He and Mr. Michishita have started an organization called Business Cafe to attract Japanese Internet entrepreneurs to the San Jose incubator this year, with the goal of sending the new cyberculture back to the home islands. Applications have come in not just from young entrepreneurs but also from well-placed executives at Mitsubishi Electric, Toshiba and Sony.
"A lot of people are feeling frustration with Japan now and want to find a different way to make things work," Mr. Michishita said. "People see the value in coming to Silicon Valley."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Morishita, who left Nippon Telephone and Telegraph to start a Web consulting business in Torrance, Calif., said the Japanese company viewed the Internet not as an opportunity but as a reason to raise fees. He stood behind a pane of glass in his office. (Ed Carreon for The New York Times); Sung Kim, head of a San Jose, Calif., start-up company that is developing software to link banks to the Internet, found that he had to leave a stifling corporate environment in his native South Korea to build a business based on the World Wide Web. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (60%); SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); REFUGEES (74%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); 

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



572 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Style Desk

LENGTH: 2399 words

HEADLINE: Harlem After Dark Is Cooking Again

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL

 BODY:
ONCE, clusters of dapper night owls would zigzag down the broad, limestone-lined avenues of Harlem, from jazz joint to rent party to cabaret. In 1929, during the Harlem Renaissance, Variety reported: "When it comes to pep, pulchritude, punch and presentation, the Harlem places have Broadway's nightclubs distanced. Celebrities in all walks of life 'make' the Harlem joints every night. You'll likely see a Lady Mountbatten on the ringside of the Cotton Club, a David Belasco at another and a diplomat in the next."
Those who live in the 50 or so blocks above Central Park like to term what's happening in the area today Harlem's Second Renaissance, with the return of black professionals, new businesses, increased tourism and a rebirth of night life. While the term may be strained, it is not far from the truth. Economic development, historical preservation and plummeting crime rates in the area have contributed to a kind of boom. 
 Visiting Harlem's clubs, restaurants and bars now is like watching a small bud begin to bloom. In a few years, said Berta Alloway, a music promoter for some of the night spots, Harlem may come to resemble its old self again.
"A lot of people are moving back to Harlem, and they have money, and they'd rather spend it here," she said. "There's money coming back up here, and people are coming back out to the clubs also. They're coming from all over. A lot of Caucasian people are coming back uptown, and they're not afraid to hang around. I look around at night and say, 'Didn't the tour bus leave?' and they say, 'We're not going anywhere.' "
Al Howard, one of the two owners of Showmans, since 1942 a staple of Harlem night life, which moved to a new address on 125th Street in August, said that more than half of his clientele on any given night are from out of town or from Manhattan below 110th Street.
"We do get a lot of trade from downtown, a lot more than people realize," he said. "Once people come here, they see how safe it is, they come back, and they tell their friends."
In the last five years, there has been a 77 percent decrease in homicides in the area surrounding the 28th Precinct in central Harlem, according to the Police Department. (The citywide murder rate has decreased 67 percent in the same period.)
The Harlem scene today is part nostalgia, part novelty. Some of the recognizable places, like the Apollo Theater, the Cotton Club and even the famous Sylvia's Restaurant, maintain a steady tourist trade but don't attract local residents in the same numbers. Other traditional joints, like Showmans, the Lenox Lounge, Perk's Fine Cuisine and St. Nick's Pub, have found ways to maintain their popularity through new events, like a gay night at the Lenox Lounge; with theme evenings, like jazz, rhythm and blues and calypso at Perk's every Thursday, or by sheer force of will.
At the same time, new clubs and cafes like the Sugar Shack, Miss Mamie's Spoonbread Too, Emily's Restaurant and Bar, Londel's Supper Club, Cafe Largo, the Gishen Cafe and the Audubon Bar and Grill, are luring a different crowd, with tap dancing, open-mike poetry nights, even comedy.
"There's tremendous opportunity up here right now," said Marc Calcano, who opened Cafe Largo on Broadway near 137th Street last June and just began presenting live jazz on Sunday and Monday nights. "The volume of traffic here now is tremendous. Harlem was vacant for a very long time, and it's about half filled now, and I believe that in the next two to three years, tops, it's going to be filled to capacity again."
Still, not everyone is convinced of the inevitability of Harlem's comeback. A few years ago, Robert De Niro and his restaurateur partner, Drew Nieporent, announced plans to reopen Minton's Playhouse, a legendary jazz hall known as the birthplace of bebop, by late 1997. But today, there is no Minton's. The project has stalled, Mr. Nieporent said, because investors are wary of signing on to this $3.1 million project.
Even without Minton's, there is no lack of excitement at clubs operating now. At 2:30 A.M. on a recent Monday, while the musicians at St. Nick's Pub were gearing up for another set, Ms. Alloway, dressed in leopard-skin eyeglass frames, a floppy black hat and a leopard-skin velvet shirt, surveyed the boisterous and packed room, where the cabaret tables were piled high with full ashtrays, empty beer bottles and plates of oxtail stew. "No one should have to work on Tuesdays," she said, pitying those who had to get up in the morning.
Harlem's night life begins, like the workweek, on Monday. At around 8 P.M., those with a taste for gumbo, banana pudding and Diana Ross gather at Miss Mamie's Spoonbread Too, a restaurant sprung from a well-known catering company. The decor is a cross between the Southern kitchen and pop art, with a bold red and yellow checkered floor and 1950's-style kitchen tables. In front of the large windows, a pianist playing a small upright leads the crowd in a sing-along or allows poets to share their craft.
About the same time, a more sophisticated crowd is settling in at Wells Famous Home of Chicken and Waffles, where the 16-piece Harlem Renaissance Swing Band packs into the main dining room. The house specialty is fried chicken and waffles, once an after-hours breakfast treat, now a main course on the evening menu. Dancers from the New York Swing Society, led by Frank Manning, occupy the front table and take the floor by turns.
The long tables where everyone sits together are packed with white and black groups, small clusters of tourists from Japan or France, as well as an occasional celebrity just off a film shoot. The dress code ranges from tube tops to floor-length furs, but within an hour, when the food and drinks start flowing, everyone is talking to everyone else.
The dancing picks up around 11:30, when the novice swing dancers are lubricated enough to brave the floor next to the professionals and old-timers. But by then, it's time to move on to St. Nick's Pub on St. Nicholas Avenue and 149th Street, where you can still snag an empty table before the jam session starts to bubble. At St. Nick's, a narrow dive a few steps down from the street, free jazz, accompanied at times by singers and occasional tap dancers, begins at 11 P.M. and goes on until 3 A.M., and many notable musicians -- Stevie Wonder, Etta Jones and James Carter among them -- have been known to drop in for a round.
"The musicians that play downtown and play abroad, they don't play our club for the money," said Ms. Alloway, who also goes by the professional name Berta Indeed. "But they come up because it's like home. They'll come up and sit in with us."
By 3 A.M., part of the audience from St. Nick's or Wells has arrived at the counter at M & G Diner, 383 West 125th Street, which advertises itself in hot pink neon as "Old Fashion' but Good." The R-and-B jukebox pumps out Billie Holiday or the Spinners, and a pat of bright yellow butter shimmers in a plate of grits like the rising sun.
Then there's Tuesday night, which is gay night at the Lenox Lounge, beginning around midnight. "You take a nap when you get home, and you take another nap after you get home from work," one patron, a Brooklynite, 36, explained. He was seated on the crescent-shaped red leather couches that line the Art Deco bar.
The Lenox Lounge has been a neighborhood mainstay since it was opened at Harlem's hub, Lenox Avenue and 125th Street, in 1942. But two years ago, a young promoter calling himself Cris Is Bliss put together gay night, with live deejays spinning funk and hip-hop. The steamy Zebra Room fills up by 12:30, and sleek black bodies pack the dance floor until about 4. The lounge is the only club open to the public that caters to gay men (Emily's has a ladies night for women), although up to 15 years ago, Harlem had a handful of gay clubs.
"It's been a long time since I've known about a place like this in Harlem," said the Brooklynite, who did not want to be identified, adding that as the quality of services improves in the neighborhood, he expects to see more such places. "There's better policing, and there are more companies like Duane Reade up here, and people feel more comfortable getting off the train and walking around."
On Wednesdays, the Sugar Shack offers an open-mike poetry slam, where performers in dreadlocks or with shaved heads recite verses or read raplike meditations to drumbeats, keyboard and flutes. Odell Holland Fincher, 27, who opened the club in January 1998, hoped to create a blend of uptown and downtown that was "spiritual to a certain extent, but not overbearing," he said, adding, "I wanted it to be homey, so people could come and feel they were sitting in their grandmother's living room."
The large, open, Southern-style kitchen, which prominently displays boxes of Quaker Oatmeal, serves up candied yams, smothered chicken and hearty soup. The rest of the club is clearly inspired by a SoHo look, except for the kente cloth tacked on a couple of walls.
Later in the evening, the Audubon Bar and Grill, which opened in 1996, lures people uptown to a comedy night, with Angelo Lozada as host. The roundup presents comedians who have performed on HBO, Comedy Central and late-night television shows, including Greer Barnes, Eric Nieves and Patrice O'Neal. The large, brightly lighted club serves chicharones, yuca fries, chicken wings and other bar food, as well as mixed drinks for $3, but warns "no hoodies, no hats and no sneakers," if you want to get in.
Thursdays might find a night owl at Perk's, a narrow bar joined to an equally narrow white-table-cloth restaurant, where a jazz, rhythm and blues and calypso band performs so close to the front entrance that it is hard to get in or out. Thursday is also a good night at Showmans, where tap dancers and jazz musicians perform for an older crowd dressed in three-piece suits and fedoras.
LeRoy Myels, a former tap dancer, who has spent evenings at Showmans, on stage and off, since 1942, said he is pleased to see a new generation venturing to Harlem clubs. In 1949, he said, Showmans was the unofficial meeting place of the Copacetics tap dance group. Today, it attracts dancers from the recently closed long-running Broadway musical "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk."
"Kids now are a little different, but the tap is still the same," Mr. Myels said. "The crowd has definitely increased since they moved."
The weekend picks up, with live jazz and blues or deejays spinning dance mixes at almost every spot, including St. Nick's, Showmans, Perk's, the Lenox Lounge, Wells, the Cotton Club, the elegant but spare Londel's Supper Club and a new Ethiopian restaurant, the Gishen Cafe.
On Sunday, the action grinds to a halt. But then, on Monday, it starts all over again.
 
Where Music Fills the Uptown Nights
The addresses and schedules for some clubs that are hopping in Harlem follow.
 
AUDUBON BAR AND GRILL
 
 3956 Broadway, at 166th Street
 (212) 928-5200
 Comedy on Wednesdays at 9:30 P.M. Dance party on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, at 10:30.
 Cover: Usually $5.
 
CAFE LARGO
 
 3387 Broadway, near 137th Street
 (212) 862-8142
 Live jazz on Mondays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, at 8 P.M.
 Cover: $5.
 
COTTON CLUB
 
 656 West 125th Street, at Riverside Drive
 (212) 663-7980
 Jazz on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays (call for starting times). Swing on Mondays at 7 P.M.
 Cover: $30 for jazz, with all-you-can-eat buffet; $15 for swing.
 
EMILY'S RESTAURANT AND BAR
 
 1325 Fifth Avenue, at 111th Street
 (212) 996-1212
 Ladies' night with live deejay and dancing on Wednesdays at 7 P.M. Live jazz on Thursdays at 8. Live deejay and dancing on Fridays at 10.
 Cover: $5 on Thursdays only.
 
GISHEN CAFE
 
 2150 Fifth Avenue, near 131st Street
 (212) 283-7699
 Jazz on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 9 P.M. Ethiopian band on Fridays and Saturdays at 1 A.M. A deejay plays reggae on Sundays at 10 P.M.
 Cover: Jazz, $10; Ethiopian, reggae, $7
 
LENOX LOUNGE
 
 288 Lenox Avenue, at 125th Street
 (212) 427-0253
 Jazz on Mondays at 10 P.M., Fridays and Saturdays at 9 and 10:30. Gay night on Tuesdays at midnight.
 Cover: $8; none on Mondays.
 
LONDEL'S SUPPER CLUB
 
 2620 Frederick Douglass Boulevard (Eighth Avenue), at 140th Street
 (212) 234-6114
 Live jazz on Fridays and Saturdays at 8 P.M. Open-mike night on Thursdays at 10. From April 21, the 16-piece Charlie Byrd Band will play jazz and pop every Wednesday at 8.
 Cover: $5; $10 minimum.
 
MISS MAMIE'S SPOONBREAD TOO
 
 366 West 110th Street, at Columbus Avenue
 (212) 865-6744
 Open-mike nights on Mondays at 9. Occasional Saturday sing-alongs at 9.
 Cover: None.
 
PERK'S FINE CUISINE
 
 553 Manhattan Avenue, at 123d Street
 (212) 666-8500
 Live calypso on Mondays at 7 P.M. R-and-B, jazz and calypso on Wednesdays and Thursdays at 7. Deejay on Fridays and Saturdays at 10.
 Cover: $7 after 10 P.M. on Fridays and Saturdays.
 
ST. NICK'S PUB
 
 773 St. Nicholas Avenue, at 149th Street
 (212) 283-9728
 Jazz every night except Tuesday, at 9:30 P.M. Open jam sessions on Mondays and Thursdays at 11. Open-mike night for singers on Wednesdays at 9.
 Cover: $5 for two; two-drink minimum.
 
SHOWMANS
 
 375 West 125th Street, at St. Nicholas Avenue
 (212) 864-8941
 Live jazz Monday through Thursday at 8 P.M., 10 and midnight. Live jazz on Fridays and Saturdays at 10 P.M., midnight and 2 A.M. Tap dance on Thursdays at all shows.
 Cover: None; two-drink minimum.
 
THE SUGAR SHACK
 
 2611 West 139th Street, at Frederick Douglass Boulevard (Eighth Avenue)
 (212) 491-4422
 Jazz on Saturdays at 8 P.M. Open-mike poetry on Wednesdays at 8.
 Cover: $5.
 
WELLS FAMOUS HOME OF CHICKEN AND WAFFLES
 
 2247 Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard (Seventh Avenue), near 132d Street
 (212) 234-0700
 Harlem Renaissance Orchestra on Mondays at 9 P.M. Jazz combo on Fridays and Saturdays at 9:30.
 Cover: Mondays, $15 food minimum, plus $5 music charge; no cover on Fridays and Saturdays.
 
HI-DE-HO HARLEM TOUR
 
 Harlem at night, with Michael Henry Adams, a neighborhood historian, starts with dinner at Miss Mamie's Spoonbread Too and ends at the jam session at St. Nick's Pub. Through April on Monday nights. Information: (212) 281-5802.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Midori Asakura, left, with her dance teacher, Frankie Manning, and the band at Wells. Monday night is open-mike night at St. Nick's Pub, drawing guest musicians like the drummer here greeting a group from Hoboken, N.J. Frantz Casseus leaves them laughing on comedy night at the Audubon Bar and Grill. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Dancing to the band at Wells Famous Home of Chicken and Waffles. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GISHEN CAFE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DRINKING PLACES (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); MURDER (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TOURISM (69%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



573 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS to COURTLAND COX;
Strength In Diversity, And in Unity

BYLINE: By PAUL SWEENEY 

 BODY:
IT is not unusual for businesspeople with a common background to join together to promote economic development and entrepreneurship in their community, forming groups like the Asian American Business Development Center in New York.
Now these groups are finding that they can magnify their effectiveness by banding together into minority-group coalitions, a move encouraged by the Minority Business Development Agency of the Commerce Department. 
 Courtland Cox, the director of the agency, was in New York last week for the release of a research report by the Asian center. The report calls for greater economic collaboration among Asian, Hispanic, African-American and other minority groups, which together command $1.1 trillion in consumer purchasing power, according to John Wang, the center's president.
Mr. Cox discussed the report's findings and the challenges of minority business development. PAUL SWEENEY
 
Q. Do you see small-business development and entrepreneurship as the best route out of poverty?
 
A. Yes. The real issues minorities face are economic rather than social. People try to deal with illegitimacy and crime and drug addiction, but these are the effects, not the root causes, of problems. It is important to develop a business and economic infrastructure that can deal with the real issues of jobs, economic development and the creation of wealth.
When I look at a map of where murders take place in Washington, basically it is east of 16th Street Northwest, where there is more poverty and higher unemployment. There are almost no murders west of 16th Street, where the wealth is. Where you have access to opportunity, you have less crime.
If you're a minority businessperson, it's an exciting time, because you're in a dynamic growth area. The United States population is expected to grow by 120 million people over the next 50 years, and 90 percent of that growth will be in the minority community. If you look at where the markets for the future are, it's clear that's where they will be.
 
Q. Does minority entrepreneurship translate directly into more jobs for minority workers?
 
A. Yes, the numbers will show you that. Recently I went up to Detroit to see Bing Manufacturing. Dave Bing, the former basketball player, has an automotive assembly operation that included 15 percent of employees who were ex-offenders, predominantly nonwhite. Detroit also has Mexican Industries, a $300 million company that has hired about 2,000 people, most of them Hispanic, who make parts and do assembly work for G.M., Ford Motor and Chrysler.
These are private-sector initiatives. A lot of big companies realize that markets change and they have to include minorities, not because it's nice or legal, but so that they can sell into the market. I.B.M. just created its first minority distributorship. These guys aren't stupid. They want to be where markets are.
 
Q. Researchers say lack of access to financing is a roadblock to minority business creation, and the Administration has responded this year by proposing tax credits and Government loan programs for struggling inner-city areas. What should the private sector be doing?
 
A. We need a mechanism for banks and other financial institutions to sell off their loans to minority enterprises, instead of waiting for them to mature before they can lend more money. There is now much more mortgage money because banks are selling off mortgages and securitizing them. We need to apply the same principle to business loans.
 
Q. Your agency is encouraging coalitions among different minority groups, like the Minority Business Coordinating Council in Washington. How far has this cooperation advanced? Will it be hampered by past tensions between some groups?
 
A. This is a new concept, and it's just in the discussion stages. We still have a ghetto mentality, where people fight over crumbs. Many people still think the world is their block and don't see the possibilities in the larger world. But I don't think groups will be that far apart once they understand the opportunities that exist. People are crossing all sorts of ethnic and national boundaries, and business is more important than ethnic prejudices.
 
Q. Do you agree with John Wang that in a global economy, American entrepreneurs of Asian or Hispanic background may have an advantage in dealing internationally?
 
A. America has the diverse population to position itself internationally. I have people in my office who have the feel for different countries. In an international economy, we need people who understand different languages and different cultures.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The real issues minorities face are economic," not social, Courtland Cox says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CO (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (57%); MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (57%); MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS MINORITY BUSINESSES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); BASKETBALL (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (52%); 

PERSON: COX, COURTLAND MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



574 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Corporate Profits Are Tasty, But Artificially Flavored

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE winter quarter ends on Wednesday, and as the crocuses emerge, public attention turns to profits. The stock market in the coming weeks will ride -- up or down -- on the quarterly profit reports that will spew forth soon from corporate America. Will those reports signal continuing economic strength? If so, is corporate America reporting its profits truthfully?
That may seem a startling question to pose in the United States. Crony capitalists in emerging countries may inflate profits irresponsibly without raising eyebrows. But the phenomenon is popping up right here in disciplined America, and not just among a handful of black-sheep companies. "I fear we are witnessing a gradual, but noticeable, erosion in the quality of financial reporting," Arthur Levitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said last week, repeating a diagnosis that first appeared in his speeches last fall. 
 That icon of business, Warren E. Buffett, has also weighed in, rather bluntly. Like Mr. Levitt, he blames the stock market for pressuring chief executives into reporting ever higher earnings so that their companies' stock prices will keep up with the ever-rising market, like a cat chasing its tail. They try to achieve the necessary earnings legitimately, Mr. Buffett wrote recently, but when they fail to do so, they "resort to unadmirable accounting strategems" that "manufacture the desired 'earnings.' "
The potential damage is alarming. Profits have climbed rapidly in recent years, and this growth has contributed mightily to the stock market's euphoria and to the impression that corporate America has outclassed other countries in the global economy. Rising profits, in fact, have become an emblem of the nation's apparent success. And now the emblem may be less than advertised -- considerably less, if enough companies, prodded by the S.E.C., find themselves forced to change their accounting practices.
"There is no doubt that, on average, reported profits are overstated," said Baruch Lev, a professor of accounting at New York University's Stern School of Business. "My intuition tells me that profitability in the United States is basically solid, but there is a layer of earnings that is illusionary."
No one has quantified how many billions would disappear if accounting practices changed, but there are hints. One gimmick involves the stock options that corporations increasingly award to executives as a way to fatten pay. Under current accounting rules, those options do not have to be listed as a cost and subtracted from earnings. Last year, the large companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gave out $10.4 billion in options without reporting them as compensation expense. That was 3 percent of the companies' $325 billion in after-tax earnings, so their actual earnings were closer to $315 billion.
Stock options are relatively easy to track; they appear as footnotes in reports filed with the S.E.C. Jack Ciesielski of R. G. Associates in Baltimore, which researches accounting issues, came up with the $10.4 billion figure by going through the filings.
A bigger source of overstated profits -- corporate restructuring charges -- is harder to unravel.
Consider a big corporation that announces a $2 billion restructuring charge to cover the cost of integrating a newly acquired company and the cost of severance for laid-off workers. The $2 billion is all charged against this year's earnings, making them look bad, although the actual costs are spread out over two or three years. But the $2 billion is intentionally overestimated; the actual cost turns out to be $1.5 billion. And the company has a de facto $500 million reserve that is fed gradually into quarterly earnings reports, making net income seem to rise robustly.
From news reports last year, Mr. Ciesielski's firm tracked 1,400 restructuring charges totaling $76 billion. "I think that is a light figure," he said. "We probably missed quite a few."
 And there are other ways to make profits seem bigger.
Corporate executives increasingly manipulate charges related to research and development and to depreciation, the accounting device that recognizes the gradual wearing out of machinery and other assets.
Or they stop the clock, as Walter P. Schuetze, chief accountant of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, noted in an acerbic speech last December. He cited one company that had "turned back its computer clock that recorded and dated shipments so that out-of-period shipments, and consequently revenue, would be recorded" in the just-ended quarter, fattening that quarter's profit.
 SUCH deeds do not just affect shareholders of the business. Some well-known companies -- for example, Sunbeam, Sensormatic and Livent Inc. -- have had to restate earnings in recent months, correcting one or another accounting misstep. Such announcements have often caused a company's stock to plunge, contributing to the market's considerable volatility.
There is a broader concern. The robust growth in corporate profits in recent years has been billboard advertising for the American market system, which has seemed more successful than the less prosperous, and more regulated, European and Japanese models. Now the American billboard needs a warning label, one that using Mr. Ciesielski's words might say: "Earnings gaming is widespread." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS WARREN BUFFETT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



575 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
The Time-Killing 1040

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years will appear the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IF there is any time of year that most of us would love to skip, this is it. Taxes are due in less than three weeks, and only two weekends remain for us to lock ourselves away and get the chore done. The pressure is on.
Although the amount of taxes we pay is cause for much debate, the time required to prepare the forms can be just as vexatious. Of the estimated 126.2 million individual tax returns that will be filed this year, almost half will be completed by taxpayers themselves, not accountants. And even those who use professional help must spend many hours compiling their records. 
 Either way, it is a big job. And the burden falls hardest on baby boomers. According to the Tax Foundation, a research organization in Washington, boomers will pay 70 percent of the $877.4 billion tax bill for individuals this year. And, because their finances tend to be complex, the foundation estimates that they will spend about a third more time preparing Form 1040 and its many schedules than the average American -- 40 hours instead of 30.
"They are at the peak of their earnings and have children and houses," said Patrick Fleenor, a foundation economist. "Younger and older people tend to have much simpler filings."
That raises questions beyond whether the tax system is fair. Considering that boomers, now into middle age, are at the height of their earning power, creativity and productivity, there must be a social cost in forcing them to spend millions of hours a year at their kitchen tables trying to maneuver through the tax code.
THE opportunity cost of the time they're spending is very large," said James M. Buchanan of George Mason University, winner of the 1987 Nobel Prize in economics. "It's a waste."
Mr. Fleenor called it "brilliance lost."
"This is the whole reason tax reform proposals have weight," he said. "Tax preparation doesn't add anything to society's worth. Nothing positive is coming out of it."
There is, of course, no way to measure what could have been; would boomers really use the extra time more productively, or would we just lie around listening to old Beatles albums? But we can measure the opportunity noted by Mr. Buchanan. The Tax Foundation estimates that the time Americans spend doing their taxes robs the economy of $18 billion.
A TAXPAYER in Malibu, Calif., who requested anonymity, said he spent about 90 hours on his taxes. Throughout the year, he said, he is meticulous about record-keeping because he runs a business out of his home.
"I have several careers," he said. "One of them is doing my taxes. It's a tremendous waste of my time. I should be spending it with my family or out making more money."
David P. Mulford, a computer programmer and musician in St. Louis, said he usually puts off doing his taxes until April.
"I dread doing them more than I do paying" the taxes owed, he said. "It's such a headache. When I get home from work, I don't want to spend three or four hours doing my taxes. I want to visit with friends or work on my music."
Mr. Buchanan said he was a recent convert to proposals for a simple-to-calculate flat tax, with no deductions. Others critics of the current system are calling for a national sales tax. And the other day a friend jokingly suggested requiring high-school juniors to fill out the nation's tax returns, giving the youngsters the chance to make their math skills relevant while freeing up time for their elders.
It seems that everyone has an idea for cleaning up the tax mess, but as Mr. Fleenor observed, the history of the tax-overhaul movement is not reassuring. Within years of any move to simplify the process, he said, Congress bows to special interests and complicates it all over again.
"When people are just playing around with the tax code, trying to find ways to avoid paying taxes, they are not engaged in creating wealth," he said. "People's time could be much better spent inventing the better mousetrap."
Or the better tax system.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Joel Priddy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TAX FOUNDATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAX FOUNDATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (95%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); TAX REFORM (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



576 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3067 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Hidden Costs in On-Line Trading

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
MILLIONS of Americans have rushed into the brave new world of electronic stock trading. Armed with fast computers and sophisticated software, they see themselves not only at the market's epicenter but also on the same plain as professional traders. For extra enticement, there are low commissions, sometimes less than $10 a trade.
What many investors may not realize is that their trades -- particularly in the sizzling Internet stocks with which on-line traders are infatuated -- are not finding their way to the market through traditional channels. 
 Instead, much of that trading is being piped through new types of electronic networks -- systems that, in theory, are ideal marketplaces, where buyers and sellers can trade stocks without paying a markup to the professional traders who have long served as middlemen in the Nasdaq market.
The new trading systems, called electronic communications networks, or E.C.N.'s, are pitched as a way for investors to gain instant access to the markets and to compete head to head with professional traders.
Yet for all their promise, the E.C.N.'s have distinct downsides. They and the investors who use them -- including the growing numbers of rapid-fire day traders -- are contributing to the wild ricocheting of prices in Internet stocks.
Moreover, although commissions to trade on line are indeed rock bottom, there are hidden costs in using the networks. Prices on these networks are inferior on 8 out of 10 stocks they trade, according to the National Association of Securities Dealers. In large part, that is because investors are trading only with other investors who are using the same network, rather than "meeting" all other investors in the broader Nasdaq marketplace.
Frustrations over poor prices or trades that were not executed at all have led some experienced investors to wonder whether something is amiss between the time orders are placed and the time they show up on an E.C.N.
"The upside is that investors are getting that meeting possibility," said Richard G. Ketchum, president of the N.A.S.D. "The downside is that they are not getting any execution guarantee."
The networks now account for about 20 percent of trading in Nasdaq stocks -- more than the volume on the American Stock Exchange and all the nation's regional stock exchanges combined. But even investors who are not using the networks have reason to be concerned, as volatility jumps and total trading costs increase.
"We're in a period of disequilibrium right now," said Bruce Weber, assistant professor of information systems at New York University's Stern School of Business. "Anybody that's trading a Nasdaq stock these days has to work harder to find the best price and ideal counterparties than they did maybe three or four years ago."
With the Nasdaq composite index up 10 percent so far this year, the problems have been largely papered over by investor profits. Not until a full-fledged market dive will investors find out whether the fragmented marketplace created by the rise of the E.C.N.'s will make it harder to sell -- or harder to sell at a good price. Such difficulties could make jittery investors panic, turning a trickle of selling into a flood and pulling down more established stocks, too.
Regulators opened the door wide to the new networks after they found in the mid-1990's that traders in Nasdaq stocks were profiting from artificially wide spreads -- the difference between the price at which traders buy shares from sellers and the price at which they will resell them to buyers. In the most important change, regulators forced Nasdaq traders to display customers' orders that fell at prices within the spread. They also encouraged the creation of new networks that would allow investors to meet. Rather than taking a markup on trades, the networks profit by charging a small fee for each transaction.
Most of the electronic networks operate today for institutional investors. The oldest is Instinet, a unit of Reuters Group P.L.C. But two fast-growing services cater to individual investors: Island, a two-year-old network owned by Datek Holdings, a discount brokerage firm in Iselin, N.J., and Archipelago, a Chicago company whose owners include Goldman, Sachs and E*Trade Group. The 200,000 customers of Datek Online have trades funneled to Island.
"E.C.N.'s are one of the most dramatic forces reshaping the equity markets," said David Cushing, director of research at ITG Inc., a research and trading company that runs a trade-matching service for institutional investors called ITG Posit. "I think E.C.N.'s have a very valuable role in improving the efficiency of the market. The downside is, many of the benefits of E.C.N.'s have been co-opted by the professional day trader. Some of the ways they are being used right now are not in the market's best interest."
 
Wide and Wild Swings
E.C.N.'s play a significant role in the increasing volatility in many Nasdaq stocks. A growing number of day traders, who buy and sell furiously all day long, hoping to capture tiny per-share profits on large trades, execute their orders on the networks. Their lemming-like behavior in stocks that are already moving has made 15-point single-day swings common.
Even the occasional trader who uses an E.C.N. can add to volatility. If a customer offers to buy shares at a price well above the market -- something that happens increasingly, with so many on-line traders eager to buy hot stocks at any price -- the offer is flashed on other investors' screens, helping push the market higher. At a brokerage firm, that order would probably be executed at the lower price.
The day traders and the price-is-no-object investors are creating wild price swings in Internet stocks, which trade widely on E.C.N.'s. According to ITG, daily swings in an index of Internet stocks have been running at more than twice the rate of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Such volatility increases investors' anxieties and raises their costs by making it more difficult to get in and out of positions.
"People take pride in the fact that spreads in stocks have narrowed, but intraday price changes are bigger than they've ever been," said Andrew M. Brooks, vice president in charge of equity trading at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore. "I don't think we've ever had an environment like that."
 
More Fragments, Fewer Matches
The biggest problem posed by E.C.N.'s is the fragmentation of the market for Nasdaq stocks. The Nasdaq has always been fragmented because it has no central trading floor. The E.C.N.'s split up the market even more. When fewer trades are posted in one place, it is less likely that orders to buy and sell at the same price will find each other.
Robert Colby, deputy director of the Securities and Exchange Commission's division of market regulation, said that although the changes after the Nasdaq investigation have helped investors, "it's still a dispersed market."
"If the volume is going on in one place, and you are at another, you won't get executed," he said.
An investor can also wind up with an inferior price. Say a stock is quoted on E.C.N. "A" at $10.25 (the "bid" price) and at $10.3825 (the "offered" price), while E.C.N. "B" has prices of $10.25 bid, $10.3125 offered. An investor interested in buying the shares at the prevailing price would pay more to trade on "A."
Or say an investor has placed a limit order -- an order to buy stock at a set price -- on an E.C.N. If there is no seller willing to take the other side of the trade at that price, his order remains unfilled.
After it becomes evident that the trade cannot be matched at the E.C.N., the investor, if he understands how Nasdaq trading works, can cancel his order and route it to another system, or to a big market maker like Merrill Lynch or Knight Securities.
Even then, this time lapse -- maybe just a few seconds -- can be costly. The price the investor wanted to pay may be vastly different from the new one. If the market price is much higher, the order is not executed. If the market price has fallen significantly, the order is executed -- but the investor pays more for the stock.
If E.C.N.'s were all linked into a central order book, that problem would disappear. The N.A.S.D. wants to knit the marketplace together but has encountered resistance from some members. Until it does, the greater the volume on an E.C.N., the more likely that a customer's order will be matched quickly. For that reason, clients of Island, which traded 813 million shares for customers in January, are more apt to get their trades matched in-house than are customers of Archipelago, whose volume for the month was 90.5 million shares.
But even on a populous E.C.N. like Island, it is unlikely that an investor will get the best price for his trade. According to a study last year by the N.A.S.D., in 81 percent of all Nasdaq stocks actively quoted, traditional market makers had better prices than any E.C.N. In only 11 percent of the stocks did E.C.N.'s have superior prices. In the remainder, both E.C.N.'s and traditional market makers offered the best prices.
 
The Cost Catches
When it comes to costs, most investors focus only on their brokerage commissions. But explicit costs like commissions make up only 10 percent of an investor's total costs, according to Salomon Smith Barney. Implicit costs -- such as what an investor pays for a volatile stock or when trades are badly executed -- make up the rest.
Eugene Noser of the Abel/Noser Corporation in New York, who tracks trading costs, says that implicit factors -- including those driven by the rise of E.C.N.'s -- are very high for popular Internet stocks.
"If you take the trading costs of a Yahoo or Ebay or Excite, they are astronomical," he said. "It is very difficult and expensive to try to execute orders in these stocks." According to Abel/Noser, while the average cost of trading New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq stocks is about 0.16 percent of the transaction amount, the average cost to trade Ebay in the last six months of 1998 was roughly 0.4 percent; for Yahoo, it was 0.22 percent.
E.C.N.'s, unlike market makers, charge other dealers to execute on their networks, increasing costs.
And these stocks may be costly to trade because the size of the typical trade is small: 1,000 shares or less. When smaller orders dominate trading, it is more likely that a single order will move the price of the stock, increasing investors' costs.
In February, more than three out of four trades in both Amazon.com and Yahoo were for 1,000 shares or less. Almost 80 percent of Ebay's trades fell into this category. Dell, which has been trading far longer than these young Internet enterprises, had 67 percent of its trades move in small orders last year, up from 31 percent in 1994.
 
Expense and Execution
 There may be other reasons it is so costly to trade these stocks on line.
A few experienced traders who say they have received bad executions on stock trades at both Datek Online and Terra Nova Trading, the brokerage firm affiliated with Archipelago, are wondering whether people who work for these firms have been jumping in to take better prices for themselves.
Gerald D. Putnam, owner of Terra Nova and part-owner of Archipelago, says none of his employees trade against customers' orders. The practice, which is against securities regulations, was rampant on the Nasdaq stock market before the S.E.C.'s crackdown in 1996.
Matt Andresen, president of Island ECN, did not respond to a reporter's questions.
The potential for such improper trading at E.C.N.'s affiliated with a brokerage firm -- like both Island and Archipelago -- remains a concern of regulators. In a statement last fall, the S.E.C. instructed E.C.N.'s and their affiliates to set up procedures to prevent employees from using confidential information in trading.
The temptation to trade ahead of a customer is greatest when investors place market orders, meaning that they will buy or sell at the prevailing price.
A brokerage employee who receives a market order for 1,000 shares of Yahoo is supposed to complete the trade at the market price within 30 seconds. But given the rapid price changes in these stocks, the trader could easily complete the customer's trade at a price fractionally higher than the market and take the lower price for himself.
As long as the investor's price is in the range, the brokerage firm can argue that it gave its customer the "market" at the time. Only a study of each transaction, second by second, would reveal the truth.
Furthermore, the N.A.S.D. has stated that during fast or exceedingly volatile markets, traders can be excused from this 30-second rule, giving them even more flexibility.
 
Troubled by Some Trades
Among the experienced investors to raise questions about the quality of executions on some E.C.N.'s is Greg F. Mazzeo, who traded over-the-counter stocks professionally for 15 years and now trades for himself. In documents he has compiled meticulously, Mr. Mazzeo points to numerous examples of market orders that he placed with Datek Online and Island ECN that were not executed for minutes at a time, or were executed at prices that to him were suspiciously off the prevailing market levels.
"I'm not accusing them of front-running orders or holding orders for their own benefit," he said. "But the time it takes to execute and the price of execution on market orders at times are highly suspect."
Over the seven months that he was trading through Datek, until March, Mr. Mazzeo made numerous complaints to the firm. Datek's policy is to rescind commission charges if a customer's "marketable" order is not executed within 90 seconds. Mr. Mazzeo said he paid no commission on roughly a third of his orders.
Using sophisticated software, Mr. Mazzeo can watch all the action in a stock. And what he saw on one trade early this year troubled him. On Jan. 15, Mr. Mazzeo put in an order to sell 500 shares of Network Event Theatre, a small Nasdaq stock that rarely trades. The bid price on the stock was $13.8125 when he placed his market order on Datek Online. For minutes, no offers to buy were posted on the network. Then a 500-share lot traded, and the bid price began to fall. Still, Mr. Mazzeo's shares were not sold until the bid fell to $13.4375.
A computer glitch? An old order suddenly processed? Perhaps, but with Mr. Mazzeo's market order in hand, the firm's traders could have sold 500 shares that they did not yet own at $13.8125. Such a "short" sale in a thinly traded stock could easily have lowered the bid price to $13.4375, at which time a trader could have bought Mr. Mazzeo's 500 shares and covered his short position at a profit of $187.50.
Datek did not respond to written questions about these trades.
 
Fair-Weather Friends?
While E.C.N.'s have contributed to rising stock prices, no one knows for sure what their role will be in a market crash.
Unlike the Nasdaq market makers they hope to replace, E.C.N.'s do not commit any capital to maintain orderly markets in the stocks they trade. While most large, reputable market makers stand ready to buy or sell 1,000 shares of the stocks they trade -- they are required to handle 100-share trades -- E.C.N.'s do not.
Moreover, according to Nasdaq, the average block of stock available at the best bid or offer on an electronic network last year was only 340 shares. So an investor with more than 340 shares to sell or buy may well have his offer only partly filled. By comparison, the average block available from a market maker was 1,741 shares.
What does all this mean? If the on-line traders' favorite stocks start to fall from the sky, the people who trade on E.C.N.'s may not be able to get out.
"You get to a point of uncertainty and no one is going to sit out there and say they are a buyer during a market break," said Mr. Ketchum of the N.A.S.D. "If markets drop, E.C.N.'s have a harder time providing liquidity."
In other words, for E.C.N.'s, the resulting stampede for the exits could make the 1987 crash look like a day at the beach.
 
Minding Your Trading P's and Q's
 AS more investors flock to trade stocks on line, the frustrations are likely to increase. While commissions are lower than ever, poor executions of trades can make on-line investing expensive indeed.
Here are some do's and don'ts for on-line trade:
Under only one circumstance should you place a market order for a Nasdaq stock on line -- when you absolutely must get out.
In wildly fluctuating Nasdaq stocks, such orders to buy or sell the stock in question regardless of price are a good way to overpay for a stock or receive too little when selling. Indeed, Kenneth D. Pasternak, president of Knight/Trimark Group, parent of Knight Securities, one of the nation's largest market-making firms, wants to outlaw market orders. He thinks that too many investors buy stocks with no regard to price.
Instead, investors should use limit orders, which specify a certain price to buy or sell shares.
But what price? Market insiders say that you are unlikely to have either buy or sell orders filled at the price on your trading screen at any moment; the market simply moves too fast.
Gene L. Finn, former economist at both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, advises traders to place limit orders at prices that are between the currently quoted bid and the offered prices. That enhances the odds that your order will be filled.
If you think that you did not get the best price on a trade, ask your broker for a record of trades that were executed at the time you placed your order. This is called a "time and sales," and it should reveal whether other orders were given priority over yours. Or it could show that your trade was far afield of prices at the time you placed it.
Some brokers may not be willing to provide this information or walk an investor through it. The NASD Regulation's Web site, www.nasdr.com, has a complaint form you can fill out.
Or you may want to pay for help.
Greg F. Mazzeo, a former professional trader, has set up the Electronic Traders Assistance Association, a for-profit organization that will research five disputed trades for $200. The association's Web site is www.etaa.com. GRETCHEN MORGENSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New Ways to Trade"
With the increase in on-line investing, a growing share of trades by small investors in Nasdaq stocks is being placed through systems called electronic communications networks. Those systems eliminate the middlemen -- the market makers that have traditionally traded these stocks -- but investors who use the systems do not always get the best prices on their trades. Here is how Nasdaq trading works for small investors.
 
AVERAGE INVESTORS -- Using personal computers, individual investors place orders to buy or sell stock through their on-line brokerage firms. Today, one in four retail trades is placed on line.
 
MARKET MAKERS -- These firms -- big brokerage firms and trading houses and many smaller companies, too -- have traditionally executed investors' trades in Nasdaq stocks. Firms that do not have their own trading floors send their customers' orders to brokerage firms that do and receive payment for those orders; that can mean trades are executed not where a customer would get the best price but with the market maker who has paid to execute the trade.
Market makers profit from the difference between what they pay to buy a stock and what they charge to sell it, called the "spread." They commit their own capital to keep stocks trading as smoothly as possible.
 
DAY TRADERS -- From home, or at hundreds of offices around the country, investors known as day traders place rapid-fire orders, hoping to profit from small price changes in fast-moving stocks. As these investors pile in and out of stocks, they can increase volatility in share prices.
 
ON-LINE BROKERAGE FIRMS -- Because Nasdaq stocks are not handled on a central trading floor, brokerage firms must choose where to send investors' incoming orders for execution -- the process of matching buy and sell orders.
 
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS -- A handful of upstart systems, on which many day traders' orders are executed, can reduce trading costs. Rather than profiting from spreads, these E.C.N.'s collect a fee for matching customers' buy and sell orders at the same price.
 But the networks have drawbacks. Because the various trading systems are not linked, they fragment the market, making it more likely that investors' orders will not be executed. And when they are, the trades may not be at the best price; the networks offered the best prices on only 20 percent of Nasdaq stocks, with market makers having better prices on the rest. GRETCHEN MORGENSON
(Illustrations by Mary Ann Smith)(pg. 9)
 
Graphs: "Internet Stocks Trade Mostly in Small Lots..."
Percentage of volume traded in lots of 1,000 shares or less.
 
Internet stocks
Ebay -- 79.9
Yahoo -- 76.2
Amazon.com -- 76.0
 
Other technology stocks
Intel -- 54.0
Microsoft -- 50.1
 
"...Often on Electronic Trading Networks..."
Percentage of volume traded through electronic communications networks (E.C.N.'s).
 
Internet stocks
Amazon.com -- 29.5
Yahoo -- 23.4
Ebay -- 18.8
 
Other technology stocks
Intel -- 16.3
Microsoft -- 14.9
 
"...Contributing to Wild Price Swings..."
Annualized daily price return volatility of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Interactive Week Internet index through March 23.
 
"...And High Trading Costs for Investors"
Average trading costs for the third and fourth quarters of 1998, including commissions and implicit costs.
 
Internet stocks as a percentage of transaction
Ebay -- 0.40 %
Yahoo -- 0.22 %
Amazon.com -- 0.19 %
 
Other technology stocks
Intel -- 0.06 %
Microsoft -- 0.05 %
 
(Sources: Abel/Noser Corp.; ITG Inc.; Nasdaq)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET STOCK INDEXES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS (73%); ONLINE TRADING (73%); BONDS (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



577 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word / Designer Babble;
In Architecture, Mortar Isn't The Stuff You Lay On Really Thick

BYLINE: By TOM KUNTZ 

 BODY:
YOU know about the Tower of Babel, the ambitious architectural project that the Lord foiled in Genesis by rendering its overreaching builders unable to communicate with one another. Now consider its modern heir: the babble about towers spouted by architects.
Stephen A. Kliment, former editor of Architectural Record, says a lot of the time even he can't figure out what the heck today's architects and other high-concept designers are talking about. In his book "Writing for Design Professionals" (W. W. Norton, 1998), he pleads for clarity in proposals, letters, brochures and professional articles. 
 Sure, every profession has its useful private shorthand, he says, and architecture is no exception. But when you start talking about decontextualizing your intrinsic modularity -- designer-babble terms that Mr. Kliment says he has encountered -- you know your profession's in trouble linguistically.
Below are some longer passages collected by Mr. Kliment for this article. TOM KUNTZ
From "Culture, Merchandise, or Just Light Entertainment? New Architecture at the Millennium" by Bruce Thomas of Lehigh University, in the May 1997 issue of the Journal of Architectural Education:
Now, as the "simulacrum" continues to gain currency in architectural theory and as the map of culture is being recharted into cyberspace, tinkering with the architectural design process is more than merely a matter of exchanging juxtaposition for synthesis. Humanism may, as Eisenman and others so glibly contend, already be gone, but its replacement is at best a highly speculative alternative. As the raw power of media plays an ever larger role in shaping the intellectual basis for much of the emerging millennium's culture, we run the risk of building a new architecture not on substantial foundations, but according to a debasement of humanist ideals, what might be described as "tabloid humanism."
Crystal clear enough for you? Then try "Beyond the Valley of Silicon Architecture" in the current Harvard Design Magazine, by Mitchell Schwarzer, professor of architectural history at the California College of Arts and Crafts in San Francisco:
My aim here is to inquire into architecture's participation in the construction of the information age in Silicon Valley. I intend to situate the architecture of Santa Clara and San Mateo counties within a theory of capitalist realism and analyses of the pragmatic economics propelling development of the high technology office campus. How does architecture operate free from history's burdens and ideology's veils, yet beholden to utilitarian programs and outrageous profit margins? What role does architecture have within an information revolution where the notion of representation is being radically redefined and dematerialized?
 The author's just warming up, continuing a few paragraphs later:
In other words, if experimental architecture is not possible on high technology campuses for all the reasons discussed above, couldn't architecture be split between calculated program and incidental program, between functional, profitable office zones and other enclosures, extensions, excavations, and escarpments that respond to the landscape? Instead of architecture representing the information age, or popular culture as Venturi would have it, couldn't architecture be more of a flickering between utilitarian practices and ludic transgression? This second architecture, directed toward the resonances of landscape and not the symbolism of a particular company, would appeal to most firms needing space in the Valley, and might go a long way toward overcoming the real-estate conundrum of exit strategies.
Asia too has its conundrums, real estate and otherwise. And architecturally it's not having much fun either, as Cherie Wendelken suggested last year in Thresholds 17, a journal published by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's School of Architecture:
In recent years a new identity has emerged for Asia in contemporary architectural discourse. In the writing of Rem Koolhaas and others, Asia as an idea has become ephemerality, megaform, placelessness, globalization. These notions displace -- even invert -- earlier European and American constructs of Asia as a timeless or ancient non-modern realm against which to measure the modern. Yet strangely, the new idea of Asia constructs an embodiment of the postmodern -- a place of another extreme where history is willfully abandoned, visual meaning is casually discursive, and all built form is tentative. The city of Tokyo becomes a discourse about ephemerality. The rebuilding of Singapore becomes an emblem of cultural tabula rasa and bigness.
It's enough to make you fear for the future of the profession. And maybe you should. In the November 1997 Journal of Architectural Education, Kelly Carlson-Redding of the University of North Carolina employs the architect lingo of today to write of the challenges facing the architects of tomorrow:
Architecture students today face a variety of complex and often contradictory models of materiality in architecture. Ideas about "honest" materials and rational tectonics are still touted by modernist and neo-modernist educators and practitioners, while many urban and suburban environments are inundated with both well-constructed and shamefully constructed postmodern buildings -- thin-skinned compositions in which pattern making overrides materiality and extravagance is often substituted for interest. . . . Resurgent interests in expressive tectonics have led to fetishistic fixations on exaggerated elements of structure, construction and building systems. . . .
As educators we are fortunate to work with architecture students in a time so rich in variety and possibility, but amid this wealth of divergent propositions it is imperative that we help students order their own theoretical and instrumental position with regard to questions of materiality.
 But perhaps the most telling observation about architect blather is the one made by a juror recently at a design competition:
Thick reports are required to justify fee!
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: What we have here is a failure to communicate: Breugel the Elder's "Tower of Babel." (KHM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CRYSTAL CLEAR TECHNOLOGY (53%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (55%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (55%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (91%); WRITERS (77%); HISTORY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); 

PERSON: KUNTZ, TOM; KLIMENT, STEPHEN A STEPHEN A KLIMENT (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



578 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: The World: Fog of War -- Coping With the Truth About Friend and Foe;
Victims Not Quite Innocent

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON'S argument, enticing in its simplicity, packages the bombing of Yugoslavia's armed forces as a humanitarian mission: It is meant, he says, to halt a murderous campaign against innocent ethnic Albanians who make up 90 percent of the 2 million people living in the Serbian province of Kosovo.
But in trying to bring the Serbs to heel, NATO has unwittingly married itself to a new partner. It is the Kosovo Liberation Army, an armed group whose goals include not only independence, but the expulsion of Serbs from the province. A little more than a year ago it was dismissed by a senior American diplomat, Robert Gelbard, as a "terrorist group" and its insistence on armed resistance has deepened the crisis and propelled Kosovo into warfare. 
 In the catalogue of horrors that have befallen Yugoslavia, the Kosovo Liberation Army is one of the lesser plagues. The danger to stability presented by President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia is far greater than anything within its power.
But the fact that this group has emerged to speak for Kosovo's Albanians, and the bombing by NATO of Serbian targets on their behalf, reveal a great deal about the moral ambiguities confronting outsiders who wade into the Balkans to halt the killing and ethnic cleansing begun a decade ago by Mr. Milosevic.
The K.L.A. began on the radical fringe of Kosovar Albanian politics, originally made up of diehard Marxist-Leninists (who were bankrolled in the old days by the Stalinist dictatorship next door in Albania) as well as by descendants of the fascist militias raised by the Italians in World War II. It has no ideology beyond a drive to liberate Kosovo from Serb rule, but its leaders have long championed the Quixotic goal of a "Greater Albania" reaching into Albania, Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro.
Though its atrocities pale next to the rampages of the Serbs, it has shown little tolerance for its ethnic rivals, carrying out random kidnappings and executions and burning Serb villages.
Mr. Milosevic embarked on his nationalist drive, stoking hatreds between Serbs and other ethnic groups in the former Yugoslavia, in Kosovo in 1987. Yet it took a decade, with the Serbs running Kosovo like a colonial outpost, before Kosovar Albanians turned to violence. Even after Mr. Milosevic revoked the province's autonomy in 1989, a moderate leadership under a self-styled president, Ibrahim Rugova, maintained a fragile peace. It did so by pretending to exercise autonomy, delivering some services and forbidding street protests, while the Serbian Government pretended to have full control.
The Kosovo Liberation Army, whose very existence was in dispute among American diplomats until the uprising last year, consisted of a few ragtag bands that walked around remote villages in motley uniforms and shot the odd police officer. Then, a year ago, Mr. Milosevic set out to eradicate the armed bands, and his security forces surrounded Prekaz, a town where Adam and Hamza Jashari, founding members of the K.L.A., were holed up with dozens of armed supporters.
Double-barrelled 20-millimeter anti-aircraft guns and .50-caliber machine guns pounded the stucco and brick homes for three days. More than 50 people were killed, nearly half of them women and children.
The authorities in Belgrade naively assumed they had wiped out the resistance group. In fact, the raid triggered a province-wide rebellion. Suddenly, it seemed, everyone in Kosovo was a charter member of the K.L.A. Most of Mr. Rugova's local officials, tired of international indifference to Serb repression and abuse, became village commanders. His party disintegrated.
COMMANDERS seemed to sprout like mushrooms and nominal leaders had no control over forces acting in the name of the guerrilla group in the next village. The chaos was aggravated by a flood of weapons that poured over the border from northern Albania, where armories had been looted after an economic meltdown in 1997.
Volunteers from among the 600,000 ethnic Albanians who send home remittances from abroad left their menial jobs as dishwashers and construction workers in Germany and Switzerland and flocked to northern Albania. They were handed uniforms and weapons and sent over the mountains to join the fight.
There are now an estimated 30,000 automatic weapons in the hands of the force of several thousand fighters, plus anti-tank weapons and light mortars. But while some special fighting units have been set up, there remains no central command. The Kosovo Liberation Army is a state of mind, not a tight organization.
In fact, this is not simply a rebellion by Albanians against Serbs, but by a new generation of Kosovar Albanians against the intellectuals and urban elite in Pristina. Kosovo has the highest birth rate in Europe, and 70 percent of the population is under 30. Couple this with the 70 percent unemployment rate and the result is a vast pool of disenchanted youth from which the guerrilla army can recruit. These fighters, by and large, differ from their elders in that they do not speak Serbo-Croatian, have no loyalties to the Serbian state and have contact with Serbs only at checkpoints or jails.
Last winter, when international negotiators sought a peace agreement between Mr. Milosevic's Government and the Kosovar Albanians, they turned to the Kosovo Liberation ARmy, hoping to blunt its drive for independence. Eventually it signed on to the terms, which include a three-year period for Kosovo to be a NATO protectorate. But it has not given up its central goal of eventual independence -- a goal the Clinton Administration has steadfastly said it does not agree with. And while the group accepted a phased plan to disarm once NATO forces can be deployed to safeguard a truce, it is unlikely that, after three years of preparing for war, many weapons would be turned over.
One reason the international community had to turn to the Kosovo Liberation Army was that by the time the world woke up to the conflict in Kosovo, there was no political center left. So American officials have been left trying to portray the Albanians as innocents, when in fact their leaders are nationalists who have retreated very little from positions once described as extreme. In the long history of Balkan nationalist movements, pressure has sometimes nudged such militants from more extreme tactics, but it has rarely if ever extinguished their goals of building nationalist states.
So, as happened in Croatia and Bosnia before, the West now has no choice but to make common cause with one such nationalist group to oppose another nationalist group, Mr. Milosevic's Government, that is clearly more destructive.
President Clinton has argued that at least the Kosovo Liberation Army has put its signature on the draft truce accords, something Mr. Milosevic has refused to do, and that this merits protecting the Albanian side. He has also argued that it is Mr. Milosevic whose strategy ignited and has fed the wars of hatred that have consumed the Balkans now for nearly 10 years, producing slaughter that the world cannot tolerate.
Those are all powerful arguments. Still, they leave unanswered the question of how tricky it may be to work with the Kosovo Liberation Army to build peace after the bombing stops. In fact, the situation recalls another maneuver by Washington four years ago, the last time it decided to bring Mr. Milosevic to heel.
Then the fighting was in Bosnia with Serb forces shelling cities like Sarajevo and executing some 7,000 Muslims in the fields around Srebrenica. Before Mr. Milosevic agreed to negotiate, the West did two things: It bombed the Bosnian Serb forces for 20 days, crippling its military machine, and it applauded as President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, a rabid nationalist whose fondness for ethnic cleansing is outdone only by Mr. Milosevic's, launched a pitiless military campaign that drove some 200,000 Serbs out of Croatia and, in coalition with Muslim forces, tens of thousands more out of central Bosnia.
TODAY, some of Mr. Tudjman's generals stand accused of war crimes in these campaigns. But at the time, the West looked the other way because the battlefield victories forced Mr. Milosevic to sue for peace.
Today in Kosovo, the West is gambling that by allying with the Kosovo Liberation Army and bombing Mr. Milosevic's forces it will avert, or at least limit, a slaughter of Kosovo's Albanian civilians.
How to deal with the Kosovo Liberation Army after all this is over remains unanswered. But if past forays into the Balkans are any guide the United States could find itself struggling to contain new nationalist groups who have no more interest in achieving reconciliation than the butchers who proceeded them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A masked villager on patrol gives the Serbian victory sign in Kosovo. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); ALBANIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

COMPANY: KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (92%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (92%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); ALBANIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



579 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: The Superpower That Couldn't Say No

BYLINE: By Fareed Zakaria; Fareed Zakaria is a managing editor of Foreign Affairs and the author of "From Wealth to Power: The Unusual Origins of America's World Role."

 BODY:
A hundred years ago the leading superpower of the day, Great Britain, sent troops into the Sudan. Its statesmen explained their decision thus: Britain's global position rested on its empire in India. Access to India required a secure Suez Canal, which required that Egypt be safeguarded, which required that the upper Nile valley be controlled. So the Sudan was vital, you see.
Such was the convoluted logic of the Pax Britannica. Last week, the world got a look at the strategic spiral of the new Pax Americana. 
 NATO's intervention in Kosovo is the logical next step -- and there will be more -- of a foreign policy in which one peripheral commitment creates another. America, already the guarantor of peace in Bosnia, will now find itself deeply involved in the future of the south Balkans, with its feuding states and ethnically mixed populations.
As a consequence of its bombing campaign, NATO has had to extend security assurances to a jittery Albania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Slovenia and Romania. Meanwhile, our relations with the major powers deteriorate, the global financial system remains unsettled, and genuine threats in the Middle East and Northeast Asia are placed on hold. "We can only do one crisis at a time," a White House official told me last week. Someone had better keep that from Saddam Hussein.
President Clinton put out a volley of explanations for the attack, hoping that if one does not convince, another will. First he claimed that American security and prosperity require keeping our major trading partners in Europe safe.
But for much of the last decade a bloody war has raged in the Balkans, while Western Europe has thrived. We have been constantly warned that instability in the former Yugoslavia would spill over, yet it has not. Indeed, the tragedy of Bosnia was that none of Europe's major powers cared much what happened there.
If the Balkan conflict does spread this time it will be because NATO interfered -- thus creating the problem the alliance is supposedly trying to solve. Over the last century the region's wars have expanded only when major powers have got involved -- most disastrously in 1914.
The most honest supporters of intervention admit that to be successful, bombing must be merely the beginning of a much bigger and wider campaign involving other countries in the region. Some advocate using Albania as a staging ground for NATO ground troops. Others recommend creating a 60,000-strong force in Macedonia. If all this seems farfetched, consider that if the Serbs continue their campaign in Kosovo, the United States will be faced with two options -- appeasement or escalation. (It was this grim dilemma that pushed a reluctant Washington deeper and deeper into Vietnam.)
On the other hand, if Serbia does back down, NATO will have created a new state in the Balkans. Kosovo's relations with its neighbors -- including Macedonia, which has a mix of Albanians and Serbs, and Albania itself -- will be tense. As the main sponsor of the new nation, America will have to assume some responsibility for its security. Russian ties to the Serbs are bound to strengthen. (Having been assured for the last three years that NATO is a defensive alliance, Russia is predictably furious to find it waging a war in the south Balkans.) Greece and Turkey are always spoiling for a fight anyway.
President Clinton says he wants to avoid the kind of mistakes that led to World War II. But in drawing outside powers into the Balkans, he is forming tangled alliances reminiscent of World War I. And one hopes Mr. Clinton understands that Slobodan Milosevic -- who rules a moth-eaten, impoverished country that has not attacked its neighbors -- is no Adolf Hitler. He is not even Saddam Hussein.
The President's humanitarian case for NATO's action is more compelling. Serb atrocities in Kosovo are real and gruesome. The United States is powerful enough that when it can do good it should -- if the costs and risks seem reasonable. But in this case, NATO is entering a complex political situation without a clear objective or exit. In attacking a country for denying a province independence, it is inviting claims from a long list of victims -- including Kurds, Tibetans, Kashmiris and Chechens, among others.
Mr. Clinton and his supporters wrongly framed the Kosovo debate as one between intervention and isolation. The real question is, what kinds of intervention should America engage in?
The Clinton Administration has tried nation-building in Somalia, democratization in Haiti and reintegration in Bosnia. Every one of these experiments has failed. Every one of these peripheral interventions was also unplanned, a reaction to a crisis. Surely the test of a world power is not only when it can say yes, but also when it can say no.
Meanwhile Washington's relations with the major powers range from bad to worse. Nuclear arms reduction with Russia is in a deep freeze; relations with Japan are barely civil; the roller-coaster ride with China is on a sharp downswing. Thanks to European defections, the containment of both Iran and Iraq is wearing thin. After announcing last fall that the global economy was facing "its worst crisis in 50 years," Mr. Clinton dropped the issue rather than tussle with the G-7. But thank goodness we're bombing Belgrade!
Washington can pursue a careless foreign policy because it has power to waste. The United States towers over the world like no country ever has.
This gives America a unique window of opportunity. It could strengthen the basic foundations of global peace, expanding the open world economy and liberal order that the industrial states enjoy. Or it could keep up its efforts to put a lid on ethnic, religious and nationalist conflicts whenever they break out. This will be an unending task, since the world is not going to stop changing, and new groups will always make new claims to power.
Britain spent decades -- and endless blood and treasure -- stabilizing dozens of places like the Sudan. Once it left, the violence always began anew.
Great global power -- no matter how benevolent -- always arouses envy and resentment. (John Dryden wrote in the 17th century, "When the chosen people grew too strong / The rightful cause at length became the wrong.")
Washington should make sure that when it provokes international ire and opposition, it is doing so for good reasons. The tragedy of American diplomacy today is that it is incurring the costs of hegemony without getting the benefits.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SUDAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); EGYPT (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); BULGARIA (52%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NILE VALLEY AVIATION (58%); AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (54%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SUDAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); EGYPT (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); BULGARIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); 

PERSON: ZAKARIA, FAREED BILL CLINTON (76%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



580 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Is It Time for Ron Perelman to Sell Off Revlon?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Sometimes a company gets attention it would just as soon pass up. Last week Revlon Inc., the cosmetics company controlled by Ronald Perelman, got a double dose. Rumors of an impending takeover put the company at the top of the business section just as the generosity of its president, George Fellows, put it on the front page.
Mr. Fellows provided transportation so that Howard Safir, the New York City Police Commissioner, could attend the Academy Awards. Company spokesmen firmly denied any impropriety in the police furor, but Mr. Perelman, who has controlled Revlon since 1985, was silent on the takeover rumors that sent the company's stock soaring. 
 If he does sell Revlon, Mr. Perelman would make a good profit, but the gain would be nowhere near as great as it would have been had Revlon been sold a year ago, before its stock fell sharply amid excess inventories and talk that the company needed new products.
Both pieces of publicity had unpleasant sides for Mr. Perelman, who declined to be interviewed. The Safir trip reminded people of the tycoon's willingness to do favors for the powerful, as in the offer of a job to Monica Lewinsky before she became famous. And the Revlon rumors focused attention on the problems of Revlon and other companies in Mr. Perelman's corporate stable.
Those problems have been growing for a couple of years. They have not led to Mr. Perelman's eviction from the billionaires' club, but they have damaged the wealth of those who invested in his companies, and they have raised the issue of whether his reputation for brilliance may have been overdone.
Revlon seemed to be on a run a few years ago, with its Colorstay makeup being touted as age-defying and growing Asian sales. But then competitors brought out their own new products, Asian markets trembled and Revlon announced layoffs. Suddenly, investors started focusing on the $1.7 billion in long-term debt on the company's books and the stock price fell as low as $12, half the price at the company's 1986 initial public offering. Now it is back above $22, thanks to the rumors.
In one way, Revlon's performance is typical. Each of the four companies that Mr. Perelman has taken public in the 1990's has been a loser for investors who bought at the offering and held on. An investment of $4,000, spread evenly among the four, would now be worth about $2,600. That is not good during a bull market.
That calculation seems unfair to Howard Gittis, Mr. Perelman's top aide. "If you buy when he does, and come out when he does, you do fine," he says. That is true, and is shown by the performance of such companies as New World Communications, the broadcaster that was sold to Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation in 1997. Investors who bought the stock at the same time as Mr. Perelman did very well. It is those who bought stock when Mr. Perelman's companies went public who have done poorly.
Why? In the case of the Coleman Company, the camping-equipment maker, Mr. Perelman got hoodwinked. He agreed to sell the company for more than $30 a share to Sunbeam, then run by Albert (Chainsaw Al) Dunlap. Unfortunately, most of the payment was to be in Sunbeam stock, which cratered amid questions about the company's accounting that led to Mr. Dunlap's ouster. Coleman shares are now worth less than they sold for in the 1991 offering. "It's hard to protect yourself against false financial statements," said Mr. Gittis.
At Consolidated Cigars, the biggest cigar company in the nation and the maker of such brands as El Producto and Muriel, Mr. Perelman rode the cigar boom up and then back down. In 1996, investors were sold stock at $23 a share, more than 14 times what Mr. Perelman had paid. A few months ago the entire company was sold to a French tobacco company, for $17.85 a share. Mr. Perelman made a big profit, while public investors lost money.
Then there was Marvel Entertainment, the comic book company that diversified into sports trading cards under Mr. Perelman's tutelage. Both businesses soared as adults became active collectors, but overleveraged Marvel went broke after the fads ended. An investor who bought stock when Marvel went public in 1991, and held on, now has some odd pieces of paper that give him or her the right to buy securities in the successor company to Marvel. A $1,000 investment is worth about $2.
There can be no takeover of Revlon without Mr. Perelman's approval. If he sells now, he will get plenty of money. But if he holds on, he has a chance to revive both the company's fortunes and his own reputation as a businessman and investor. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: REV (NYSE) (95%); NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REVLON INC REVLON INC (95%); NEWS CORP (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: REVLON INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TAKEOVERS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); COSMETICS (89%); TOILETRIES MFG (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (56%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; PERELMAN, RONALD RONALD PERELMAN (93%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



581 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Business Ventures

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
The Women's Enterprise Project, which helps female welfare recipients begin businesses of their own, recently received two grants: $57,000 from the Westchester Industrial Development Agency and $57,000 from the County Department of Social Services.
The project -- a public-private partnership that includes Westchester Community College, the Westchester Association of Women Business Owners, the Westchester County Association and the New York State Division for Women, Lower Hudson Advisory Council -- began in 1997 with a $10,000 state grant. 
 Since its inception, 28 women have graduated from the program and have started businesses. One woman in Yonkers, for example, operates a bill auditing business from her home and another runs a freelance graphic design business, also from her home.
Instructors from the County Department of Social Services taught the women management and marketing skills and helped them develop business plans. They were advised to choose businesses that could not only be operated from home but also did not require a big investment. Among the kinds of businesses encouraged are catering, child care and bookkeeping, Alvin Goode, director of one of the instructional programs, said.
At the end of a typical 15-week course, students present business plans to a panel of bankers, business people and financial advisers, who critique the plans and suggest changes.
The participants are also paired with mentors from the Westchester Association of Women Business Owners, and they meet regularly with financial planners. The participants are also eligible for low-interest loans through a $750,000 revolving fund, called the Westchester-Rockland Regional Revolving Loan Program. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BHD (58%); COUNTY DEPARTMENT (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNTY DEPARTMENT (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; WOMEN; SMALL BUSINESS COUNTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); WOMEN (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



582 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: U.N. to Create Own Satellite Program to Find Illegal Drug Crops

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

 BODY:
The United Nations program charged with reducing illicit drugs is creating its own satellite monitoring system to identify the cultivation of narcotics in the major source countries.
The United Nations International Drug Control Program received the go-ahead last week at the annual meeting in Vienna of the world body's Commission on Narcotic Drugs, getting unanimous approval from the 53 member countries, including the United States. 
 Acquiring a satellite capability is important for the program because a more accurate assessment of the illicit drugs being cultivated would provide a universally accepted benchmark against which countries' promises to reduce drug production could be measured. The targets were set at a special session of the General Assembly last June.
More intensive satellite surveillance would also expose the so-called balloon effect in which illicit crops reduced or eradicated in one region or country tend to shift to another.
Pino Arlacchi, the executive director of the drug control program, said that the European Space Agency will provide the satellites and technical expertise to monitor the drug crops for member countries, and the European Commission has agreed to pay some of the costs. He estimated that the satellite monitoring could cost as little as $15 million a year, and would start in about a year.
"For the first time the international community will have a very reliable instrument to measure the extent of illegal crops," Mr. Arlacchi said in a telephone interview from Vienna. The program will confirm its satellite findings with more detailed surveys on the ground and with aerial photographs by conventional aircraft, Mr. Arlacchi said.
He has set a goal of eliminating drug cultivation in 10 years through eradication and development programs inducing farmers to switch to less lucrative but legal crops.
Until now, the United States provided satellite information gathered by the Central Intelligence Agency, Mr. Arlacchi said. But the C.I.A.'s overflights did not focus specifically on coca and opium cultivation and the spy agency also did not share its remote sensing methodology to explain its findings.
The C.I.A.'s conclusions have opened it to charges of political bias from some drug-producing countries. For example, the Colombian Government said that it eradicated 123,500 acres of coca last year, mostly by aerial spraying. The C.I.A. reported that only 14,000 acres were eradicated, prompting protests from the Colombians, Mr. Arlacchi said.
When the Commission on Narcotic Drugs met last week, Colombia asked the counter-drug program to help provide governments with tools to monitor illicit drug-growing.
Because the United Nations is generally viewed as impartial, its satellite monitoring could end such controversies by creating a surveillance system with a uniform methodology accepted by member countries.
The United Nations counter-drug program has enjoyed better access to drug-growing regions than the United States and other countries trying to stop narcotics at their source. But coming up with an accurate count is difficult in regions that are remote or ravaged by warfare.
The satellite monitoring for the United Nations will concentrate on five countries that produce more than 90 percent of the raw ingredients used to manufacture heroin and cocaine. They are Myanmar and Afghanistan, the foremost sources of opium, and Colombia, Peru and Bolivia, which grow almost all of the coca leaf. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION SPACE AGENCY INC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMME (84%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (83%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMME (84%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (83%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SATELLITES; FINANCES ILLEGAL DRUGS (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); COCAINE (78%); ESPIONAGE (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); OPIUM (73%); 

PERSON: ARLACCHI, PINO; WREN, CHRISTOPHER S PINO ARLACCHI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



583 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: A Secretive Army Grows to Maintain Order in China

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 27

 BODY:
In late 1997, President Jiang Zemin announced that China would cut the People's Liberation Army, then three million strong, by half a million troops as part of China's drive for a leaner, more advanced military that could both defend the homeland and reinforce China's image as a power in Asia.
What the President did not say was that as the army shrank, another, more secretive branch of the military, dedicated to internal stability, was already expanding. At the very time of Mr. Jiang's speech, it was absorbing 14 army divisions, or more than 100,000 troops. 
 The expansion of the People's Armed Police, a national force trained in riot control, reflects the leaders' growing preoccupation with domestic unrest. It also reflects their wish to avoid having to resort to army combat troops to quell popular demonstrations, as occurred in 1989 around Tiananmen Square with disastrously bloody results.
Over the last year, according to witnesses and other accounts, armed police units were called out to help the ordinary police contain many of the hundreds of demonstrations and protests reported around China. The armed police have also battled ethnic separatists in the heavily Muslim province of Xinjiang, and have long been used to help control Tibet.
The protests bubbling up around China, almost always centered on economic complaints, have generally been small, and dispersed peacefully. But with urban unemployment soaring and farmers restive over high taxes and corruption, Mr. Jiang has proclaimed domestic stability as this year's No. 1 priority. And he apparently looks to the force he has built up -- now one million strong, Western analysts say -- to keep any unrest from getting out of hand.
"As a major force for maintaining state security and social stability, the People's Armed Police shoulders a massive and formidable burden," he said on a visit to an armed police barracks in Beijing last month.
Last year, two China experts from the American military stated the force's purpose even more baldly.
"By increasing the size of the People's Armed Police, the leadership in Beijing implicitly acknowledges that internal unrest is a greater threat to the regime's survival and Chinese economic modernization than is foreign invasion," said John F. Corbett Jr., an American officer, and Dennis J. Blasko, writing in China Strategic Review, a journal published in Washington. Mr. Corbett, who works in the Pentagon, and Mr. Blasko, now a consultant, both previously served as military attaches in Beijing.
Officers of the People's Armed Police, which was formed in the early 1980's from a combination of army and public security units, declined to be interviewed.
Like Western riot policemen, the People's Armed Police officers are supposed to control demonstrations with minimal violence -- preferably with intimidation, shields and sometimes tear gas, although they carry guns and have heavier weapons.
The expansion and upgrading of the force accelerated after 1989, when it may have numbered about 600,000. That year, the armed police's failure to disperse student demonstrators in Beijing forced the leaders to call in combat units, which killed hundreds of civilians and did lasting damage to China's image as well as to army morale.
Civilian police sometimes carry weapons too, but operate under command of the Public Security Ministry rather than the military, as most People's Armed Police units do.
The army has been only too happy to shed an unpopular mission for its regular forces. Freed from worry about crowd control, which requires entirely different skills and equipment, the People's Liberation Army "can concentrate on becoming a modern, externally oriented force," said David Shambaugh, a China expert at George Washington University and the Brookings Institution in Washington.
The expansion of the armed police may also give Mr. Jiang, who had no military experience, an important personal base of power, outside experts believe.
Deployments of the armed police to quell unrest are rarely announced, but there is evidence that they have been in action numerous times around China in the past year.
State news media often portray the armed police in more benign roles -- like working alongside regular soldiers to pile sandbags during last summer's record floods.
But in January, 9,000 armed police were sent to help existing forces ranged against a violent separatist movement in the western province of Xinjiang. In rural Hunan in January, hundreds of armed police officers dispersed a crowd of many thousands of angry farmers by lobbing tear gas grenades and charging with clubs, villagers said. One man was killed by an exploding gas grenade and dozens were injured.
Most demonstrations have ended peacefully. But Western analysts question whether the People's Armed Police would be up to its job in the event of large-scale unrest, particularly if the job of controlling it falls to the under-equipped, poorly trained units deployed in areas far from big cities like Beijing and Shanghai.
"The question now is whether the People's Armed Police is up to the task," said a Western analyst who has closely studied the armed police, and spoke on condition of anonymity. "Because of a limited budget and long-term quality and management problems, it's still debatable whether they can perform well in a major crisis."
In Beijing, armed police officers guard embassies and constantly patrol Tiananmen Square. Other armed police units are involved in border defense, and guarding power plants and important sites like gold mines.
But some 730,000 of the 1 million armed police are primarily charged with maintaining public order, according to the latest estimate by the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.
Since the 1989 debacle, numerous army units have transferred to the armed police, mostly the lowest-ranking infantry and artillery divisions.
"They were the dregs" of the army, said James Mulvenon, a military expert with the Rand Corporation in Washington, of the 14 divisions shifted in 1997.
It is unclear how much training and support these transfers and new recruits have received for their increasingly delicate role.
"I don't see much evidence" that the People's Armed Police "has really improved its operational capabilities very much since 1989," Mr. Mulvenon said.
In the mid-1990's, in an apparent effort to improve management and training, control of most units was shifted from the Ministry of Public Security to the Central Military Commission. The top officers have been drawn from the People's Liberation Army.
But outside experts believe that command is relatively decentralized, and that provincial political leaders have considerable say over how the armed police troops are used.
As with the regular army, corruption and extensive involvement in outside businesses have weakened many units, and the armed police have been ordered to relinquish business activities.
The armed police were already chronically underfunded, Mr. Mulvenon said, in part because they must draw money from several different sources that have no control over their operations. The costs are shared among provincial governments, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Public Security Ministry, among others. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); TIBET (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S ARMED POLICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE'S ARMED POLICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); TIBET (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); RIOTS (89%); TRENDS (75%); POLITICS (73%); POLICE FORCES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); CORRUPTION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK JIANG ZEMIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



584 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Alliance Fights a Plan to Develop a Florida Getaway Born of Racism

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: VIRGINIA KEY, Fla., March 25

 BODY:
For years in Dade County, until 1945, the Atlantic Ocean was emerald green and deep blue, the beach was black-specked gray, and the people who swam and sunbathed and built castles in the sand were, by law, white. Jim Crow laws banned black people from Miami Beach, from Key Biscayne, from a picture-postcard ocean that gave South Florida a reason for being.
Think, say black residents old enough to remember, what it was like to live beside such cool beauty and not be able to stick a toe in it. 
 For the people who did much of the heavy lifting in this utopia, it was a tropical paradise with a padlock. As early as the 1920's, the men who created Miami, dredging it from muck and rotted mangroves, talked of having a beach just for blacks, to ward off inevitable protests. But it was the summer of 1945 before county leaders made a deserted barrier island called Virginia Key the county's only beach for black people.
The fact that at the time there was no bridge to get to the island, about two miles off Miami and immediately north of Key Biscayne, still makes many older black people here shake their heads. "Don't quite remember how we got there," said Athalie Range, 83, the first black City Commissioner in Miami.
But a beach born from racism and created as a vehicle for segregation went on to become an important recreational and cultural center for blacks in this county, now called Miami-Dade, drawing church groups, prize fighters and famous entertainers. They rode a ferry at first, until a bridge was built, and made Virginia Key a playground of their own that ended only when the county started opening other beaches in the desegregation days of the mid-1960's.
Now, as developers eye this small key of largely palm and sand with intentions of turning it into an upscale resort area, the older black residents of Miami-Dade are shaking their heads once again.
Developers have coveted the key over the years, and now the City of Miami, its legal owner, is considering leasing the property to entrepreneurs who have suggested building everything from a resort hotel with a marina, restaurants, and entertainment venues to an upscale campground with cottages, picnic areas and spaces for recreational vehicles.
An alliance of environmentalists, historians and black activists are fighting that plan. They want the key, which the city says is about 1,000 acres, to remain undeveloped, except for a civil rights park that would honor black residents who fought against segregation. If it belongs to anybody, older black residents said, Virginia Key belongs to them, because the county once gave it to them to keep them off the white beaches.
"It served its purpose," said John D. Johnson, 85, a retired Municipal Court judge and one of the many older black residents who remembers why the island once belonged to them.
"It has a history behind it," said Mr. Johnson, who remembers driving out from Overtown, one of Miami's black neighborhoods, for barbecues on the Fourth of July.
"Pleasant memories we have," he said, of a difficult time.
Emphasizing the county's position, Dena Bianchino, assistant city manager for development for Miami, said, "The point is that we have this beautiful tropical urban island where we can offer people a sophisticated hotel experience, a camping experience and a wildlife destination."
Mingling with the signatures of white pioneers on the city's first charter of more than 100 years ago are those of the black residents who helped build the city, including Bahamians who became a part of the city's history. But in this place they helped build, many blacks consider themselves forgotten.
As the political and economic power gradually shifted from white residents to Hispanic ones, particularly the Cuban-Americans who have made Miami home, the shootings of blacks by white and Hispanic police officers led to riots in the Overtown and Liberty City sections in 1989 and 1991. It is those riots, many black residents say, that overshadow a much richer, and more substantial, history in which black residents fought against Jim Crow.
"In Miami, I can't think of anything very significant where those persons are remembered," said Mrs. Range, the former Commissioner. But a park, dedicated to them on the same island that whites once used to exile blacks, "is something that we are really due."
It is only human nature, she said, that black residents would push for the monument at a time when developers want to turn it into a playground for people who can afford waterfront cottages.
City and county leaders gave them the key, black residents said, to quiet a growing resentment that had already led to protests and threatened to bring bad publicity to a tourist area that could not afford it.
It was the mid-1940's, long before the battle against segregation began to capture national headlines. Black residents here, led by the Colored Ministerial Alliance and other groups, went swimming at Haulover Beach in the hope of being arrested and getting a chance to test the Jim Crow laws in court. City and county leaders gave them their own beach instead.
Black residents had to pay 75 cents -- a steep price in 1945 -- for a ferry ride from a dock on the Miami River. But even though black residents knew the key had been given to them begrudgingly, it quickly became a place for celebrations, where members of fraternities, sororities, church groups and families swam, ate and played, said Mrs. Range and others who came here.
Over time, the county built cottages, cabanas and barbecue pits, and finally, in 1947, a bridge. Entertainers like Nat King Cole, who were banned from white hotels on Miami Beach, stayed here, with black baseball players, boxers and others. The servants who waited on wealthy, white winter visitors were also banned from the white beaches, so they stayed on the key, too.
"We had fun," said Walter Anders, 70, who remembers the key's heyday.
But the beach was also "a unifying factor," Mr. Anders said. "It was a place where you made friends."
The civil rights movement ultimately gave blacks access to other beaches and made Virginia Key unnecessary. A hurricane in the mid-1960's destroyed much of what remained of the permanent buildings, and now the Public Parks Coalition, a Miami group, and the others want to leave the key to the manatees, wading birds and other wildlife, said Greg Bush, a spokesman for the coalition. Developers would damage the barrier island that has miraculously survived South Florida's runaway development, Mr. Bush said, while a park and monument would not intrude on that wildlife nearly so much as motor homes.
"We're worried," he said, that the city will sell both the history and ecology of the place, for a profit.
Ms. Bianchino, the assistant city manager, said the city would keep the beach open to the public, adding:"We're not going to touch the critical wildlife area of it. I don't think the real issue is the historical nature of the property. It's development versus nondevelopment."
Mrs. Range, the former commissioner, does not think it odd that blacks want to build a monument to their struggle on the very site of their onetime exile.
"We forget about these things," she said of the black history on the key, "and when it comes to a point when someone wants to do something else, you remember."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: This beach on Virginia Key was once for blacks, and they want a memorial on the key, while Miami is considering leasing the area to developers. (Laura Kleinhenz/Saba for The New York Times)
 
Map of Florida shows location of Virginia Key

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); VIRGINIA KEY (FLA); UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; BLACKS COUNTIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BEACHES (89%); RESORTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); HISTORY (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK JOHN D JOHNSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



585 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: A Zoo in Peril Stirs a Debate About Navajo Traditions

BYLINE: By CATHERINE C. ROBBINS 

DATELINE: WINDOW ROCK, Ariz.

 BODY:
A spring sandstorm whipping into the Navajo Nation's zoo does not ruffle Yogi, a 475-pound bear sedated and sprawled on the ground for his annual checkup. Scott Bender, a veterinarian, stoops to listen to the animal's heart, using a stethoscope with tubes wrapped in delicate Navajo beadwork. A dozen zoo workers and visiting children, most of them Navajos, watch intently from outside the bear's enclosure, and Dr. Bender improvises a bear anatomy lesson.
The fate of Yogi and 77 other animals in the seven-acre zoo here in northeast Arizona has brought an unusual controversy to the Navajo people and to Kelsey Begaye, the tribe's new president. Although the issue seems simple -- even humorous, to outsiders -- it signals the stresses among the reservation's 175,000 Navajos. 
 Faced with economic depression, political instability and technological advances, many Navajos are turning for guidance to their traditions and culture. But in this case, the assertion of tradition and the cultural reverence for animals have combined to put the future of the 36-year-old zoo in doubt.
"It's a culture shock that we're experiencing," said Harry Walters, a Navajo who is an anthropologist and the chairman of the Center for Dineh Studies at Dineh Community College, about 50 miles north of Window Rock. "Dineh" is Navajo for "the people," what members of the tribe call themselves.
The controversy began on Jan. 11, the last day in office of the tribe's outgoing president, Milton Bluehouse. He ordered the zoo closed and its animals set free, saying that he gave the order because two Navajo women reported to him that Holy People -- a reference to Navajo deities -- had appeared to them and issued a warning.
The deities, the women told him, had said that the Navajo people were not living according to tradition and that they were upsetting the natural order by keeping animals caged in the zoo. Located in Window Rock, the capital of the Navajo Nation, the zoo is behind the Navajo Museum, amid imposing red sandstone cliffs and monoliths.
The sightings of the Holy People are similar to appearances of Mary in Western Europe, but with a critical difference, Mr. Walters said. "Rather than focus on the sightings to determine if who saw it was nuts or not -- that's what a Westerner would do -- we look at it as a message: 'Are we going the way we should?' " he said.
The protest over the zoo's closing surprised Navajo officials. During Mr. Begaye's first month in office, he received more letters on the zoo than on any other issue, said Tina James, his press officer. Most were from Navajo children wanting the zoo to remain open.
Mr. Begaye quickly but temporarily reversed Mr. Bluehouse's order, and no animals were released. But the controversy flared on Navajo and English-language talk radio and in regional newspapers.
Larry Foster, Mr. Begaye's chief of staff, met with the Navajo Nation's Hataalii Advisory Council, a group of medicine men, which declared that it would be disrespectful to discuss the animals' fate while they were sleeping or hibernating. The group imposed a period of silence until the first thunderstorms, which generally come in April, Ms. James said.
Mr. Foster said that the president would consult with the tribal council's natural resources committee before making a final decision.
Tribal officials are considering options other than closing the zoo, including letting the current population die and not accepting other animals. Another option is to rename the zoo, because "zoo" is considered disrespectful to the animals, and call it a natural resources center. Shuttling between meetings with his new staff recently, a harried Mr. Begaye said, "By not closing it, we're saying leave it open."
The controversy comes at a difficult time for the Navajo Nation. Last year, the tribe had four presidents, including two who resigned because of financial questions. While other tribes have looked to gambling to boost their economies, Navajos have twice voted against casino development. Mr. Begaye has characterized economic conditions on the 27,000-square-mile reservation, the biggest in the United States, as worse now than during the Great Depression. Unemployment stands at 46 percent, per capita income is $5,600, and the reservation's poverty rate is 56 percent. Revenue from natural resource development last year dropped by 25 percent.
That the zoo's animals have become caught up in the tribe's stresses is not surprising. Animals are central to Navajo culture and religious beliefs, an integral part of the natural order, the cycles of life that maintain balance. Tradition strictly governs the treatment of animals, including, for instance, how to use or dispose of every part of a deer. Grave consequences can be expected from sport hunting, because it violates the natural order that insures rain, bountiful crops and effective ceremonial life, Mr. Walters said.
"When we use these living things," he said, "we do it within this order, so we don't upset the balance."
Navajos speak fondly of animals, and the term "respect" creeps into conversations about animals.
"I used to play with bear cubs, when I was 4 or 5," said Mr. Foster.
But by tradition Navajos do not keep animals enclosed, not even inside their homes as pets, although cats, dogs and horses may live outside, around a house. The Navajo language does not have a word for "pet" and uses instead a variant of the word for "horse," an animal that was introduced by Europeans, Mr. Walters said.
This is how he described the philosophical underpinning of Navajo attitudes toward animals: "The environment is part of you. The space you occupy is a part of you. May there be beauty all around me. This is where we are."
At the zoo, Dr. Bender and Loline Hathaway, the curator, tuck in Yogi and then check the cougars and wolves. There are no exotic animals at the zoo, which houses only species that are known to Navajos.
Dr. Bender and Ms. Hathaway, who are both white, said that many of the animals would perish if they were released. Some, like the eagle with an amputated wing, were brought to the park because of injuries that still cause problems. Others like Gummer, the toothless resident coyote, are geriatric. The reaction of animals like the cougars, which have lived at the zoo since they were cubs, is hard to predict. If they were to fend for themselves for the first time, attacks on people might occur.
Because of Federal wildlife regulations, species like the eagle and wolf are protected and cannot be released.
Ms. Hathaway, who has directed the zoo for 16 years, said visitors signing the guest register overwhelmingly support keeping it open. Two visitors who wanted it closed were animal rights advocates from Boston who took pictures to include in a mural they were making there.
The zoo was founded in 1963, when New Mexico game and fish officials gave a bear to the tribe. As stray and injured animals were brought to the zoo, it grew, with tribal financing. Over the decades, Navajo school children have visited, and medicine men have gathered eagle and hawk feathers to use in ceremonies.
"We were more relaxed then," said Martin Link, an anthropologist who was the first director of the Navajo Museum and became a de facto zoo director when he took in that first bear. In February, the Navajo Department of Natural Resources gave Mr. Link, who is white, an award for his service at both the museum and the zoo.
Mr. Link said he was not surprised at the controversy over the zoo. "As basic culture changes and parts of it start to disintegrate, the things that hold on are the negative aspects: 'Don't do that,' " he said.
Not all traditionalists favor closing the zoo. Anderson Hoskie, a medicine man who uses traditional healing practices in his work with Navajo substance abusers, said some medicine men have looked to the spirits of the zoo animals to guide and protect them, and he has used the eagle to perform the rare Eagle Chant ceremony for general health protection.
As Mr. Hoskie talked about the ancient healing ceremony, a hundred yards away in a meeting room, tribal managers were attending a seminar on the year 2000 computer problem given by Johns Hopkins University. The juxtaposition may jar outsiders, but Mr. Walters points out that over the centuries, Navajos have successfully absorbed new ways of doing things, from raising sheep to computer technology. The problem now, he said, is that "we're changing so suddenly that we have these clashes." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (76%); WESTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WINDOW ROCK (ARIZ); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (76%); WESTERN EUROPE (52%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ZOOS; NAVAJO INDIANS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (53%); 

PERSON: ROBBINS, CATHERINE C MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



586 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Albany Memo;
Democrats Keep Eye on Veto Knife

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
When Gov. George E. Pataki used his veto power over New York's budget last year for the first time, boldly slicing more than $1 billion in spending, it so startled Democratic lawmakers that it has left them with a kind of political post-traumatic stress. Worried, even panicked, that the Governor will again wipe away their programs, the Democrats have all but brought this year's talks to a standstill as they hunt for a way to fend him off.
Some call for quickly reconciling with him by meeting many of his demands. Others urge hostile tactics, with the Democratic majority in the Assembly stalling his proposals until he backs down. 
 All the choices are nettlesome, which is why the Democrats have fallen back on the quintessential Albany strategy: delay. And that means that the state is almost certain to miss the April 1 deadline for a new budget for the 15th year in a row.
At the heart of the Democrats' anxiety is this realization: Mr. Pataki was running for re-election last year, but he still did not shy from erasing more than 1,000 politically popular items in the budget approved by the Legislature, from aid for school construction to AIDS and cultural grants. This year, after coasting to another term with little apparent damage from the vetoes, he will no doubt be even less hesitant about invoking this authority.
"The Governor's vetoes last year were a great surprise," said Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., a Brooklyn Democrat. "It really put us on notice that in this year's negotiations, there must be some type of fail-safe position and method of insuring that those things we put in the budget, that they are held harmless from the Governor's potential vetoes."
Determined to bolster his credentials as a fiscal conservative as he broadens his national profile, Mr. Pataki wants the budget to grow at no more than the rate of inflation, about 2 percent. His archrivals, the Assembly Democrats, are seeking far more -- a 4 percent increase by their reckoning, and 8 percent in the disdainful estimation of Mr. Pataki, who has repeatedly termed that level unacceptable.
Before last year, Mr. Pataki and the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, would ultimately have reached some back-room compromise, joined by the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, an upstate Republican. But in 1998, glasnost swept through Albany, and instead of negotiating the budget in private with the Governor, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno turned the job over to legislative committees, which reached an agreement without a direct role for Mr. Pataki.
Because he was not involved in the horse-trading, and so not bound by any promises, Mr. Pataki had more freedom to wield his veto knife. It was a defining moment in his tenure, and in recent days it has seemed as if he is spoiling for a replay.
"I will exercise that constitutional power if it comes to that," he said Thursday, referring to new vetoes.
Reacting to such threats, the Assembly Democrats are mulling options. The most drastic would be to reject the conference committees and seek a return of the days when the three leaders negotiated the budget in private. Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bruno would oppose that, and it would represent a public relations stain for the Assembly Democrats, given that the committees are considered a sign that the Capitol is adopting late-20th-century government customs.
Short of that, the Democrats hope to persuade Mr. Pataki to advise the conference committees about their work, so they can avoid proposals that might incur vetoes. It is not clear, though, how much Mr. Pataki will oblige.
Mr. Silver could give up trying to lure Mr. Pataki into the process, and instead seek to forge an alliance with Mr. Bruno, who is a longtime Pataki ally but could yet turn traitorous. If Mr. Bruno would agree to override Pataki vetoes, the Assembly Democrats could probably protect their proposals. Last year, the Senator opposed an override, unwilling to embarrass the Governor while he was seeking re-election.
Now, Mr. Bruno will not rule out an override, and as a result he has become a pivotal figure in the budget fight -- courted by both Mr. Pataki and Mr. Silver.
The Senate Republicans are seeking more of an increase than Mr. Pataki, less than the Assembly Democrats. If the Governor also finds that route unacceptable, Mr. Bruno could desert him. The Senator might conclude that he needs the extra spending to help his members win re-election in 2000. After all, it is easier for Mr. Pataki to be tightfisted because he does not face the voters again until 2002. (Last year, even with the vetoes, Mr. Pataki pushed through an election-year budget with a 7 percent increase.)
Mr. Bruno has not shown his cards yet, preferring to try to mediate between Mr. Pataki and Mr. Silver, who dislike each other and mostly talk through Mr. Bruno.
In the budget battle, Mr. Silver has fewer bargaining chits than the Governor. Still, Mr. Silver has already refused to allocate money for charter schools, a key Pataki program, knowing that he can try to exchange that for the Governor's approval on Democratic spending items.
Mr. Silver has criticized the Republicans for the impasse, saying that Mr. Pataki introduced his budget late and Mr. Bruno has made it difficult to agree on the amount available to spend. For the Speaker, though, delay is a time-honored tactic.
Legislative leaders long ago realized that the public blames the Governor more than lawmakers for late budgets, largely because he is better known. So the Legislature has often tried to gain the upper hand by refusing to act on the budget.
This year, the Assembly Democrats are hoping that if the dispute drags on, they can link the late budget to Mr. Pataki's recent national travels, portraying him as neglecting his duties at home in favor of Republican politics.
That strategy has one obvious pitfall. In return for winning Mr. Pataki's support for a salary increase for lawmakers, the Legislature agreed in December to a new law that withholds lawmakers' pay after April 1 until they approve a budget. Mr. Pataki, though, gets paid.
Democrats, who increasingly grumble about the law, vow not to cave in to the Governor. They continue to assail the Pataki budget, saying that it calls for unconscionable reductions in health care, education and other programs.
What will break the impasse? Mr. Silver was asked that question on Thursday, and he did not seem to have a ready answer. But he appeared in no hurry to hurry things up. Maybe what is needed, he said, with the budget deadline fast approaching, is "some exposure to the public as to what the issues are." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; VETOES (US) VETO (91%); BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (77%); APPROVALS (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (66%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



587 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Old Enmities Puncture Baseball Detente in Cuba

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: HAVANA, March 27

 BODY:
Despite the excitement over the Baltimore Orioles' exhibition game here and the veneer of openness it conveys, American baseball comes to Cuba in a climate of heightened political repression. A law passed this year tightens the reins on both dissent and press freedom and specifically makes it a crime to engage in conduct that supports American policy toward Cuba.
And despite the feel-good nature of an event that exemplifies the Clinton Administration's stated efforts to reach out to the Cuban people, the Orioles come less than three months after the President rejected bipartisan calls to review the 37-year-old trade embargo against Cuba and its failure so far to bring democratization here. 
 So when two prominent "people to people" exchanges -- the Orioles game and a joint concert by more than 100 Cuban and American artists -- play on Sunday, the backdrop will not be rapprochement but one of the chillier periods of the cold war relationship between Cuba and the United States.
"They're pretty bad," an American official said of the relations. "They're not trying to accomplish anything with us or do anything constructive at this point."
Jose Luis Toledo, a member of the National Assembly and dean of the law school at Havana University, concurred. "There's no evolution in the relations," he said in an interview. "They are where they've always been."
International human rights monitors said Cuba's latest retrenching only served to underscore how little the situation has changed, even after Pope John Paul II, during his visit here last year, urged Cuba to open up to the world. But perhaps because of the high expectations raised by the Pope's visit, the Government now finds itself the target of international condemnation over its new curbs and the recent sentencing of four dissidents charged with sedition.
The crackdown is widely regarded as an attempt to assert control in response to growing internal dissent and in anger at the measures that the Clinton Administration instituted last January in lieu of a fundamental re-evaluation of American policy. Some steps taken by Washington, like allowing more dollars to flow to Cuba, aim at providing direct help to Cubans, but officials here argue that the true goal is destabilization.
In a message to the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva, delivered on Wednesday, Vice President Carlos Lage defended the crackdown, citing "exceptional" conditions caused by American efforts to "destabilize the country and liquidate the socialist state."
"At the time of judging Cuba and its revolution, it can't be forgotten that ours is not just any country," Mr. Lage said.
International rights monitors say such a reaction is to be expected, particularly when a government perceives a loss of control. Cuba's control has been slowly eroding because of increasing contacts with the outside world through family visits and tourism, and more access to dollars, which makes Cubans less economically dependent on the Government, American and other Western officials said.
"The reaction of the regime is totally predictable." said Jose Miguel Vivanco, executive director of the Americas division of Human Rights Watch in Washington. "The big challenge is to keep cool heads and keep going, trying to have a flexible policy toward Cuba and to pressure, in a concerted way, the Cuban Government to improve human rights."
This week two groups, the Press Association, whose membership list stretches from Canada to Argentina, and the Committee to Protect Journalists, which is based in New York, cited Cuba as being among the worst violators of press freedoms. Amnesty International says that the number of political prisoners in Cuba has declined but that at least 350 remain.
They include Vladimiro Roca, Felix A. Bonne, Rene Gomez Manzano and Marta B. Roque, who were sentenced this month to terms from 3 1/2 to 5 years for sedition after issuing a document urging the Communist Party to allow political pluralism and an impartial legal system.
"They shouldn't be in prison just for having an opinion," said Magaly de Armas, wife of Mr. Roca, who is 56. "Vladimiro says his father always taught him to put his ideas into practice if he was sure of them, and to follow ideas, not men." Mr. Roca is the son of a revolutionary leader, Blas Roca, who died in 1987.
In a public response to the international uproar over the sentences, Cuban officials said in the Government newspaper Granma that the four were sentenced not because of their opinions but because they served the goals of American officials by meeting with them, calling for a boycott of elections and other such "subversive" actions.
Laws passed last month present critics of the Government with ever harsher penalties. While an anticrime law, addressing new crimes like money laundering and stiffening penalties for drug trafficking and prostitution of minors, is accepted by many as necessary, another law has left dissidents and independent journalists with what one called "psychological paralysis."
This law imposes sentences of 7 to 15 years on anyone who provides information "to facilitate the objectives of the Helms-Burton law, the embargo and the economic war against our people" -- basically, the American sanctions. Fines and up to eight years in jail can now be imposed on those possessing or disseminating "subversive" American material. Anyone collaborating with newspapers, radio, television and other "foreign" media to further the American goals faces as much as five years in jail.
"The trick of this law is its ambiguity," said Raul Rivero, head of Cubapress, a news agency of 27 independent journalists who have continued working with American and other foreign news media. "The problem is you never know when you're 'collaborating.' Even a love letter could be interpreted that way."
In this climate of fear, the sports and cultural exchanges are going forward to impress American values on Cuban people directly, a senior Clinton Administration official said. The official said those and other contacts, like visits and remittances from Cuban-American relatives, have helped make Cubans less willing to accept their Government.
But while many here regard the exchanges as positive, some Cubans said they expect no breakthrough.
"The awareness is already there," noted Manuel Cuesta, secretary general of a social democratic organization whose goal is recognition as a political party. "That is why so many leave."
Mr. Vivanco, of Human Rights Watch, said the United States embargo has divided the international community and prevented many countries that care about human rights from coalescing with the United States for a unified response to Cuba. He said that is about the only pressure that could make the Cuban Government budge. But American officials say the embargo will remain as long as Fidel Castro wants it lifted without making any reforms.
At a construction site here where baseball was the topic of conversation one recent afternoon, workers turned laconic when asked whether they thought Sunday's game, the first between Cuba and an American Major League team since the revolution, would improve relations.
Finally one of them, Julio Martinez, a 34-year-old mason, spoke up and said: "In the field of sports, we're getting closer. What it does in other fields I don't know because that's none of my business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Baltimore Orioles will play an exhibition game in the Latinoamericano Stadium in Havana today against a team of Cuban all-stars. It will be the first time in 40 years that a major league team has played in Cuba. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (58%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); HAVANA, CUBA (58%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BASEBALL (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); SENTENCING (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



588 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: IN RUSSIA;
Around U.S. Embassy, A Nip of the Cold War

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 27

 BODY:
Caught up in the belligerent hysteria that has filled the sidewalks in front of the American Embassy here for the last three days, Aleksei Yermakov could not have been happier.
"Look around, there are only young people," said Mr. Yermakov, a 40-year-old interpreter, grinning at the black-jacketed youths shouting obscenities and throwing eggs, beer and paint at the embassy's mustard yellow walls. "Isn't it wonderful?" 
 Mr. Yermakov came here on Wednesday night as NATO launched its first bombs against Yugoslavia. By his account, things got off to a nasty start.
"We climbed up on embassy cars, jumped on them, scratched swastikas on them," he said gleefully. "We went down to the gate where the employees live. One came out to move his car. We surrounded him, and he had to call for help."
Like many other protesters, Mr. Yermakov came to the United States Embassy to show his support for the Serbs, seen here as Slavic Davids under attack by an American Goliath. But those centuries-old sympathies are only one reason for the sudden outbreak of a virulent anti-American virus in Moscow this week that sent shivers of hostility and resentment through the body politic.
For many Russians, the issue was not so much the rediscovery of an old Slavic brotherhood as the re-emergence of a familiar enemy: Uncle Sam. If during the cold war Soviet propaganda continually warned about creeping American hegemony, today, as the American-led forces of NATO launched wave after wave of missiles at Yugoslav targets, it seemed to some here as though that hegemony had actually taken hold.
Not only do many Russians see NATO's use of force as wrong, misguided or outright criminal. They also view it as a reminder of their powerlessness to hold it in check.
"Russia is a great country," said Mr. Yermakov, turning serious. "The main thing is to respect ourselves. I look at the Serbs and I am jealous. They have such faith in themselves."
Andrei Manilov runs an ad hoc recruitment center for volunteers signing up to fight for Serbia, set up under the auspices of the political party headed by the ultranationalist Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky.
"These men understand that today it's Serbia, tomorrow it could be Russia," he said. "NATO could decide to interfere anywhere -- in Chechnya, for example," he added, referring to the Russians' own breakaway region in the Caucasus.
"There is no hatred of the American people," chimed in a young man, sitting at a table nearby, waiting to sign up volunteers. "It is the American Government that wants to take over all of Europe. They are bringing their own order to Yugoslavia by the use of force."
"They want a Government formed by Washington, and they are doing it with military force," added the young man, who declined to give his name. He was alluding to the leaders of Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority, who have signed a proposed peace accord for the Serbian province.
So far, said Mr. Manilov, about 350 people had signed up at the Moscow volunteer center, where a row of military boots and other odd bits of gear were on display beneath a big television screen blaring out the latest news from Yugoslavia. He claimed that more than 10,000 had signed up at recruitment centers around Russia, where they now await visas to Yugoslavia and further orders from undetermined commanders.
Andrei Gusev, 21, a disk jockey at a Moscow nightclub, came to the center dressed in jeans and a camouflage jacket. "What is going on is out of control," he said. "I don't understand how you can bomb like this. It reminds me of Hitler. The Germans attacked in the same way."
Such one-sided perceptions of the conflict are not so strange, given the information about Kosovo available to the average Russian, said a political analyst, Andrei Piontkovsky.
"I would join this hysteria too if I only watched Russian television," he said. "Then my perception would be of a small Serbian nation attacked by an armada led by the most powerful country in the world. Nobody here knows much about the atrocities against Albanians."
"But, of course, the main issue is the impression that has been made very clearly that Russia is not playing in the superleague," he said.
There was a definite cold war ring to the reaction in Moscow this week. Communist Party chiefs fulminated against imperialistic aggression, the Foreign Minister lectured the West on its lack of morality, and at a news conference the Chief of the General Staff, Anatoly Kvashnin, took out his pointer and went to the map to show the pattern of what he termed enemy strikes against Serbia.
The only difference between this and the cold war era is that this time Russia is no longer a key player. Its military is not involved in the conflict, and its diplomacy has yet to make an impact on its outcome. The television reports of the all-night vigils being kept at the Ministry of Defense seemed almost poignant, a Sunset Boulevard performance by a former superpower.
And to make matters worse, for all the operational information generated by the Russian general staff, much of it turned out to be simply wrong -- like a statement attributed to Defense Minister Igor D. Sergeyev that NATO was getting ready to send in 22,000 ground troops.
Delivering a rundown on the first night of NATO action, General Kvashnin noted at a news conference that the Russian military had "preliminary information" that two NATO fighter jets -- a Tornado and an F-16 -- and several cruise missiles had been downed. "For some reason," he said ominously, "nothing is being said about this."
As it turned out, the reason for NATO's silence was that the downings -- also reported by Yugoslavia's state-controlled news media -- had not taken place. To some, the general's fumbling performance was a sign that Moscow's generals were simply going through old, outdated motions, trying to puff up their role.
"Actually, there is nothing strange about the fact that the general's speech was muffled and confused," said Pavel Felgenhauer, a Russian journalist and defense analyst. "I believe they are all having a 24-hour party, celebrating the return of the enemy. They are having a really good time. They are pretending that they are more important than they really are."
In a television interview this week, Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov insisted that Russia was not being left on the sidelines, noting that Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain was waiting for his call. "They are turning to us, they are turning to us," he said, repeating himself for emphasis. But others were drawing more ominous conclusions about the political shift in Russia as a result of the conflict over Kosovo.
"The side effect of the strikes is the long-awaited breakthrough of 'new political thinking' in Russia," wrote Leonid Radzikhovsky, a columnist in the newspaper Segodnya. "This something new is something old that was not completely forgotten -- xenophobia, envy-hatred toward America, an inferiority complex of a former empire,"
"The concern is that the strikes will give, in the end, a real and bloody justification for hatred of the 'blood-stained West' that has been accumulating for a long time," he wrote, noting the triumphant "roar of delight" from Russian generals and Communist Party chiefs.
"It is the roar of winners," he added. "It is a political and psychological victory over the more important enemy -- over Russia, its society, its people."
Krasnaya Zvezda, the Russian military's newspaper, ran a front-page article pointing to the NATO strikes as proof of what the newspaper said was Washington's illusion that it can still lay claim to the role of "world dictator."
"This is why it is like another sign from heaven for Russia," the commentator Vadim Markushin wrote. "It is time to use our own mind, time to look after ourselves, our economy and our security, and the strengthening of our armed forces."
"It is time to understand at last that neither the West nor anyone else can in principle be interested in a strong Russia," he wrote, before making a pitch for a regathering of the old Soviet empire, starting with Belarus and Ukraine, Russia's two Slavic neighbors.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gennadi Zyuganov, a Communist leader, addressing protesters outside the U.S. Embassy yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



589 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 6;Page 40;Column 1;Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4817 words

HEADLINE: A Manifesto for the Fast World

BYLINE: By Thomas L. Friedman; Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs columnist for The New York Times. This article is adapted from his book, "The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization," to be published in April by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

 BODY:
In the winter of 1996, I accompanied Madeleine K. Albright, then the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, on a trip to the war zones of Africa. During the last stop, in Rwanda, she asked her staff to pose for a picture outside her Air Force 737. The group included a Greek-American, a Czech-American, Jewish Americans, black Americans and white Americans. There were Air Force crewmen from small towns and diplomats from Ivy League colleges, and they were all standing there shoulder to shoulder.
As I watched the Rwandan ground crew curiously watching the picture-taking, I couldn't help wondering what they were making of this scene, which represented America at its best: the spirit of community, the melting pot, the willingness to help faraway strangers in need and, most important, a concept of citizenship based on allegiance to an idea rather than to a tribe. As a picture, it represented everything that Rwanda was not. 
 And as I stood there, I started to get mad -- not just about the tragedy in Africa but also about a budget debate that was then going on in Congress. We have something tremendously special in America, I thought, but if we want to preserve it, we have to pay for it and nurture it. Yet, when I listened to the infamous 1994 class of freshman Republicans -- and when I hear echoes today, with the likes of the House majority leader, Dick Armey, boasting that he has traveled abroad only once -- I heard mean-spirited voices, voices for whom the American Government was some kind of evil enemy. I heard men and women who insisted that the market alone should rule. And I heard lawmakers who seemed to believe that America had no special responsibility for maintaining global institutions and stabilizing an international system that benefits us more than any other country. And as I thought about all this on the tarmac of Kigali airport, I said to myself: "Well, my freshman Republican friends, come to Africa. It's a freshman Republican's paradise." Yes sir, nobody in Liberia pays taxes. There's no gun control in Angola. There's no welfare as we know it in Burundi and no big government to interfere with the market in Rwanda.
But a lot of their people sure wish there were. Like the desk clerk in Luanda, Angola, who looked at me as if I were nuts when I asked her if it was safe to take a walk three blocks from the hotel, down the main street of the capital in the middle of the day. "No, no, no," she shook her head -- not safe." I'll bet she wouldn't mind paying some taxes for 100,000 more police officers.
And then there was the Liberian radio reporter who demanded to know why the Marines came to Liberia after the civil war broke out in 1989, evacuated only the United States citizens and then left. "We all thought, 'The Marines are coming, we will be saved,"' he said. "How could they leave?" Poor guy, his country has no marines to rescue him. I'll bet he wouldn't mind paying some taxes for a few good men.
Employers don't have to fret about those pesky worker-safety rules in Angola, let alone services for the handicapped. The 70,000 Angolans who have had limbs blown off by land mines get by just fine on their own. You can see them limping around the streets of Luanda in Fellini-esque contortions, hustling for food and using tree limbs as a substitute for the human variety. And in Rwanda and Burundi, no one is asked to pay for Head Start, Medicaid, national service or student-loan programs. Instead they just have a Darwinian competition for scarce land, energy and water, with Tutsi and Hutu tribesmen taking turns downsizing one another to grab more resources for themselves.
Many in Congress are reluctant to go on trips abroad. They think it looks bad to their constituents. Too bad. They want all the respect and benefits that come with being an American in today's world, but without any of the sacrifices and obligations that go with it. They should come to war-torn Africa and get a real taste of what happens to countries where there is no sense of community, no sense that people owe their government anything, no sense that anyone is responsible for anyone else, and where the rich have to live behind high walls and tinted windows, while the poor are left to the tender mercies of the marketplace.
I don't want to live in such a country, or such a world. It is not only wrong, it will become increasingly dangerous. Designing ways to avoid that should be at the heart of American domestic and foreign policy. Unfortunately, neither the Democrats nor the Republicans are thinking in those terms. They behave as if the world is now safe for us to be both insular and mindlessly partisan. To the extent that there is serious discussion about a shared national interest, it is about whether we can define a new common threat -- Iraq, China, Russia -- and not a new common mission. The "big enemy" is still the organizing principle of American internationalism, not the "big opportunity" -- let alone "the big responsibility."
America does have a bipartisan national interest to pursue, and it has an enormous role to play. But we won't begin to fully grasp that until we understand that we are in a new international system. For the last 10 years we've been talking about "the post-cold-war world." We've described the world by what it isn't -- it's not the cold war -- because we don't know what it is. Well, what it is is a new international system called globalization. Globalization is not just a trend, not just a phenomenon, not just an economic fad. It is the international system that has replaced the cold-war system. And like the cold-war system, globalization has its own rules, logic, structures and characteristics.
Unlike the cold-war system, which was largely static, globalization involves the integration of free markets, nation-states and information technologies to a degree never before witnessed, in a way that is enabling individuals, corporations and countries to reach around the world farther, faster, deeper and cheaper than ever. It is also producing a powerful backlash from those brutalized or left behind.
If all the threats and opportunities of the cold-war system grew out of "division," all the threats and opportunities of the globalization system grow out of "integration." The symbol of the cold-war system was a wall, which divided everyone. The symbol of the globalization system is the World Wide Web, which unites everyone. In the cold war we reached for the hot line between the White House and the Kremlin -- a symbol that we were all divided but at least someone, the two superpowers, were in charge. In the era of globalization we reach for the Internet -- a symbol that we are all connected but nobody is in charge.
If the cold war had been a sport, it would have been sumo wrestling, says Michael Mandelbaum, a foreign affairs expert at Johns Hopkins University. "It would be two big fat guys in a ring, with all sorts of posturing and rituals and stomping of feet, but actually very little contact until the end of the match, when there is a brief moment of shoving and the loser gets pushed out of the ring, but nobody gets killed."
If globalization were a sport, it would be the 100-yard dash, over and over and over. And no matter how many times you win, you have to race again the next day. And if you lose by just a hundredth of a second it can be as if you lost by an hour.
The driving idea behind globalization is free-market capitalism. The more you let market forces rule and the more you open your economy to free trade and competition, the more efficient and flourishing your economy will be. Globalization means the spread of free-market capitalism to virtually every country in the world.
The defining document of the cold-war system was the Treaty. The defining document of the globalization system is the Deal. While the defining measurement of the cold war was weight, the defining measurement of the globalization system is speed -- in commerce, travel, communication and innovation. The cold war was about Einstein's mass-energy equation, E=mc2. Globalization is about Moore's Law, which states that the computing power of silicon chips will double every 18 months.
The cold-war system was built around nation-states, and it was balanced by two superpowers: the United States and the Soviet Union. The globalization system is built around three balances that overlap and affect one another. One is the traditional balance between states and states. The next is the balance between states and "supermarkets" -- the huge global stock and bond markets. (The United States can destroy you by dropping bombs, and the supermarkets can destroy you by downgrading your bonds.)
The last is the balance between states and "super-empowered individuals." Because globalization has brought down the walls that limited the movement and reach of people, and because it has simultaneously wired the world into networks, it gives more power to individuals than ever before to directly influence markets and nation-states. For instance, Osama bin Laden, the Saudi millionaire with his own global network (Jihad Online), declared war on America, and the Air Force had to launch cruise missiles at him. We launched cruise missiles at an individual -- as though he were another nation-state.
As the country that benefits most from global economic integration, we have the responsibility of making sure that this new system is sustainable. This is particularly important at a time when the world has been -- and will continue to be -- rocked by economic crises that can spread rapidly from one continent to another. America has had 200 years to invent, regenerate and calibrate the balances that keep markets free without their becoming monsters. We have the tools to make a difference. We have an interest in making a difference. And we have the responsibility to make a difference.
Sustaining globalization is our overarching national interest. The political party that understands that first, the one that comes up with the most coherent, credible and imaginative platform for pursuing it, is the party that will own the real bridge to the future.
Designing a strategy to promote sustainable globalization at home and abroad is no easy task. And it is made even more complicated by the effects of globalization, which have intensified the world's long-running love-hate relationship with America. For the moment, America has many of the most sought-after goods, services and innovations in the global market. What people thought was American decline in the 1980's was actually America adjusting to the new system before anyone else. We're already around the second turn before some others have laced up their shoes. Globalization-is-U.S.
Because we are the biggest beneficiaries and drivers of globalization, we are unwittingly putting enormous pressure on the rest of the world. Americans may think their self-portrait is Grant Wood's "American Gothic," the strait-laced couple, pitchfork in hand, standing stoically outside the barn. But to the rest of the world, Americans actually look like some wild, multicolored Andy Warhol print.
To the rest of the world, American Gothic is actually two 20-something software engineers who come into your country wearing beads and sandals, with rings in their noses and paint on their toes. They kick down your front door, overturn everything in the house, stick a Big Mac in your mouth, fill your kids with ideas you never had or can't understand, slam a cable box onto your television, lock in the channel to MTV, plug an Internet connection into your computer and tell you, "Download or die."
We Americans are the apostles of the Fast World, the prophets of the free market and the high priests of high tech. We want "enlargement" of both our values and our Pizza Huts. We want the world to follow our lead and become democratic and capitalistic, with a Web site in every pot, a Pepsi on every lip, Microsoft Windows in every computer and with everyone, everywhere, pumping their own gas.
No wonder, therefore, that resentment of America is on the rise globally. In 1996 I visited Teheran and stayed in the Homa Hotel. The first thing I noticed was that above the front door in the lobby were the words "Down With U.S.A." It wasn't a banner. It wasn't graffiti. It was tiled into the wall. A short time later, I noticed that Iran's mullahs had begun calling America something other than the "Great Satan." They had begun calling it "the capital of global arrogance."
The Iranian leadership had grasped the important distinction between "global arrogance" and old-fashioned notions of imperialism, when one country physically occupies another. Global arrogance is when your culture and economic clout are so powerful and widely diffused that you don't need to occupy other people to influence their lives. Well, guess what? The Iranians aren't the only ones talking about America as "the capital of global arrogance." The French, Germans, Japanese, Indonesians, Indians and Russians also call us that now.
In most countries, people can no longer distinguish between American power, American exports, American cultural assaults, American cultural exports and plain old globalization.
Martin Indyk likes to tell the story of when, as Ambassador to Israel, he was called upon to open the first McDonald's in Jerusalem. McDonald's gave him a colorful baseball hat to wear, with the golden arches on it, so he would be properly attired as he ate the ceremonial first Big Mac in Jerusalem -- with Israel Television filming every bite for the evening news. At that moment, an Israeli teen-ager walked up to him, carrying his own McDonald's hat, which he handed to Ambassador Indyk with a pen and asked: "Are you the Ambassador? Can I have your autograph?" Somewhat sheepishly, Ambassador Indyk replied: "Sure. I've never been asked for my autograph before."
As the Ambassador prepared to sign his name, the Israeli teen-ager said to him, "Wow, what's it like to be the ambassador from McDonald's, going around the world opening McDonald's restaurants everywhere?"
Ambassador Indyk looked at the Israeli youth and said, "No, no. I'm the American Ambassador -- not the ambassador from McDonald's!" Ambassador Indyk described what happened next: "I said to him, 'Does this mean you don't want my autograph?' And the kid said, 'No, I don't want your autograph,' and he took his hat back and walked away."
Oh, well. The trick for America is to lead without being too overbearing, to be generous without overextending ourselves and to be tough without engendering too much resentment. But how?
First, forget about the political labels from the cold-war system. Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives; these terms are meaningless today. Instead, to locate yourself and your opponents in the new era, consider the accompanying chart of globalization identities.
The line across the middle from left to right describes how you feel about globalization. At the far right end of this line are the "Integrationists." These are the people who really welcome globalization because they think it is either good or inevitable and want to see it promoted through more free trade, more Internet commerce, more networking of schools, communities and businesses, so that we can have global integra-tion across 24 time zones and into cyberspace.
At the far left end of the globalization line are the "Separatists." These are people who believe that free trade and technological integration are neither good nor inevitable, because they widen income gaps, lead to jobs being sent abroad, homogenize cultures into global mush and lead to life being controlled by distant, faceless market forces. They want to cut off and kill globalization now.
So the first thing you have to do is locate yourself somewhere on this line. Are you a Separatist? An Integrationist? Or something in between?
Now look at the line running from top to bottom of the matrix. This is the distribution axis. It represents what sort of policies you believe governments should adopt to go along with globalization. At the lower end of this line are the "Social-Safety-Netters." These are people who believe that globalization will be sustainable only if it is democratized, in both the economic and the political sense.
Obviously, not everyone agrees with this approach. That's why at the other extreme from the Social-Safety-Netters are the "Let-Them-Eat-Cakers." These are people who believe that globalization is essentially winner-take-all, loser-take-care-of-yourself. They want to shrink government, taxes and safety nets, and let people reap the fruits of their own labor or pay the price of their own ineptitude.
So next you have to locate yourself on this distribution axis. Are you a Social Safety-Netter? Are you a Let-Them-Eat-Caker? Or something in between?
Bill Clinton is an Integrationist Social-Safety-Netter. Newt Gingrich, the former Speaker of the House, was an Integrationist Let-Them-Eat-Caker. That's why Clinton and Gingrich were always allies on free trade but opponents on Social Security-welfare spending. The House minority leader, Dick Gephardt, is a Separatist Social-Safety-Netter, while Ross Perot is a Separatist Let-Them-Eat-Caker. That's why Gephardt and Perot were allies in their opposition to Nafta but enemies on Social Security and welfare.
Al Gore and George W. Bush are interesting hybrids. Gore is an Integrationist Social-Safety-Netter, but not on the extreme end of either. He has certain Gephardtist leanings when it comes to free-trade issues that might alienate his labor-union base. Bush is an Integrationist Let-Them-Eat-Caker, but also not on the extreme end of either. He has certain Clintonite leanings on education, training and social spending that should appeal to centrist voters.
I'm an extreme Integrationist Social-Safety-Netter. I believe you dare not be a globalizer without being a safety-netter and social democrat, because if you don't equip the have-nots, know-nots and turtles to survive in the new system, they will eventually produce a backlash that will choke off your country from the world. And I believe you dare not be a safety-netter or social democrat without being a globalizer, because without ever-increasing integration, you will never generate the incomes and absorb the technologies needed to keep standards of living rising.
But what does it mean to be an Integrationist Social-Safety-Netter? I think it means articulating a politics, geo-economics and geopolitics of sustainable globalization.
 
Politics
The first thing a politics of sustainable globalization must include is a picture of the world, because no policy is sustainable without a public that understands why it's necessary. This is particularly true with globalization, because the people who are hurt by it know exactly who they are, but the people who benefit from it tend not to understand that at all. After World War II, successive Presidents instructed Americans about the One Big Thing in the world that would be at the center of American politics -- containing Communism. Today, globalization and rapid technological change are that Big Thing. And that means virtually every aspect of national policy -- health care, welfare, education, job training, the environment, market regulation, Social Security, free-trade expansion and military strategy needs to be adjusted so that we get the most out of the globalization system and cushion its worst aspects.
For instance, a politics of sustainable globalization would have to include a strategy for giving as many people as possible a financial stake in the Fast World. Whenever I think about this, I always recall a story that a Russian journalist, Aleksei Pushkov, told me back in April 1995 about one of his neighbors in Moscow. "He was this poor driver who lived in the apartment off the entryway. Every Friday night he would get drunk and sing along -- over and over in a very loud voice -- with two English songs: 'Happy Nation' and 'All She Wants Is Another Baby.' He had no idea what the words meant. When he got really drunk, he'd start beating his wife and she would start screaming. He was driving us crazy. I wanted to throw a grenade at him.
"Anyway," Pushkov continued, "about eight months ago, I don't know how, he got a share in a small car-repair shop. Since then, no more 'Happy Nation,' no more singing all night, no more beating his wife. He leaves every morning at 8:30 for work and he is satisfied. He knows he has some prospects in life now. My wife said to me the other day, 'Hey, look at Happy Nation' -- that's what we call him -- he's an owner now."'
Integrationist Social-Safety-Netters feel that there are a lot of things we can do to democratize globalization economically, promote social stability and prevent our own society from drifting even further into high walls and tinted windows. These measures need not be all that expensive, nor do they have to involve radical income redistribution -- or lavish welfare programs that violate the basic, neoliberal free-market rules of the system.
To that end, I believe that each Administration should offer an annual piece of legislation that I would call the Rapid Change Opportunity Act. It would accompany whatever integrationist policy the White House is pursuing that year -- whether it be Nafta expansion or most-favored-nation status for China. The act would vary each year, but its goal would be to create both the reality and perception that the Government understands that globalization spreads its blessings unevenly, and therefore the Government is constantly going to be adjusting its safety nets and trampolines to get as many people as possible up to speed for the Fast World.
Last year, my Rapid Change Opportunity Act would have included: pilot projects for public employment of temporarily displaced workers; tax breaks for severance pay for displaced workers; free government-provided resume consultation for anyone who loses a job, a further extension of the Kassebaum-Kennedy act, so that laid-off workers could keep their health insurance polices longer, and a national advertising campaign for one of the best, but most under-reported, bipartisan achievements of the Clinton era: the Workforce Investment Act.
Signed in August 1998, the act brought together and energized all the Government's job-training programs, including individual training accounts that workers can use for any training they believe will most advance their job opportunities, one-stop career centers for every job-training program and an increase in youth training programs by $1.2 billion over five years.
I would also include, in the Rapid Change Opportunity Act, increased lending to Asian, African and Latin American development banks to promote training of women, micro-lending to women and environmental cleanup. I'd also like to see an increase in financing for the International Labor Organization's new initiative for creating alternatives to child labor in countries where children are most abused. It's true: a hand-up really is better than a handout.
Even if we waste some money on these hand-up programs, the Rapid Change Opportunity Act would be a tiny price to pay for maintaining the social cohesion and political consensus for integration and free trade. Our motto should be: "Protection, Not Protectionism. Cushions, Not Walls. Floors, Not Ceilings."
 
Geo-Economics
I once wrote a fantasy about global investing that went something like this: I brushed up on my German and bought some German corporate bonds. I studied a little Japanese and picked up a few stocks on the Nikkei. I got a tip from a waiter at my local "House of Hunan" and bought a few shares on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. My broker tried to sell me some Lebanese bonds, but I told him that I already had wallpaper. I even did my thing for Russian reform by brushing up on the Cyrillic alphabet and buying a few Russian T-bills.
But after all this, I discovered that I had forgotten two little English words, "Alan Greenspan." Because when the Fed Chairman suddenly raised United States interest rates in the mid-1990's -- making the extra interest investors were getting on foreign bonds less attractive -- everyone started dumping securities in these foreign markets and bringing their money home. I got creamed. I was a bad lender, chasing higher rates of return without regard to risk.
Over the years I got a little smarter and became a better lender. I started doing my global investing through a mutual fund. A short time after Russia's economy went into a tailspin, in August 1998, I got a letter from that fund -- Tweedy, Browne Global Value -- reporting that its profits were down a bit because of the turmoil in international markets triggered by Russia's default. However, the fund was not down as much as many others because it had stayed away from Russia. The letter said of Russia that Tweedy "cannot understand investing in countries with little political stability, no laws protecting investors and a currency that may be put to better use as Kleenex." Yes, the Tweedy letter added, in the prior two or three years the Russian market increased fivefold, and then overnight lost 80 percent of its value -- a complete round trip." Russia, it turns out, was a bad borrower.
I tell these two stories because they capture in microcosm the two biggest threats to today's global financial system -- crises triggered by "bad lenders" and crises triggered by "bad borrowers." Just as there are drug users and drug pushers, in global economics there are bad borrowers, like Russia, and bad lenders, like myself. We need to address both.
Let's start with bad borrowers. I believe globalization did us all a favor by melting down the economies of Thailand, Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia and Brazil in the 1990's, because it laid bare a lot of rotten practices in countries that had prematurely globalized. People keep referring to what happened in countries like Indonesia as an economic "crisis." Well, excuse me, but I don't consider the downfall of the most corrupt, venal, greedy, ruling family in the world -- the Suhartos -- a crisis. People talk about Indonesia or Russia or Thailand as if they had these charming, efficient and equitable financial systems before big bad globalization came along. Hogwash! Globalization simply exposed a bunch of flimflam regimes and crony-capitalist systems that were not up to the demands of the global system. The real crisis in these countries is not economic, it's political.
The tragedy is that globalization flattened not only the crony capitalists but also a lot of little folks who were just working hard and playing by the local rules (however flawed). In the new geo-economics, we now have an opportunity to assist the innocent victims by helping their countries get up to speed. The only lasting way to do it, though, is to encourage them to become not just emerging markets but also "emerging societies" (like Poland, Hungary and Taiwan), with real regulatory and democratic institutions. That way, as they plug into the global system they can handle its inevitable surges and excesses. The real crisis will come if we don't take advantage of this moment.
All sorts of would-be geo-architects want to set up some new global institutions to slow down capital flows. This is both wrong and futile. We want to keep global capital flows as free as possible -- and even if we didn't, there's no way to restrict them anymore. The answer for countries is local, not global.
I like to compare countries to computers. Today, for the first time in history, we all have the same basic piece of hardware -- free markets. The question is, which countries will get the economic operating systems (neoliberal macroeconomics) and software (regulatory institutions and laws) to get the most out of those free markets and cushion them from the worst surges coming from the "electronic herd" of global investors.
Russia is the egregious example of a country that plugged into the herd with no operating system and no software, with predictably horrendous results. Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia plugged into the herd, but with a slow operating system: what I call "DOScapital 2.0" (crony capitalism). It was great for getting these countries from an average income of $500 per capita to $5,000. But when they wanted to move from $5,000 to $15,000, and the speed of the electronic herd moved from a 286 chip to a Pentium III, and they were still using DOScapital 2.0, a message came up on their screens: "You Have Performed a Series of Irrational Investments. Cannot Save Items. Delete Memory of All Inefficient Banks and Firms, and Download New Software and Operating System." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (94%); ANGOLA (93%); LIBERIA (92%); BURUNDI (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (94%); ANGOLA (93%); LIBERIA (92%); BURUNDI (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); BUDGETS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (56%); JEWS & JUDAISM (56%); GUN CONTROL (50%); 



590 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 46; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: ART / ARCHITECTURE;
Praise for Arts, but a Cold Shoulder for Artists

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS DAVIS; Douglas Davis is an artist, writer and teacher whose books include "The Five Myths of TV Power" and "The Museum Transformed."

 BODY:
IT wasn't long ago that artists were welcomed and embraced in the nation's capital as well as in the mainstream news media. I vividly recall a reception called by John Brademas, then majority whip of the House, in a majestic room on the Hill in the late 1970's. The artists were lined up on one side -- they included Robert Rauschenberg, George Segal, James Rosenquist and a younger, post-Pop Art tribe that included video-performance-conceptualists like me. The whip introduced us to the other side, an assembled throng of Senators and Representatives. One of them was Edward I. Koch, then a New York Congressman. I shook his hand and expressed my sorrow that SoHo, where I live, was excluded from his district. "If you live in SoHo," he told me, eyes gleaming, "I am your Congressman in spirit."
No such words are spoken in public these days. In a decade when unconventional artists (including writers, performers and musicians) have literally been smeared with chocolate, as well as charged with raiding the national treasury and subverting heterosexual family values, we're political poison. It's difficult to find a good word said on the floor of Congress on behalf of our individual contributions to the civil society, though the arts themselves are constantly praised. 
 Yes, there are faint signs of revivalism now: declarations of support for artists' teaching in public schools, where they seem to boost S.A.T. scores; a stamp dedicated to Jackson Pollock; the President's doubling Federal aid to the arts in his budget. But they are pale reflections beside the vintage gleam in Ed Koch's eyes.
The same paradox greets us in the news media. Despite consistently growing cultural coverage, the vanguard artist is often portrayed as an engaging roue at best, as psychotic at worst. Reams of copy are devoted to the charges against Karen Finley (the chocolate-smeared woman), Robert Mapplethorpe and Andres Serrano, as well as the 1994 performance in Minneapolis where the artist Ron Athey allegedly "sprayed" H.I.V.-infected blood on the audience. But their ideas -- Mr. Serrano, for example, intended his crucifix submerged in urine as a criticism of commercial exploitation, not of religion -- are rarely examined. Neither do we usually get an accurate account of controversial art events: in Minneapolis, the "spray-off" actually consisted of strips of cloth daubed with small amounts of noninfected blood and stretched on a rope above the audience.
Let me testify that this is a departure from the progressive trend that prevailed in the late 60's. When I joined Newsweek as a critic in 1970, the editors actually welcomed my insistence on explaining rather than denigrating the avant-garde. These were also the years when the budget for the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities gradually increased, jump-started by President Nixon and Leonard Garment, his friend and adviser. Thus the nation benefited from an imaginative series of programs that directly aided artists, particularly those working in new media or in poor rural and working-class districts. Less than one year from the new century, however, Congress continues to forbid the awarding of Federal dollars directly to artists. Some states, several private foundations and a number of large corporations are following suit.
Why have we decided to reject a group that has brought so much renown -- to say nothing of tourist gold -- to our society? At a time when Americans are more actively engaged in seeing and making art than ever? Museum attendance is up. Art galleries and alternative performance-art spaces sprouted in every American town and city in the 70's and 80's, only falling on hard times of late. Per capita prosperity has gone through the roof in this decade. And more Americans travel, take college-level courses (including art history) and buy original art than ever before.
By overwhelming margins, parents tell us they want more, not less, arts in the schools. We have twice elected a President whose formal commitment to the National Endowments is passionate, however mixed his performance while under siege from a Republican majority determined to end cultural beneficence. But Princeton University's respected Center for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies reports in its latest working paper, "Public Opinion and Political Vulnerability: Why Has the National Endowment for the Arts Been Such an Attractive Target?," that most Americans approve Government financing for the arts -- but not for their practitioners.
We thus face an absurd contradiction that begs deconstruction on some level beyond political posturing and sound biting. It's far too easy to blame this crisis on the excesses of an avant-garde lately run wild, in the repetitive manner of Sen. Jesse Helms and his allies. The avant-garde has always offended -- temporarily -- the mainstream, which one generation or so later begins to pay huge sums for its works. This cyclical progress began with Manet and the Impressionists. Pollock, now nearing Walt Whitman in popular reverie, enraged mainstream America in the 1950's: when I was a kid in school, Time magazine called him "Jack the Dripper."
No, we are living through a special, unprecedented moment. "Public Opinion and Political Vulnerability" notes that a decided shift took place between 1985 and this year, when voters were questioned about their support (or nonsupport) of Government financing for the arts. While evangelical Christians have always opposed the N.E.A. and N.E.H., they are now joined by Republicans who are opposed to almost any Federal expenditure on purely budgetary grounds. In the past, high-income "secular conservatives" nodded affirmatively at arts financing. Though small in number -- perhaps 25 percent of the electorate, tops -- this is a highly vocal group, superb at harassing the Congress.
In the middle there is a vast green land of centrist voters who want more of "the arts," by any means. Way over on the other side is another committed sector -- another 25 percent, perhaps, which includes highly educated whites and minorities, poor blacks and Hispanics, and arts professionals. But this impassioned coalition has been shellshocked in the last decade. With a few exceptions, it does not lobby, write Op Ed articles, call talk shows or speak out. It is mute.
I contend not only that this passivity is the core of the problem, but that it represents a swift and sharp reversal from the idealistic 60's and 70's. In those decades, virtually all my creative friends were encouraged by the new respect being paid by Congress and the news media. In fact, this reversal began in the late 50's, when a form of official openness to challenging new art surfaced in the sponsorship of touring international exhibitions that included the irreverent New York School. More than one historian has linked this new indulgence for truculent artists like Pollock, Mr. Rauschenberg and de Kooning with a vested cold war necessity: by welcoming their assaults on tradition, we demonstrated how "open" we were as opposed to the closed Soviet state.
Yet the postwar vanguard did flower in the nexus of power. Among the eloquent pro-art voices ringing in my ears in those days was that of Mr. Brademas, who convened that late 70's meeting and is now president emeritus of New York University and chairman of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities. His fervent allies at the time included Senators like Jacob Javits and Claiborne Pell, Congressmen like Sidney Yates from Illinois, White House insiders like Leonard Garment and Presidents like John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson.
WHEN George McGovern ran for President in 1972, his campaign staff asked me to write a full-length speech on behalf of the contemporary arts -- probably an historical first (never delivered, it was still issued in an exuberant press release). When Gov. Clinton came to New York for the crucial primary in 1992, I was invited again, this time to draft a position paper on the arts in league with People for the American Way. That year the Clinton-Gore ticket adopted a progressive platform that insisted on the visual artist's First Amendment rights.
Why don't we hear or feel this passion now? Why isn't our enormous, growing collective of artists, writers and performers deluging Congress with protests over the excision of direct aid? I'm not saying the pro-arts lobby is dead in Washington. But it has waged a primarily defensive battle, in league with the sullen, resigned creative sector itself. In the teeth of the rage over the rambunctious American vanguard, our defenders on the floor of Congress have humbly conceded "mistakes" and appealed to the heavens, to civility, to tradition and to the goddess of art. In hearings before a hostile Congress during the last two years, even the few working artists, curators and museum directors called to testify have taken a similar line, mixed with assurances that local craftsmen and grandmothers are eligible for grants, too.
It's gratifying to hear that the new director of the N.E.A., Bill Ivey, fresh from stewardship of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, where meekness isn't called for, found an aroused art legion on a recent visit to the Middle West. At the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago he was pointedly told -- by Robert Fitzpatrick, its new director, among others -- that the N.E.A.'s inability to support individual artists directly has scared off critical sources in the private sector. Mr. Ivey's response was prompt: "We want to get back to the business of supporting individual artists."
What next? Mr. Ivey counseled patience. Yes, the reconversion of Congress might not occur until the next century. But the battle won't be won by hiding behind the skirts of tradition. We clearly need to hail the identifying characteristic of our culture, summed up by what the art critic Harold Rosenberg called "The Tradition of the New." You don't need a Ph.D. in multicultural studies to realize that the genius of the arts in America has always been a refusal to imitate the past. From Emerson and Whitman to Pollock and Rauschenberg (along with Thomas Edison, Steve Jobs and Bill Gates), we thrive precisely because we dare to offend gentility. Whitman was as explicit in defense of the body as a vessel for metaphor as Ms. Finley, Mapplethorpe or Mr. Serrano.
When Emerson proclaimed "Every day is a new dawn," he rang the same bell that sounds loud and clear in most of the combative art-critical polemics now written -- but not in the public arena, where its ring is rarely heard. Since this message is both powerful and logical, since it is patriotic to the core, since it justifies supporting living rather than dead artists, I can only conclude that we fail to play our winning card because we're scared half to death by the unending avalanche of insults from the far right.
"I feel like a welfare mother," the painter and conceptualist Lucio Pozzi once told me. But the welfare mothers excoriated by politicians in the 80's had no army of articulate retainers nearby. They were scapegoats during a period of enormous budget deficits. We're on the edge of a very different period. Budget surpluses are back. The long-dormant moderate wing of the G.O.P., friendly to the Endowments, is now born again. The "information industry," which depends upon creativity and imagination, is the red-hot engine of this economy. On the issue of Federal aid, "public opinion is uncertain," says the Princeton Center, "protean, and up for grabs."
Let's reach out to mold that quicksilver opinion and shake the hand of the Congress again, without apology.
Readers can respond directly to Mr. Davis by E-mail at dmd@echonyc.com
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the distribution of grants from the National Endowment for the Arts misstated the previous affiliation of the N.E.A.'s chairman, Bill Ivey. Mr. Ivey was director of the Country Music Foundation, not of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jackson Pollock with a drip painting in 1950; once he offended, now he's revered. (Rudy Burckhardt)
 
Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (91%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY SA T CEREALES ASTIGI (66%); SA T LOS GONZALEZ (66%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (87%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TRENDS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); WRITERS (67%); MUSIC (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); FAMILY (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



591 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2575 words

HEADLINE: How Mega Can a Mall Be?;
Roosevelt Field, 3.3 Million Square Feet, Wants to Expand. Some Think It's Too Big Already.

BYLINE: By TERRY CONSIDINE WILLIAMS 

DATELINE: EAST GARDEN CITY

 BODY:
THE shopping center that began in the 1950's with a few freestanding stores on a nearly vacant suburban plain and mushroomed into Long Island's largest mall has hit a wall of protest on its way to the 21st century.
Residents of nearby communities struggling with clogged traffic arteries and area businesses tired of seeing their sales dwindle have defeated plans for another addition to Roosevelt Field, now the fifth largest shopping mall in the country and a magnet for 10 million visitors a year. 
 "The Field," boasting more than 3.2 million square feet of retail space and parking garages, wanted to add a 150,000-square-foot Saks Fifth Avenue, another 34,000 square feet of smaller stores and 187,000 square feet to an existing parking garage. To do so it needed a special permit from the Hempstead Town Board of Zoning Appeals because the mall is already far beyond the legal ratio for bulk of building in relation to lot size.
"The decision was made this afternoon," Town Supervisor Richard V. Guardino Jr. said on Wednesday. "The application was denied. We decided to keep the FAR where it is."
The FAR, or floor area ratio, is the town's measure of construction density. Roosevelt Field was already far above the basic ceiling imposed by the town zoning ordinance, and had applied for another special permit that would allow it to nearly double the legal limit.
Asked his reaction to the ruling, Mr. Guardino said, "I'm glad to the extent that the B.Z.A. listened carefully to the residents in the area and was responsive." He noted that Roosevelt Field could appeal to the courts.
Bruce Torino, the Garden City village trustee who led the opposition team, said that Mr. Guardino had informed the Garden City Mayor, Harold Hecken, that the zoning board would formally reject the application at its meeting on Wednesday.
"This decision by the board confirms the conviction of the town that orderly and reasoned development must prevail," Mr. Torino said. "This decision will not adversely impact the economic viability of either the mall or Saks."
The case was a high-stakes example of the collision between pro-development forces and life style concerns, but was unusual in that quality-of-life arguments were marshaled on both sides.
Representatives of the mall's owners, the Simon Property Group of Indianapolis, had argued that the proposed expansion would contribute only marginally to congestion on nearby roads, projecting an average traffic increase of 1 percent on weekdays and 2 percent on weekends. They noted that even if Roosevelt Field were to vanish overnight there would still be plenty of traffic in the area known as the Nassau Hub, and that nearby shopping centers in the old Roosevelt Raceway area are growing at a faster clip than anything contemplated by Roosevelt Field.
And Lee P. Koppelman, the Island's leading planning authority, argued that it's better to add to an existing mall than to absorb the economic and environmental impact of building a new one.
"It's important to maintain the health of the malls we already have," he told the zoning board during two days of hearings in February and early March. "My real concern is that every new mall that is built will have an impact on the business improvement districts of various villages and towns."
The Village of Garden City, which abuts the mall but gets no direct taxes from it, leding the fight. But opposition also came from Uniondale, where Roosevelt Field's school taxes go, as well as Carle Place, Westbury, Merrick, Roosevelt, Salisbury and West Hempstead. Those represented at the hearings ranged from the Mineola chapter of the American Association of Retired Persons to the owner of the Empress Diner in East Meadow.
"Roosevelt Field and the immediate surrounding area is already too densely developed," the Nassau Council of Chambers of Commerce, representing 54 local chambers of commerce and 6,000 member businesses, wrote in opposition to the expansion. "This overdevelopment has caused a myriad of traffic congestion and other adverse impacts on the environmental and aesthetic condition of the area."
John Wallenstein, a lawyer representing the tenant of an office near the mall, framed the opponents' argument more succinctly. "It's time somebody said enough is enough," he told the board.
The initial application for the expansion, filed last June, was denied by the town Board of Supervisors because it would exceed the legal floor area ratio. But even so the opposition had to overcome formidable opposition. Simon Property Group, the owner of Roosevelt Field, is the nation's largest mall owner and has national influence. It also controls three other major malls on the Island: Smith Haven in Lake Grove, Walt Whitman in Huntington Station and the Source in Westbury, just down the road from Roosevelt Field.
Roosevelt Field employs 7,000 people, pays $73 million in state, county, town and local taxes and has a close relationship with the county's Republican leaders. The town zoning board is appointed by the Republican-controlled Town Board of Supervisors.
Mr. Guardino noted that Roosevelt Field can appeal the ruling. Two of the town zoning board's recent decisions to deny special permits were overturned by the State Court of Appeals, which found that the denial was based on generalized complaints about traffic by local residents and "generalized objections and concerns of neighboring or adjoining communities" or "community pressure." That's the type of campaign mounted by opponents of the Roosevelt Field expansion.
The developer's confidence in a favorable result seemed evident in work begun on the site of the proposed Saks addition, on the west side of the mall. Ground was broken there in January, weeks before the hearing for the special permit.
At the hearing, Herbert Balin, a lawyer for Roosevelt Field, denied that the work was site preparation, saying it was extensive utility work for which a separate permit was obtained. He also said he was greatly disturbed that anyone would think that his client would do anything illegal.
Mr. Balin's remarks did not sway Mr. Torino.
"The excavation is a clear example of the institutional arrogance of this developer, who believes he can predict the future of an event irrespective of the results of his actions," Mr. Torino said. "It's an 800-pound gorilla sitting wherever he wants."
Roosevelt Field completed its last expansion in 1997, making Nordstrom its fifth big department store and adding 50 other retail outlets and two parking garages. It now has 250 stores.
In a March 1995 hearing before the town zoning board, Mr. Balin said the Nordstrom expansion would assure the mall's future. "It is still one step away from the 21st century," he said then, "and that step is here before you today."
Mr. Balin dusted off that argument this month before the same board.
"What we're asking for here is an insignificant increase to make the mall viable for the 21st century," Mr. Balin said. "It will be a viable, wonderful center to exist for all the 21st century."
The Garden City school superintendent, Lee Wilson, was one of several people at the hearings who took issue with Mr. Balin's assurances that the expansion would be insignificant.
About four blocks from the south entrance to Roosevelt Field, at the intersection of Clinton Road and Stewart Avenue, is Stewart Elementary School. Its 600 students are bused to school even if they live across the street because traffic increases at the intersection have made walking to school "potentially dangerous," Dr. Wilson said.
"The effect is significant," he said of the Saks proposal. "Any increase in the traffic at that intersection would be a further hazard to the health and safety of the students in that school."
Since 1989, the Town of Hempstead zoning ordinance for commercial development has set a maximum construction ratio of 0.4, which meant that a building's floor area, including parking structures, could equal only 40 percent of the total area of the property. The measure was hailed by environmentalists. But later exceptions were allowed that could be granted by the town zoning board after public hearings to insure that concerns about public safety, health and welfare were met.
In 1989, Roosevelt Field was already built to a ratio of 0.529. In 1993 a second floor was added to the mall, but no exception was acquired because the new construction was offset by a 200,000-square-foot reduction in bulk through the demolition of the Petite Mall section of the center.
The 1995 special permit to build Nordstrom's stretched the mall's ratio from 0.529 to 0.696. If the latest application had been granted, it would have brought the ratio up to 0.75.
Mr. Balin contended that the ratio was never meant to apply to the mall. "The FAR was set up to curb development of office and industrial building," he said. "It was never meant to apply to shopping centers. In fact, the special exception rule was added to the zoning code because of Roosevelt Field."
When asked if that were true, Joseph Pellegrini, secretary to the zoning board, said, "That's an opinion."
Dorothy Episcopia, a director of the Eastern Property Owners' Association in Garden City, argued that the ratio has become a joke anyway. "With the seemingly endless opportunity to repeatedly apply for permission to exceed the FAR, and permission being granted, and with no maximum FAR, the 1989 amendment to the zoning code becomes ineffective," she told the board.
She and others at the hearings testified that much of the property in the 2.9 square miles of Nassau's so-called Hub, which includes the Roosevelt Field, Roosevelt Raceway, Nassau Coliseum, Museum Mile, Voice Road and Mitchel Field areas, has not yet been developed to the legal 0.4 ratio. Such anticipated development, they said, together with the remodeling of industrial buildings on Stewart Avenue into offices, should be taken into account in granting new special permits.
Bertram Donley of the Garden City Chamber of Commerce said the rights of other commercial properties could be violated by granting the application for Saks. After noting the many undeveloped industrial and retail parcels in the Hub area that can be converted legally to a more dense use, he said:
"This is a problem of last-guy zoning. By evaluating an application segmented from a comprehensive zoning plan for the region and the right of the other commercial property owners, you penalize the property owners for not exercising their rights immediately. If the congestion causes failure, those property owners may be precluded from their share of the pie.
"This kind of growth may not even be in the best interest of the other stores at Roosevelt Field," he continued. "Ultimately this concentration of use will create the retail equivalent of the Oklahoma Dust Bowl."
Mr. Torino asked Donald T. Uselmann, a vice president of Saks Fifth Avenue, if he had made any studies of whether people were being driven away from shopping at Roosevelt Field because of the crowds. Mr. Uselmann, who is responsible for 11 Saks stores from Boston to Washington, D.C., said he had not made any such studies and didn't know of any.
He said Saks hopes to triple its sales from the $17 million at its Franklin Avenue store, in the heart of Garden City, to $51 million at the proposed store at Roosevelt Field, two miles east of Franklin Avenue and just beyond the village limits.
Mr. Uselmann said sales at the Franklin Avenue store, which is being shut down, had been declining for six of the last eight years, with a 10 percent decline last year.
Officials in Garden City insisted that they were not trying to retaliate against Saks for leaving the village, and that the chain's problems at its Franklin Avenue store were no secret.
"We were sorry about Saks leaving, but not particularly surprised," said Eileen Murphy, president of the village's Eastern Property Owners Association, which represents 2,700 families, who all live near the mall. "It was obvious if you went in there that they weren't doing that much business. But we thought they would probably move to the North Shore."
"What exploded in our faces when we heard Saks was leaving was that the mall is expanding," she said.
Many opponents argued that new construction at Roosevelt Field would have to be balanced by measures to alleviate traffic congestion. Because of traffic volume, all intersections in the mall's vicinity are graded at or near F, the lowest given by the state Department of Transportation, said Garden City's traffic consultant, Michael J. Salatti of Greenman-Pedersen Inc. of Babylon.
A suggestion by the mall's traffic expert to mitigate the traffic impact by widening Clinton Road and adding a left-turn lane was termed specious by village officials, who said it had been discussed before and turned down by both the village and the county, partly because it would increase traffic at the intersection.
Mr. Wallenstein, who represents Hardy F. Glass Inc., a tenant at 600 Old Country Road, next to the mall, said his client's employees find they have to get to work by 7:30 A.M. and stay until 6 P.M. to avoid the traffic and parking snarls.
But at 7:30 A.M. most stores in Roosevelt Field are at least two hours away from opening, and the surrounding roads are filled with commuters, not shoppers.
"You can't blame that traffic on Roosevelt Field," Mr. Balin said during discussion of one intersection. "It comes from all over."
Vincent M. Iavarone, the mall's traffic consultant, said at the nine area intersections analyzed, the increase of mall expansion traffic would be less than 1 percent on weekdays and would not have a significant impact on traffic conditions.
But Mr. Salatti answered that what the applicant sees as a "drop in the overall traffic congestion bucket fails to reveal that the bucket is already full."
He quoted from the Nassau Hub Study, released a year ago by the Long Island Regional Planning Board: "The day-in, day-out congestion causes many drivers to seek alternative routes, often through residential communities, where the road network was never intended for high traffic volumes, leading to the threat (and reality) of unsafe residential streets and many accidents."
Mr. Salatti also pointed out that the Hub study's most moderate scenario for development in the area gave statistics that equated to more than 28,000 new weekday trips on area roadways. He reported current real estate listings of more than 400,000 square feet of vacant office space, available for lease in the area.
"The issue of cumulative impacts cannot be understated," he said. "In an area of oversaturation such as this, how can one properly assess the justification of a special exception project when the impacts of other as-of-right projects are completely ignored?"
But Dr. Koppelman, who heads the agency that produced the Hub Study, testified in favor of Roosevelt Field. "Any increase in development is going to increase traffic," he said, "but with this project, the percentage of increase is very, very minor. It is not entirely new traffic that will be coming into the mall. Much of it is the same traffic that is already there."
Asked if he thought Roosevelt Field was overbuilt, Dr. Koppelman answered: "It's pretty well built out. But the Saks building is only 10 percent of the square footage of the mall. They can handle it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a proposal to expand the Roosevelt Field shopping mall misidentified the court that overruled two recent decisions by the Town of Hempstead Board of Zoning Appeals. It was the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, not the State Court of Appeals.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roosevelt Field wanted to add a Saks Fifth Avenue and other stores, and ground had been broken. But faced with concerns about traffic and lost local business, Hempstead is denying a permit for the expansion. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 1); A 150,000-square-foot Saks Fifth Avenue had been proposed for the west side of the Roosevelt Field mall. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 17)
 
Chart/Map: "A Rough Ride for Roosevelt Field expansion"
Proposed expansion of Roosevelt Field shopping center and recent two-way weekday traffic volume for a 24-hour period, compared to 1990 on area roads. (Sources: Incorporated Village of Graden City; Nassau County Planning Commission)(pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROOSEVELT FIELD SHOPPING CENTER; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROOSEVELT FIELD SHOPPING CENTER; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (92%); ZONING (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ORDINANCES (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); MAYORS (68%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, TERRY CONSIDINE TERRY CONSIDINE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



592 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
The Numbers May Change, But Not the Optimism

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
ONE of these years Abby Joseph Cohen, a managing director and chief investment strategist at Goldman, Sachs, is going to change her tune about the stock market. But it's not going to be this year. Indeed, barring unforeseen developments, it seems that her largely positive view on equities will be in place in Y2K, too.
Still, Ms. Cohen turned some heads last week when she issued an updated market forecast that raised her 1999 targets for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index even as she lowered her estimates on corporate per-share operating profits. 
 On Thursday, she took some time to discuss the apparent discrepancy and other matters related to her conviction that stock prices are going higher in the months ahead.
 
Q. How can the market do better than you thought it would before, if profits aren't going to be as good as you expected?
 
A. We revise our forecasts every March, after we have had the chance to spend some time with full-year economic and profit information. Not all of the S.& P. 500 companies have finished reporting, but we had enough data to go ahead.
After we looked at the numbers, we recognized what we have been saying for several months -- namely, that our estimates of 1998 profits were too high. So, we sliced about $3 off our 1998 profit numbers. That changed our baseline for 1999, and we are now working off a lower base. At the same time, we told our clients we are feeling better about the trajectory of profits going forward based on the evidence we now have. That is largely because the global economy is starting to look better. We aren't as enthusiastic about the rest of the world as we are about the United States, but we are feeling better.
Modestly raising our price targets on the market reflects a clearer view on the next 12 months. And we think 2000 will be a good year as well.
 
Q. Many investors worry about the lack of breadth in the market, that the gains are concentrated among a few big-cap stocks. Are those concerns justified?
 
A. We have been going through a very peculiar period of time. In the spring of 1997, investors thought all was right with the world. There was a perception the global economy was doing well. During that period we had a broad market, when the small- and mid-caps performed reasonably well and the so-called value stocks were performing better.
That sense lasted for about three months, and then Thailand woke people up to the fact there is risk out there. That made people nervous, and convinced portfolio managers to stay in large liquid names that gave them the chance to get out fairly easily.
In the spring of 1998, small- and mid-cap stocks once again started to do better, and the market started to broaden again. Then came the events of August, when Russia defaulted. Those events pushed investors back into large, liquid names.
This year, if we have an environment in which the U.S. economy is steady and the global economy is getting better, not worse, that may instill investor confidence.
 
Q. That said, don't you find that a lot of the market's best-known, biggest-cap names are selling at extremely high prices?
 
A. Throughout the S.& P. 500 there are quite a few outstanding companies that deserve to be selling at price/earnings multiples that are higher than the overall market. The difficulty is identifying companies that are better values than others. In technology, for example, there is a great deal of enthusiasm for big companies. Yet I.B.M. is selling at a price that is below the market's price/earnings ratio. Another technology company selling below the market multiple is Dell. They have a terrific business model they have used on their product and are now using it to get into other product lines.
 
Q. What other sectors do you like?
 
A. Last year, we thought the strength in the U.S. economy would help cyclical stocks that would benefit from improved consumer confidence, like retailing and consumer durables like autos and personal computers. We think there will be a continuation of that this year, but the year-over-year earnings comparisons will be difficult.
The one global sector we like is energy. Last fall, we felt the energy fundamentals were bad but weren't going to get any worse. Energy companies could still lose money this year, but if they lose less it would be a boost to overall S.& P. earnings.
Bank stocks were very hard-hit in August and September, and even though they have done better they are still trading at a discount to the market. BankAmerica and Bank One are two companies that we think represent value.
 
Q. What would darken your view?
 
A. It would take real economic deterioration to upset things here. We have had market upsets, but they were not economic events. At the moment, there are no notable signs of deterioration. But we keep watching for them, like everybody else.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Market Insight column last Sunday, an interview with the Goldman Sachs strategist Abby Joseph Cohen about the prospects for the stock market, misstated the valuation of Dell Computer shares. At the time, Dell was trading at a premium to the price-to-earnings ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500; the stock was not trading below the market multiple.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Abby Joseph Cohen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (50%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ABBY JOSEPH; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



593 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2986 words

HEADLINE: Buffett of Arabia? Well, Maybe

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: CAIRO

 BODY:
HE calls them his 100 wives and honors each with a flag tacked to his office wall. Citigroup. Saks Fifth Avenue. Four Seasons Hotels. Apple Computer. Movenpick. Saatchi & Saatchi. Daewoo. Donna Karan International. Trans World Airlines. The News Corporation. Planet Hollywood. Hyundai Motor. Teledesic.
It is an extraordinary group, all the more so because this one man, Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, owns at least 5 percent of each of them -- the core of a fortune that he says is now worth $14.2 billion. 
 That represents a tenfold increase from just 10 years ago, the fruit of an investing binge that has won the Prince, now 44, renown as one of the world's sharpest stock pickers and catapulted him to a place behind only William H. Gates of Microsoft on the Fortune magazine list of the world's richest business people.
To hear Prince Walid tell it, his secrets have been judgment and fidelity -- a knack for buying low and the fortitude to stay with investments through tough times.
"When I invest in a company," he said, speaking in bursts as he downed Bedouin coffee on the back lawn of his new $200 million palace in Riyadh, "I get sentimentally attached."
However, another magazine, The Economist, recently raised questions about both the origins of Prince Walid's wealth and the extent of his investing prowess. The Prince said the suggestions of shadiness had been hurtful.
"I know that people would like to say that this Saudi prince is like all the others," he said bitterly -- an apparent reference to the royal corruption that business people and diplomats say is endemic in Saudi Arabia.
Still, in a series of interviews, Prince Walid acknowledged that one early source of his investment capital was "hundreds of millions of dollars" in "commissions" paid by foreign and Saudi businesses. Even last year, he acknowledged, such commissions accounted for $40 million of his $500 million in income.
The commissions are a form of commercial lubricant common in the Middle East, as elsewhere. A company that wants to win contracts in Saudi Arabia often hires a prince or other prominent Saudi as an agent. While executives complain that they often see very little work in return, they still pay -- out of the perception that it is difficult, if not impossible, to win lucrative contracts in Saudi Arabia without a high-level connection.
Prince Walid said the money paid to him, at least, had always been hard-earned. "This had nothing to do with influence," he said. In return for what was usually a 30 percent cut on a contract, he explained, his firm provided services that included "handling all government relations, from A to Z." Recently, with a steep falloff in the construction sector, a major source of business in Saudi Arabia, his commissions have been "nothing huge, like before," the Prince said.
In four recent conversations -- beginning at his Riyadh office, continuing a week later at his palace in the capital after a late-afternoon lunch, and carrying over into long-distance talks as he cruised the Caribbean in his yacht -- the Prince offered one further revelation about his finances:
For all his professions of faith in buy-and-hold investing, the largest single source of his income is speculative, in-and-out trading in real estate and stocks. Fully a quarter of his income last year was from such trading, he said, through a $2.1 billion account used most often to buy and sell stocks and real estate in Saudi Arabia. About $200 million to $300 million in the account is devoted to short-term trading in American stocks.
"I don't see any contradiction," Prince Walid said. "Frankly speaking, I'm all over the place -- very strong in trading and very strong in investment. But my long-term investment portfolio is untouchable."
 CLEARLY stung by The Economist's rare challenge to his reputation, the Prince volunteered a detailed accounting of his wealth. His current holdings, he said, include about $10.2 billion in long-term investments abroad, $700 million in listed Saudi stocks, $2.1 billion in other assets in the Middle East and Africa and $1.2 billion in cash that has piled up because he is "uncomfortable" with the current stock market, regarding it as "definitely overvalued." (The speculative fund, he said, is made up of portions of the latter three categories.)
His start as an investor was buying and selling Saudi real estate, not buying and holding stocks. In 1979, when he was 24, the Prince said, he mortgaged a house given to him by his father to come up with $400,000 in capital.
In the 1980's, he said, real estate investing accounted for 65 percent of his income, with an additional 10 to 15 percent coming from commissions. By 1989, his net worth had grown to $1.4 billion.
Though it was not until late 1990 that the Prince turned to stock investing outside Saudi Arabia, with a dramatic bailout of Citicorp, some $9.2 billion of his wealth today is in publicly traded stocks. Indeed, it is his success in finding undervalued public companies, and his gutsiness in betting on them with vast amounts of cash, that have earned the Prince a reputation as the Warren E. Buffett of Arabia.
Some of his long-term investments, in companies like Netscape Communications and Apple Computer, have indeed produced breathtaking gains. An analysis by his advisers at Citibank of his holdings in publicly traded companies since 1991 found an average annual internal rate of return -- a complex figure that accounts for cash flows as well as appreciation -- of 35 percent.
"Throw in other investments, and that figure rises by another eight percentage points," Prince Walid said in a letter to The Economist. (The Prince said he had been told recently, for example, that his initial investment of $80 million in Canary Wharf, the London real estate project that has lately turned from a debacle into a triumph, would soon be returned to him in cash, still leaving him with a roughly $4.3 billion stake.)
Even so, stripping away his single best investment, Citicorp, in which the Prince put nearly half his money in 1990 and 1991, the returns on his stock portfolio have been much less impressive.
Since 1992, he has invested some $1.9 billion in other publicly traded stocks -- including big gainers like the News Corporation but also big losers like Euro Disney. At the close of trading on Thursday, those stocks were valued at $2.9 billion, including his holdings in Canary Wharf Group, which made its initial public offering that day. The gain translates to an average annual return of 7.3 percent, far below that of the major market indexes.
The Prince says any calculation that excludes his Citi holdings is unfair, because he has made a conscious decision to keep the financial services company -- called Citigroup since Citicorp merged last year with the Travelers Group -- as more than 65 percent of his stock portfolio.
In any event, thanks to Citigroup and other good investments, the overall surge in the Prince's fortune has been phenomenal, and he bridled at The Economist's characterization of his record.
"True, my performance might not be quite as good as Warren Buffett's, as you note -- nobody's perfect," he wrote in his letter to the magazine, which was published in The Economist's March 20 issue. "You may find this 'disappointing,' but I can assure you that quite a few of your readers would be more than content with consistent returns like this."
(Shares in Mr. Buffett's investment vehicle, Berkshire Hathaway, have gained an average of 29.4 percent annually since 1992, a figure not readily comparable to the internal rate of return that the Prince's bankers provided to Money & Business at his request.)
Regardless of how much his wealth might have been built on what critics regard as feudal tributes, the Prince is seen by most Saudis as an exception in a country whose royal family is sometimes accused of greed and sloth. And within the royal family, he is regarded as an outsider.
His father, Prince Talal bin Abdel Aziz, a son of Saudi Arabia's founder, King Abdel Aziz ibn Saud, was a leader in the early 1960's of a group known as the Liberal Princes, who openly differed with King Faisal, then the country's leader. Prince Walid spent part of his childhood in Lebanon with his maternal grandfather, Riad al-Solh, modern Lebanon's first Prime Minister. Now, like every other grandson of King Saud -- they number in the several hundreds -- the Prince receives a monthly royal stipend of $15,000.
The Prince is hard-working, even driven. In accordance with Muslim teachings, he does not drink, smoke or gamble. He also does not invest in tobacco or alcohol stocks; he has extensive holdings in hotels but insists that the portion of his income generated from drinking, smoking or gambling in those establishments be placed in a separate fund and contributed to charity.
Prince Walid said he felt no similar qualms about profiting from his investments in banks, which earn money by charging interest, a practice prohibited under some interpretations of Islamic law. "I do not believe that banking and charging interest is against religion," he said.
 HIS schedule, which he said was unyielding, lists a precise time for everything: wake-up at 10 A.M., exercise 15 minutes later, office hours from 11 A.M. to 4 P.M, a family lunch and rest from 4 to 7 P.M. He returns to work from 7 P.M. to 2 A.M., exercises again, has dinner and observes dawn prayers before retiring at 5.
The late hours let him keep track of the American stock market, with Wall Street closing at midnight Saudi time, and to follow nocturnal habits of work that are common in Saudi Arabia, where businesses and government offices close in the afternoon heat.
Indeed, for a man who counsels patience in investing, Prince Walid displays little in his daily life.
"I despise sleeping, really," he said, sitting cross-legged on a carpet in his football field-sized back yard, whose manicured lawn, free-form pool, Tiki torches and restaurant-style dining area suggest a Four Seasons resort. "I think it's a period where your brain goes stagnant."
In conversation, the Prince is direct but also restless; even in mid-conversation, his eyes flick to one of the oversized television sets always placed nearby, tuned to the Cable News Network, CNBC or the Arabic Television Network, which he partly owns. At lunch, around an outdoor table set for 20 people, the Prince sat alone, with the nearest guest several seats away, and spent most of the meal on the telephone.
For at least eight months, he said, his stock portfolio has remained unchanged; he has seen no reason to buy shares at inflated prices and has been disinclined to sell. Indeed, the last time he sold any of his long-term holdings was in 1993, when he had to reduce his Citibank holdings by one-third to meet the Federal Reserve's restriction on the percentage of an American bank that can be owned by a foreign investor.
Still, his most frequent calls, he said, are to the man who handles his stock investments -- an American, Michael R. Jensen of Citibank's private banking operation in Geneva. And twice a day, the Prince pores over one-page updates that summarize his holdings and track an additional 12 stocks that he will not name but that he has singled out for possible acquisition if their prices fall. These companies share a few characteristics -- notably the potential for ample long-term growth.
He singled out autos as a sector that no longer held much of his interest, though he retains stakes in Hyundai and Daewoo of South Korea and Malaysia's troubled Proton.
"I believe the industries should not be too cyclical and not facing a meltdown," the Prince said. "By definition, we invest in firms that are doing badly."
The Prince was educated in the United States, at Menlo College in Atherton, Calif., and at Syracuse University, where he earned a master's degree in social science. He speaks fluent English and was an avid soccer and tennis player until a back injury forced him to turn to swimming. He is single, after two divorces. "I fall in love, basically, with my companies," he said, "and because I have no wife, that makes sense."
But he is also very much a traditional Saudi, and at work, he wears a thobe, the traditional Arab garment, and headdress. He has insisted that his 22-year-old son be educated in Saudi Arabia, principally as a shield against what Prince Walid calls the "great temptations" in America "to do things that are against religion."
Still, he wanted his son to have an American education and has arranged for the University of New Haven in Connecticut to send professors to Riyadh to teach courses from its regular curriculum to the young man and five of his friends; he intends to do the same for his daughter, who is 18.
 HE is proud of his charity; he says that in an average year he gives $100 million in cash gifts to the poor, to mosques and to Saudi development programs that buy generators and build bridges for remote villages.
"It is a religious duty," he said. "No. 2, it is my duty as a rich man. And No. 3, it is my duty as a member of the royal family."
Among his guests at lunch, a meal prepared by Lebanese chefs and usually including eight main courses, are five impoverished and usually elderly women selected each day from among those to whom he has given money in answer to personal appeals. Veiled, the women sit at a separate table and are later visited by the Prince.
His Riyadh office, headquarters of his Kingdom Holding Company, has a staff of 30. And on call around the world are outside advisers -- from Citibank, which handles his investments; Arthur Andersen, which handles accounting; Saatchi & Saatchi, which handles publicity, and Hogan & Hartson, his law firm in Washington.
"Our goal is to work smart, not hard," he said of his decision to contract out much of his work. In two separate conversations, he also pointed out that the first initials of his four advisory firms spell "cash."
His home and possessions shout the same message. The new palace, with at least five wings, includes an indoor pool in an atrium the size of a jumbo-jet hangar. Vast areas are set aside for his children and for the 150 servants who provide around-the-clock attention. A separate, private sports complex is reached by a tunnel that runs under a public street.
The Prince, who moved in just last month, said the palace sits on 35,000 square meters of land, or 8.6 acres -- five times the size of his old palace complex just down the street, which he has set aside for his son. He also owns a helicopter, three jets (including a 727 and a 767) and a huge yacht whose previous owners included Adnan Khashoggi, the Saudi financier; Donald Trump, and, briefly, the Sultan of Brunei.
The Prince's early investment in Citicorp -- in 1990 and 1991, when the bank's future was in doubt -- now accounts for almost half his wealth. But some critics say the investment also represents his weakness: that he may not be a good judge of when to sell. Citigroup is down 15 percent from its peak.
The Prince defended himself vigorously against the assertion. He noted that Citigroup recovered sharply in recent months from last fall's lows, adding that if he had succumbed to advice to sell Citi shares as the market plummeted, he would have lost hundreds of millions of dollars.
"Obviously at the right place and the right time, I'm a seller," he said. "But you have to choose the right time."
Asked if he was afraid his portfolio might have already peaked in an overheated market, he demurred. "I don't think we have really milked the cow completely," he said. "I believe there is more potential for these companies to grow."
Certainly, some of his recent investments in technology and media companies have produced dizzying returns. In March 1997, he bought 5 percent of Apple for $115 million; last week, the investment was worth $211 million. Later that year, he bought 5 percent of Netscape for $145 million. With America Online's acquisition of Netscape this month, that holding was worth more than $500 million.
The Prince acknowledged that he has also picked his share of what have been losers -- "so far." His worst investment? Planet Hollywood, the theme restaurant chain into which he has sunk an estimated $100 million since April 1997. Last week, he said, the investment was worth just $21 million. Other losers, he said, include his 24 percent stake in Euro Disney and his 3 percent of Proton.
Still, the Prince said he remained as loyal to his weaker holdings as to those with better returns -- and as determined, if not more so, to help expand their businesses. He said he uses only Motorola phones (he owns 1 percent of the company) and stays only in Four Seasons and Movenpick hotels. He may develop as many as 44 Planet Hollywood restaurants in Europe and the Middle East. He even says he plans to replace the Mercedeses and Volvos in his personal fleet with cars made by Hyundai and Daewoo.
 THE strongest impression left by Prince Walid is of his fierce pride in his decisions. One recent day, he thumbed through printouts from The Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times and The International Herald Tribune, all downloaded from the Internet long before the papers reached Saudi newsstands.
A Journal article about Mr. Buffett's latest letter to shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway caught the Prince's eye. Mr. Buffett, the article said, acknowledged to investors that they would have been better off last year if he had spent his afternoons at the movies, instead of buying and selling parts of his portfolio. The implication could be drawn that Mr. Buffett was thinking, among other things, about his sale of much of his stake in Travelers -- and hence in its successor, Citigroup.
Prince Walid passed the clipping to a visitor. "Buy and hold," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of editing errors, an article last Sunday about the financial holdings of Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia misstated the performance of some of his investments. His initial $80 million investment in Canary Wharf, a London real estate development, had grown to $218.2 million through March 25, not to $4.4 billion. In addition, the annual rate of return on the Prince's investment portfolio cannot be readily calculated from information he has released; the rate cited in the article for a portion of the portfolio was based on incomplete information.
The article also misstated the source of a list of the world's richest business people, as well as the Prince's place on it. The list was from Forbes, not Fortune, and the Prince ranked 10th, not 2d.
The article and an accompanying chart misstated the extent of the Prince's holdings in the News Corporation. He owns 5 percent of the company's preferred shares, not 5 percent of the company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, who has amassed $14.2 billion from business and investments, tracks his holdings from an office in his $200 million palace in Riyadh. (Lex Ballantyne for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Surveying His Financial Realm"
Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia has amassed a $14 billion fortune through a mix of public and private investments spanning five continents. The returns are those that his bankers reported to the Prince at midnight Thursday; returns were not disclosed on some of his private holdings. Some smaller holdings and the charts for the other continents are not shown.
 
NORTH AMERICA
 
America Online+ -- +175.4%
$516.0 million -- 4%
 
Apple Computer+ -- +36.9%
$210.8 million -- 5%
 
Citigroup+ -- +38.4%
$6.3 billion -- 5%
 
Donna Karan+ -- -33.5%
$10.8 million -- 7%
 
Fairmont Hotel*
$209.8 million -- 50%
 
Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts+ -- +24.0%
$303.0 million -- 25%
 
Motorola+ -- +15.1%
$341.2 million -- 1%
 
Norwegian Cruise Lines -- 5%
 
Planet Hollywood+ -- -76.8%
$20.4 million -- 16%
 
Plaza Hotels -- +42.7%
$60.8 million -- 42%
 
Saks+ -- +13.2%
$80.5 million -- 6%
 
Teledesic -- +60.3%
$294.8 million -- 16%
 
Trans World Airlines+ -- -27.1%
$11.1 million -- 5%
 
*Multiple holdings; returns vary.
+Publicly traded outside Saudi Arabia.
 
Princely Income
How does a buy-and-hold investor generate an income of roughly $500 million a year? According to Prince Walid, the biggest share of his earnings actually comes from short-term trading.
 
Short-term trading in stocks and real estate -- $130 million
Dividends from publicly traded stocks outside Saudi Arabia -- $108 million
Dividends from publicly traded stocks in Saudi Arabia -- $60 million
Private investments in Saudi Arabia -- $55 million
Interest on cash -- $50 million
Private investments, including real estate, outside Saudi Arabia -- $45 million
Commissions on business deals in Saudi Arabia -- $40 million
Royal stipend -- $180,000
 
(Sources: Citibank; Prince Walid)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); HYUD (LSE) (58%); 005380 (KSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (72%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (58%); FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (58%); DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: WALID BIN TALAL (PRINCE); JEHL, DOUGLAS PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (92%); BILL GATES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



594 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Cheap Oil Focuses Minds

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: VIENNA

 BODY:
WHEN Arabs united in 1973 to slap an oil embargo on the United States because it had supported Israel, the international oil cartel known as OPEC fell into line and shock waves reached every continent. In 1979, Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini launched a second oil shock when he telegraphed his consuming wrath at the "Great Satan" by slashing oil production in half. Again, the political passion behind the action drew OPEC's cooperation. Oil prices quadrupled in months.
But for the next 20 years, the oil producing countries fell into disunity, losing their ability to panic the world by boosting oil prices at will. 
 Last week, all of that seemed to change -- or at least OPEC tried to give that impression -- as OPEC's members rediscovered the appeal of political unity. Pushing aside technocrats and oil ministers who wanted production kept high, they decreed a cut in production of about 3 percent. They hope this will lift the rock-bottom prices to which oil has fallen in recent years, savaging the economic hopes of once-haughty countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela.
Why now? The answer, in large measure, is in the political climate. Back in the 1970's, a measure of anti-American sentiment could be counted on in virtually all of the Middle East, which dominated OPEC. Then, in the 1980's and 1990's, divisions among the Middle Eastern oil producers (and alliances with the United States after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait) became much more important, even as new non-OPEC oil production came on line in Alaska and the North Sea.
But now a new political factor is at play -- the political cost of low oil prices. This is uniting OPEC's members, overcoming at least some of their rivalries, and attracting new allies like Norway and Mexico.
The price fall has been so steep that it has become, in the words of an OPEC minister, "a matter of state." The 11 countries of OPEC saw their collective revenues from oil drop by a third last year. Oil companies have laid off hundreds of thousands of workers worldwide as their profits sank by 40 percent last year.
In Mexico, Nigeria, Venezuela, Algeria, and even in the world's largest oil producer, Saudi Arabia, shrunken budgets are straining social and political cohesion. Even in the United States, oil companies dismissed 50,000 employees last year and American oil production fell by 500,000 barrels a day to a new low of 5.9 million.
Driven by this unraveling, foreign ministers and heads of state from Saudi Arabia, Iran, Mexico, Algeria, Norway and Russia engaged last January in a whirlwind campaign of phone calls and meetings.
The result was a carefully choreographed meeting in Vienna, lasting less than an hour, to announce a 2.1 million-barrel-a-day reduction in the world's oil production for a year. This comes on top of an earlier reduction last year of 3 million barrels a day.
"How long this super-oil producers' alliance will last is anybody's guess," said Gary Ross, chief executive officer of Petroleum Research Industry Associates in New York. "But this is a very aggressive agreement."
Indeed, the agreement has the blessing of the large multinational oil companies, which find themselves in the position of wishing the cartel good luck. Ironically, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries owes its creation 40 years ago to the political passions of the post-colonial era, in which developing nations sought to wrest control of their oil resources from "big oil." Now OPEC members are courting these companies to come back, invest money, take equity and pump oil.
The new alliance may last longer than skeptics believe because of the confluence of interest among OPEC, non-OPEC countries and oil companies.
The social and political pain created by low oil prices has made for some surprising bedfellows, the most interesting being Iran and Saudi Arabia, who are the world's first- and second-ranking producers. Traditional oil rivals and bitter enemies, the neighbors now have new leaders, and they have been groping toward a new relationship. The ascension of Mohammed Khatami to the Presidency of Iran and the rising power of Crown Prince Abdullah in Saudi Arabia as the ailing King Fahd slips into the background have brought two pragmatic figures to the fore.
For the prince, the notion of having two powerful enemies, Iraq and Iran, nearby was becoming intolerable at a time when lower revenues had forced Saudi Arabia to cut defense spending by some 22 percent. And the fall in revenues had weakened Mr. Khatami's hand in his tug-of-war with sterner clerics who disagree that Iran should interact more with the outside world.
O NE result of these two leaders' efforts to talk was that Saudi Arabia moved away from a production level of 8 million barrels a day that it had considered nearly sacrosanct since 1990. And Iran stopped obstructing a deal within OPEC by agreeing to a cut of 300,000 barrels a day.
Once this was worked out by their foreign and oil ministers, the deal was sealed in telephone negotiations in which other OPEC members and Mexico, Norway and Venezuela were brought on board.
As always, there are wild cards in this deal. One is forlorn, angry Iraq, which said it would not take part. Under the United Nations' oil-for-food sanction regime, Iraq has nearly tripled its oil production in the last year to 2.7 million barrels a day. The Iraqis say they will continue to pump more oil, but their ability to do so may be limited by their inability to get cash and spare parts.
There is also the temptation for many of poorer countries to break ranks once oil prices start to rise. And there is the Asian economic crisis, which may keep demand for oil down.
But OPEC says if more cuts are needed, it will decree them. And its members say they have learned the lesson of drowning oil markets in oil.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the new-found unity of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries misstated Iran's ranking among the world's leading oil producers. It ranks fourth; it is not among the top two.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Low oil prices strengthen OPEC by forcing members to overlook their differences. Above, a Saudi oilfield. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); ALGERIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; SAUDI ARABIA; UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); ALGERIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; CARTELS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CARTELS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



595 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Lucienne Bloch, Muralist, Is Dead at 90

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Lucienne Bloch, an acclaimed muralist whose most significant contribution to art may have been a series of surreptitious photographs she took in 1933, died on March 13 at her home in Gualala, Calif. She was 90.
She was the photographer whose sneak pictures taken behind enemy lines on May, 8, 1933, are the sole visual record of the great Diego Rivera's ill-fated Rockefeller Center fresco with its doomed depiction of Lenin. 
 At a time of economic distress, when capitalism itself seemed vulnerable to competing currents of social change, if anybody was going to pin Lenin on a capitalist wall it was Diego Rivera, the fiery Mexican muralist whose artistic acclaim was matched only by his reputation as a fiercely committed, if renegade, Communist.
If anybody was going to stop him it was John D. Rockefeller Jr.'s son, Nelson A. Rockefeller, who had commissioned Rivera to paint a 1,000-square-foot fresco, "Man at the Crossroads," in the great hall of the new RCA Building, the soaring Rockefeller Center capstone now known as the G.E. Building and at the time an especially potent symbol of capitalism.
Sure enough, when it became apparent that Rivera was intent on portraying Lenin as a charismatic leader, Rockefeller asked him to substitute an anonymous figure, and Rivera refused.
Realizing his work was doomed, Rivera hired a photographer to take pictures of the mural, but Rockefeller, determined that there be no record of what the family regarded as desecration of their property, had guards at the building thwart the effort.
Aware that the mural would be sealed off the next day, the Rockefellers could be complacent, but only because they had not reckoned on Miss Bloch, an unpaid Rivera assistant who seemed an unlikely foot soldier in his anti-capitalist cause.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
There, Miss Bloch studied sculpture at the Ecole des Beaux Arts and made a yearlong side trip to the Netherlands, studying at the Leerdam glass works and turning out such impressive glass sculptures that she had a one-woman show in New York in 1931 and was invited by Frank Lloyd Wright to teach at his Wisconsin school.
By then, however, she had become fascinated by another art. Shortly after her arrival in New York in 1931, she was invited to a banquet honoring Rivera in connection with his famous one-man show at the Museum of Modern Art. Largely because Rivera spoke little English and no one else spoke Spanish, the 22-year-old Miss Bloch, who spoke French, a language Rivera also knew, was seated next to the great man.
During their animated conversation, a dark-haired woman came up behind Miss Bloch and said, "I hate you," a comment of such disarming candor that Miss Bloch burst out laughing. The woman was Rivera's wife, the tortured artist Frida Kahlo, whose husband's philandering gave her reason to fear the worst, but not, as it happened, from Miss Bloch.
As the the daughter of a womanizing father, Miss Bloch made clear, she had no designs on Kahlo's womanizing husband, a pledge that laid the groundwork for a remarkable friendship.
Over the next few years, Miss Bloch worked on Rivera's controversial mural at the Detroit Institute of Art and on the Rockefeller Center project, along the way falling in love with the artist's chief plasterer, Stephen P. Dimitroff, a young Bulgarian immigrant, and immortalizing their romance in lyrical passages in her diary, which a granddaughter, Lucienne Allen, plans to use as the basis for a book.
The couple, who eventually married, became an artistic team, he handling the plaster and she the painting for frescoes all over the country, including her most acclaimed work, "The Evolution of Music," at George Washington High School in upper Manhattan.
They lived for a time in Flint, Mich., where he became a union organizer and she photographed strikes for Life and other publications, before eventually moving to Mill Valley, Calif., where Mr. Dimitroff, who died in 1996, operated a frame shop until the couple retired to Gualala in 1965.
After a lifetime devoted to art, including wide-ranging sculptures in glass, wood and terra cotta and a famous series of photographs of Kahlo, Miss Bloch is nevertheless largely recalled for her association with another artist's work, but, then, the artist was Rivera, widely regarded as a 20th century giant, and her photographs are all that remain of his most famous work.
For that, Miss Bloch, who is survived by two sons, George Ernst Dimitroff of Tumwater, Wash., and Pancho Dimitroff of Aurora, Colo; a daughter, Sita Milchev, of Gualala; a sister, Suzanne Bloch Smith of New York; 8 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren, had only herself to blame.
It was she, after all, on the night after Rivera's hired photographer had been thwarted, who slipped a camera under her blouse and walked boldly into the RCA building with Mr. Dimitroff and Kahlo, who distracted the guards while Miss Bloch climbed up on the scaffold and proceeded to photograph the mural.
The next day, in what has been likened to a military operation, the mural was shrouded from public view.
Nine months later, after the resulting furor had subsided, it was scraped into oblivion -- almost.
Rivera did a copy in Mexico City, complete with Lenin, but it is only Miss Bloch's photographs that show it as it was -- on a Rockefeller wall.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the muralist Lucienne Bloch on March 28 misspelled the given name of her father. He was Ernest Bloch, not Ernst.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Miss Bloch's photograph of the Lenin portrait in Diego Rivera's mural at Rockefeller Center provided the only visual record of the work. (Lucienne Bloch, 1933); Lucienne Bloch with her mural at George Washington High School. (1937)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (71%); SWITZERLAND (68%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (71%); SWITZERLAND (68%); FRANCE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); CHILDREN (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%); 

PERSON: BLOCH, LUCIENNE; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR JAY ROCKEFELLER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



596 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 28, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1889 words

HEADLINE: First Master of the Universe

BYLINE: By Richard Lingeman; Richard Lingeman, a senior editor of The Nation, is the author of "Theodore Dreiser: An American Journey," and is writing a biography of Sinclair Lewis.

 BODY:

MORGAN
 American Financier.
 By Jean Strouse.
 Illustrated. 816 pp. New York:
 Random House. $34.95. 
 After reading Jean Strouse's voluminous biography of J. Pierpont Morgan, with its thoroughgoing accounts of his business ventures in the crucible stage of American capitalism, the era between the Civil War and World War I, one is left with a multitude of rounded impressions of this powerful but enigmatic figure. There is the great consolidator of wastefully competing railroad lines and industries, the "apostle of order,"who believed, as the business historian Edward Kirkland wrote, that "the incalculable must give way to the rational, strife to cooperation." Then there is the consummate international financier, organizing syndicates to float immense bond and stock issues that gave birth to companies like A.T.& T., General Electric and United States Steel. And the prodigious collector who spent some $60 million (approximately $900 million in today's dollars) on paintings, sculptures, rare books and manuscripts and all manner of precious objets d'art. And the benefactor of St. George's Episcopal Church (where he had a radical minister installed), New York Lying-In Hospital (which he reportedly subsidized to care for pregnant mistresses -- Strouse scoffs at this rumor), the Metropolitan Museum of Art (to which he did not leave his fabulous collection because the museum failed to authorize a special wing for it in his lifetime), Harvard Law School and the Morgan Library.
Strouse's solidly researched biography draws, she informs us, on an enormous archive of Morganalia that previous biographers hadn't the temerity to crack. She debunks many of the errors propagated by both hagiographers and muckrakers and elucidates in ample detail Morgan's financial maneuverings (readers without an interest in business and financial history may find some of this material wearisome). The House of Morgan erected the financial superstructure of the most prominent American industries in the Gilded Age, beginning with the railroads. In the press Morgan was garlanded with grandiose sobriquets -- the field marshal of industry," the "financial Moses of the New World," the "railroad Bismarck." But to populists and radicals who spoke for the struggling farmers in the West and the South, and to the laboring men and women in factories and sweatshops, he was the "great Financial Gorgon" who personified the oppressive power of Wall Street that would crucify mankind on a cross of gold.
That image was serendipitously caught in a photograph by Edward Steichen in which the financier, asked to change his position, glares at the camera with intense ferocity, "As his body disappears in the blackness," Strouse writes, "the light catches only his head, the watch chain, and his hand on the gleaming metal arm of his chair: this last detail looks like the blade of a dagger, and Morgan appears about to stride out of the frame slashing -- the ruthless capitalist pirate of popular myth." Not entirely mythical in my view.
Steichen's portrait conveys an idea of the smoldering power of the man -- an imperious, domineering figure in richly cut clothes, with massive body and Jovian head, baleful eyes and a chronically diseased nose, like some purplish fleshy fungus. He was blessed with considerable physical stamina; he lived to the age of 75, and despite his sybaritic life style he rode his younger partners into the ground -- and sometimes under it. He imperiously ordered bank presidents to do what he thought was necessary to quell a financial panic, and they usually fell in line like reluctant schoolboys.
During the financial panic of 1907, when the nation's chronic gold shortage triggered a run on the undercapitalized trust banks, Morgan took charge. The challenge was to prop up the trust banks before they toppled like a row of dominoes. To this end, he assembled the leading bank presidents in his library and at some point locked the door. At 4 A.M. his lawyer read them an agreement stipulating how much each must pledge to the bailout package. Morgan laid it on his desk and told Edward King of the Union Trust: "There's the place, King, and here's the pen." King signed, as did the others.
Morgan transacted great schemes from Olympian heights. When he decided to buy the Carnegie Steel company on the way to forming United States Steel -- in 1901 the largest corporation in the world -- he told Andrew Carnegie to name his price. Carnegie wrote down $480 million on a single sheet of paper. Morgan glanced at the paper and said, "I accept this price." "Pierpont Morgan is apparently trying to swallow the sun," marveled Henry Adams.
What really drove him, psychologically, Strouse can only infer from the testimony of others. Morgan's was a secretive personality, partly out of shyness, though he was not shy about taking credit for saving the country on several occasions. He had the banker's traditional reticence, part of the mystique of the priesthood. Once, under grilling by a Congressional committee, he was asked why he had become involved in the purchase of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, in which the House of Morgan acquired securities yielding only one-eighth of 1 percent. "For the very reason that I thought it was the thing to do," Morgan said, and that was that.
Morgan was an inarticulate man with no interest in explanations or introspection. Strouse comments: "His authority -- in his office, over railroads, in the world's capital markets -- came not from what he said but from what he did." He took responsibility but demanded complete authority. He insulated himself from people who thought differently and was deaf to the agrarian protest movements that flared up during the 1880's and 1900's.
Some of Morgan's traits are strongly reminiscent of those the sociologist David Riesman ascribed to the inner-directed character, who is guided by an internal compass and a strong superego. The chief influence on him was undoubtedly his father, Junius S. Morgan, head of J. S. Morgan & Company in London. Morgan p<heart>re groomed Pierpont from boyhood to take over the business. He tirelessly drilled home the lesson that a banker's most important business asset among his peers was "character" -- a reputation for honesty and square dealing.
Pierpont never ceased to honor his father, Strouse makes clear. One wonders if a chronic fear of failing to live up to paternal demands could account for the fits of depression he was subject to throughout his life. In the throes of melancholia, he would moan that "the best thing would be for me to give up myself -- I don't feel good for much anyway." In addition, he had been sickly as a child, suffering mysterious ailments that gave him "a hypochondriacal sense of frailty all his life." Strouse theorizes that the reason he never had his disfigured nose -- the result of a skin disease called rhinophyma -- surgically modified was that he harbored an obscure fear that if he did so he would somehow be subject to the seizures he had experienced in childhood. The many women in his life didn't seem put off by it, though his money surely helped ease their qualms. He was married twice. His first wife died young; his second wife, Fanny, bore him four children, including the heir apparent, J. P. Morgan Jr. But Pierpont tired of her and sought consolation elsewhere, as was the way of men of his class. Strouse focuses on only two main mistresses, women of sophistication and means, while admitting he was an "indefatigable Don Juan." His librarian, the spunky Belle Greene (one of the livelier characters in a book populated by bankers; of African-American parentage, she passed as white and presided over his library), complained that "every woman who comes within a mile of J. P. immediately loses her head. . . . They flock to him all day long in rapid and sickening succession. Each one pluming her feathers and thinking she is the hen pheasant, when in reality she is forgotten before her successor appears."
Morgan was also a voracious collector of art, statues, rare books and manuscripts. Strouse quotes the French critic Jean Baudrillard, who wrote of the kind of collector who wishes to "stand alone surrounded by exquisite objects like the 'sultan of a secret seraglio.' "Morgan's artistic and financial drives may have been rooted in the same sexual dynamic, like Theodore Dreiser's fictional hero Frank Cowperwood in "The Financier."
If the mysteries of Morgan's inner psyche remain dark, Strouse has clarified the public career and swept away some of the mud slung at him by previous biographers who drew their information from hostile contemporaries. The cool dispassion of her elegantly modulated prose, the evenhandedness of her sources, tends to muffle the hostile, populist roar against Morgan. Yet she does not seek to exculpate her subject; in the end the moral she seems to draw from his career is that "the country's economic welfare could no longer be left to private bankers. . . . Morgan's extraordinary authority endangered the public welfare."
Morgan's marriage and his personal religion, which assured him that Christ had obligingly atoned for his sins, provided a sanction that left him feeling "perfectly justified in whatever he chose to do" in his private life, as one descendant of a Morgan intimate tells Strouse; similarly, the prevailing social Darwinian ethos justified his belief that whatever was good for Pierpont Morgan was good for the country. When he intervened to damp down a financial panic, it was always in the higher interest of economic stability and saving the jobs of millions. But his enemies charged him with manipulating the market for his own ends; even Teddy Roosevelt blamed the "malefactors of great wealth" for the panic of 1907.
Strouse shows that this, like many of the charges flung at Morgan in the heat of controversy, was overstated, though it was not entirely untrue either. Morgan's fingers were constantly in the financial pie. She amends the record to show that Morgan's syndicate, which handled the 1895 bond issue that brought European gold flowing back into the Treasury's near-empty coffers, collected nowhere near the $5 to $18 million in fees that the press reported. But the point that should be stressed is not so much the inaccuracy of the figure; it is that the financial rescue package Morgan devised was totally in the service of his financial interest in tight money policies. That is, the rescue profited the House of Morgan and the foreign investors it serviced. During the gold crisis, he telegraphed colleagues who had gone to Washington ahead of him: "We consider situation critical, politicians appear to have absolute control." He meant Congress, which favored easing the money supply and selling bonds in a public offering. To Morgan, the representatives of the people were annoying obstacles, and the interests of the financial class ranked far above those of the mass of working people. When Morgan died, there was no one to replace him; his time had passed. The United States went off the gold standard and the Federal Reserve took control of the money supply. But although control in Wall Street is more diffuse, the interests of the financial class Morgan so assiduously served remain paramount today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. Pierpont Morgan and his second wife, Fanny, in middle age.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MORGAN: AMERICAN FINANCIER (BOOK)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AT&T GENERAL BUSINESS SYSTEMS (56%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HISTORY (77%); SCULPTURE (76%); BONDS (74%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); PAINTING (72%); WORLD WAR I (72%); SWEATSHOPS (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGAN, J PIERPONT (1837-1913); STROUSE, JEAN; LINGEMAN, RICHARD JEAN STROUSE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999



597 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: China's Natural Course

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman (column, March 23) is correct that the outright containment of China is bad policy. Indeed, China is headed in the direction of political liberalization, and a healthy relationship with the West, particularly the United States, will only enhance this process. 
 Political change in China is inevitable as long as economic growth continues.
A prosperous economy will increase the influence of the National People's Congress, which has served as an effective counterbalance to the old-guard leaders of the Central Communist Party and the People's Liberation Army.
As reform-minded technocrats like Prime Minister Zhu Rongji and President Jiang Zemin gain in power, the regressive thinkers that still wield so much power in Beijing will slowly die off. All China needs to encourage reform is a gentle push; the rest will happen naturally.
 
DAVID LEVY
Brooklyn, March 25, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (53%); 

PERSON: LEVY, DAVID; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999



598 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Latin America Safer for Journalists

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: MONTEGO BAY, Jamaica, March 23

 BODY:
As dictatorships disappear from the map of Latin America, leaving Cuba as a holdout, violence against reporters has dropped correspondingly, to 23 journalists killed last year from 41 in 1989.
At the same time, as democratic institutions have taken root in Latin America's big cities, violence against reporters has shifted to the region's redoubt of authoritarianism, the rural areas, according to advocates for press freedom gathered here for a meeting of the Inter American Press Association. 
 "It is far more dangerous to be a reporter in a small town -- you are far more vulnerable," said Robert J. Cox, chairman of the association's press freedom committee. The shift comes as reporters in Latin America's interior increasingly try to follow the independent reporting of their big-city colleagues.
In Colombia, which in the last decade has recorded the highest number of killings of journalists in the Americas, 8 of the 12 reporters killed in 1998 were from small cities or rural areas, according to the press association.
"A lot of these terrorist acts come after reporters in these little cities denounce political and administrative corruption," said Enrique Santos Calderon, an editor of Bogota's largest daily, El Tiempo, and the press association's Colombian representative for 15 years. "The new agents of violence are guerrillas and paramilitaries. Journalists who live in zones of guerrilla or paramilitary infiltration are completely intimidated."
The same pattern was noted in a report just issued by the Committee to Protect Journalists, a New York-based group.
"Most of the journalists killed in 1998 were small-town or rural-based reporters who appear to have been targeted by corrupt local officials," said the Latin America section of the committee's 1998 annual report. "The public outcry over the murder of prominent journalists has made it safer for those working for major publications. But substantial risks remain for reporters who work for less visible outlets."
"The question is: How do you extend this protection to rural areas?" Joel Simon, the committee's Americas coordinator, asked here.
To do that, press defenders are adopting tactics familiar to a big-city police chief. A rapid-reaction team of investigative reporters is being formed to respond immediately to every report of a murdered journalist in the Americas. To reduce impunity for these crimes, the team will travel to crime scenes, interview police officers and prosecutors, and conduct regular, follow-up visits, the Inter American Press Association said. "They will immediately go to the country, talk to the police chief, and then follow up one month later," said Alberto Ibarguen, publisher of The Miami Herald and director of the project.
In addition, to help focus attention on the problem, press advocacy groups are expanding into interior regions of Latin America, setting up E-mail networks and spreading information on press rights. "Every newsroom in the smallest newspaper in Latin America now has E-mail communication," said Mr. Simon. "Sometimes, I have gotten information from rural Brazil, before the newspapers in Rio or Sao Paulo."
With the spread of democracy in Latin America, repressive action against reporters has largely shifted from government to individuals or unofficial groups, the major exception being Cuba.
Since the start of this year, Cuban police agents have detained and interrogated independent reporters on 25 occasions, a sharp increase, according to the press association. Currently, six Cuban reporters are in jail. Two more, Jose Edel Garcia Diaz and Jesus Diaz Loyola, were last seen in Havana on Feb. 25 and are listed in the report as "disappeared."
Press advocates attribute this to Government nervousness about the worsening economy and President Fidel Castro's discomfort with a new breed of independent reporters who are supplying reports to news organizations outside Cuba.
In the 10-year period that ended in November, the press association said, Cuba recorded the highest number of journalists forced into exile, 21, and the highest number of foreign journalists barred entry, 105. In the category of expulsions of foreign journalists, Cuba was second, with 17, after Panama with 18.
Separately, the Committee to Protect Journalists, put Mr. Castro as the only national leader in the Americas on its list of "Enemies of the press: the 10 worst offenders of 1998."
"Despite implicit promises to Pope John Paul II that there would be greater room for freedom of expression, Castro continues his control over all media outlets and his harsh treatment of independent journalists, who are routinely detained, arrested, and beaten, or forced into exile," Mr. Simon wrote. Noting a new press law intended to intimidate independent Cuban journalists, he added, "A serious deterioration of press freedom in Cuba has taken place."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Human rights advocates who assembled on the United Nations Charter anniversary were confronted in a Havana park late last year by opponents also meeting there. (Jose Goitia/Canadian Press)
 
Chart: "Dangerous Occupation"
Over the last decade, journalists covering upheaval in Latin America, particularly in Colombia, have often been targets of violence themselves.
 
Country -- Colombia
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 43
 
Country -- Peru
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 17
 
Country -- Brazil
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 10
 
Country -- El Salvador
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 10
 
Country -- Mexico
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 10
 
Country -- Guatemala
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 4
 
Country -- Argentina
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 2
 
Country -- Venezuela
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 2
 
Country -- Chile
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 1
 
Country -- Ecuador
Journalists killed since 1989 --
 
Country -- Honduras
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 1
 
Country -- Panama
Journalists killed since 1989 -- 1
 
Country -- Paraguay
Journalists killed since 1989 --
 
TOTAL -- 103
 
(Source: Commitee to Protect Journalists) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (93%); JAMAICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%); 

COMPANY: INTER AMERICAN PRESS ASSN PRESS ASSOCIATION LTD (57%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER AMERICAN PRESS ASSN UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; COLOMBIA; CUBA; LATIN AMERICA (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (93%); JAMAICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS FREEDOM OF PRESS (95%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (63%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES JOEL SIMON (59%); FIDEL CASTRO RUZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999



599 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 29, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: FOOTLIGHTS

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:

EVENTS
 
A Certain Style
 
Russian posters, illustrated books, journals, sheet music, popular prints and other printed matter, as well as costume and stage designs, form a comprehensive new exhibition at the Jane Vorhees Zimmerli Art Museum at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. Drawn from the National Library of Russia and the Research Museum of the Russian Academy of Fine Arts, both in St. Petersburg, and from collections in the United States, "Defining Russian Graphic Arts: From Diaghilev to Stalin, 1898-1934," continues through June 30. Information: (732) 932-7237. 

Out-of-Towners
 
It is debut time for a couple of actors whose names happen to be Richard Dreyfuss and Marsha Mason. They will give their first London performance beginning tomorrow, when they open at the Theater Royal Haymarket in the West End premiere of "The Prisoner of Second Avenue," Neil Simon's comedy about an unemployed middle-class New York advertising executive, his wife and their neighbors. "The play opened in New York in November of 1971," Mr. Simon said recently. "I could have written it about the New York of 1999. With giant mergers of corporations, thousands of employees have lost their jobs. Paper-thin walls of apartment houses bring every sound of your neighbors into your bedroom. Nervous breakdowns must have been around since the Renaissance. The more we change, the more we stay the same." Information: 011-44-171-930-8800.
 
High Hopes
 
The comedian Robert Klein will serve as host tonight when the singers Denyce Graves, David Garrison and David A. Dorsey perform at the Merkin Concert Hall in "Music and Friends, an Intimate Concert to Benefit the Harlem School of the Arts." Also performing will be students from the school, founded 35 years ago for aspiring artists from minorities. Proceeds will match a $70,000 grant from the Hayden Foundation for a scholarship program in the arts for students ages 11 to 15. Information: (212) 926-4100, extension 306.
 
A Player's Life
 
Dame Judi Dench's busy calendar is getting fuller. Besides March 21 (accept Academy Award for best supporting actress) and April 3 (open at the Barrymore Theater in David Hare's "Amy's View"), there is May 17 (accept the the Shakespeare Guild's Gielgud Award for Excellence in Dramatic Arts at the Barrymore). With Robert MacNeil as host, the presentation by last year's recipient, Zoe Caldwell, also celebrates the 435th birthday of Shakespeare, and the 95th birthday of Mr. Gielgud. Information: (212) 685-1095. LAWRENCE VAN GELDER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: PRISONER OF SECOND AVENUE, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: ZIMMERLI ART MUSEUM (NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ); HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS; SHAKESPEARE GUILD 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZIMMERLI ART MUSEUM (NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ); HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS; SHAKESPEARE GUILD RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; THEATER; MUSIC; MOTION PICTURES; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS THEATER (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (79%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); FILM (77%); MERGERS (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); LAYOFFS (67%); DISMISSALS (67%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); 

PERSON: SIMON, NEIL; KLEIN, ROBERT; DORSEY, DAVID A; GARRISON, DAVID; GRAVES, DENYCE; DENCH, JUDI MARVIN NEIL 'NEIL' SIMON (70%); MARSHA MASON (56%); RICHARD STEPHAN DREYFUSS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999



600 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: International Venture to Offer On-Line System for Businesses

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 26

 BODY:
In an effort to move more business-to-business purchasing transactions to the Internet, a pioneer in the field plans to announce partnerships on Monday with two giant international telecommunications carriers to create a global trading network.
Commerce One, a small software company in Walnut Creek, Calif., plans to announce partnership agreements with Nippon Telegraph and Telephone and British Telecommunications intended to enable businesses to use the Internet to automate the purchasing process. 
 Commerce One, which already has a relationship with MCI Worldcom in the United States, has developed software systems that enable companies to transform their purchasing interactions into real-time trading networks.
Such systems have long been envisioned by proponents of so-called electronic data interchange, or E.D.I., systems, which were intended to replace purchase orders and bills of laden with on-line digital documents. But the emergence of the Internet as a global standard in the last five years has vastly accelerated the pace of change.
"It's quite clear that this is the future," said Jay M. Tenenbaum, chief scientist of Commerce One. "After 20 years, about 100,000 companies are using E.D.I. systems. But the fact is that more than a million companies are on the Web."
At the heart of much new Internet business-to-business commerce activity is a computer-to-computer translation language known as XML that is being rapidly adopted by many companies, from start-ups to corporate giants like I.B.M. and Microsoft. XML simplifies and automates the process of business-to-business interaction.
Commerce One executives say that the company's new partnerships will sharply increase the efficiency of doing business internationally.
"N.T.T. is going to work with major players in Japan," said Mark Hoffman, the chairman and chief executive of Commerce One. "Now it is possible to reach all of the big suppliers in Japan in one fell swoop."
Analysts said that Commerce One had built a leading position as a result of its strategy.
"Commerce One has ended up being in the catbird seat," said Stan Dolberg, an analyst at Forrester Research, a research and consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. "They are well down the road to figuring out that this is the killer application."
As part of their agreements, both NTT and British Telecom will deploy a Commerce One software program known as Marketsite. The software is meant to automate the steps of selecting, ordering, processing, shipping and paying for products.
Commerce One executives called theirs an "open" commerce system, meaning that it is possible to participate either by purchasing software from Commerce One or a rival, or by creating the software independently, Mr. Tenenbaum said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); NTT (NYSE) (58%); NPN (LSE) (58%); 9432 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE ONE (CO); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP; BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE ONE (CO); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP; BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS INTERNET & WWW (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); XML (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); RETAILERS (59%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN JAY M TENENBAUM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

 
