

1 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: CONSUMERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: On Auto Dealer Lots, a Shift Away From Gas-Guzzling Vehicles

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: SYLVANIA, Ohio, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Michelle Rable was in the middle of car shopping on Wednesday morning when she stopped to fill up her Pontiac Aztec, a sport utility vehicle, with gas -- at $3.09 a gallon. 
 That was enough to get Ms. Rable, a registrar at a local college, to spend her lunchtime test-driving the hybrid gas-electric Prius at a Toyota dealership. She was all but sold. 
 ''When you walk up and see that sticker that says 60 miles per gallon, you can almost say, 'I can live without that S.U.V., ''' Ms. Rable, 35, said as she stood next to a metallic blue Prius. ''At $3.09, it just hits home.''
 If Ms. Rable buys the Prius, which she said she was leaning toward doing, she could drive roughly three times as far on one gallon of gas as she could in her Aztec, which gets relatively good gas mileage for an S.U.V. With gas prices at record highs amid the volatility Hurricane Katrina has created in the oil markets, more consumers appear to be taking Ms. Rable's approach to car shopping.
 Less than a half-mile down the strip of car dealerships that line West Central Avenue in this town just outside Toledo, Angie Motylinski examined the sticker on a new Ford Five Hundred. The sticker listed 21 miles per gallon in the city and 29 on the highway, better fuel economy than the Ford Explorer that she now leases but has to give up soon. 
 ''I really want my Explorer back, but I'm thinking about not getting it because of gas prices,'' Ms. Motylinski, 45, a bank teller, said. ''If they gave me an awesome, awesome deal on an Explorer, I might consider it. But who's going to want it when gas is $3.19 a gallon?''
 Nationwide, consumers are gradually shifting away from buying large S.U.V.'s and toward smaller, more fuel-efficient S.U.V.'s and cars. General Motors, whose brands include the truckmakers Chevrolet, GMC and Hummer, said this week it did not expect sales of large S.U.V.'s to return to the record high levels of the past, in part because of high gas prices. Dealers here said they had seen a marked increase in customers trading in their S.U.V.'s for something smaller. 
 ''If I had a dollar for every time that somebody said I'm looking for something with better gas mileage, I'd be a wealthy man,'' said Bill Roemer, the manager at a Chevrolet dealership here, who said his truck and S.U.V. sales had fallen as prices at the pump increased. ''With gas prices the way they are, people just aren't looking at minivans, S.U.V.'s, trucks.'' 
 Mario Said, the general manager of a Ford dealership here, said that the vehicles generating the most interest from his customers were smaller ones like the small Escape S.U.V., the compact Focus and the midsize Freestyle. He said more buyers were switching to those vehicles as they realized high gas prices were not likely to go away anytime soon. ''Customers are now making it a consideration in their buying habits where they weren't before,'' he said.
 Even among drivers who cannot live without their S.U.V.'s, some are compromising as fuel costs continue to rise. Heather Dusseau, 18, was completing the purchase of her first new vehicle on Wednesday, a four-cylinder Escape. She could have gone with the six-cylinder, but she said she wanted to save money on gas. Her four-cylinder will give her three more miles a gallon. 
 Ms. Dusseau, a waitress, considered bigger S.U.V.'s like a Dodge Durango or a Jeep Grand Cherokee. ''But it costs like $50 to fill up the tank,'' she said.
 She added that the smaller Escape would be cheaper in the long run. ''I think gas will probably stay the same or go up. I don't think it will go down.''
 Idell Watson, 53, was filling up her Acura MDX, an S.U.V., on Central Avenue on Wednesday and watching the meter tick higher and higher. At $3.19 for unleaded plus, she pumped in about three-quarters of a tank for $40. She said it normally cost her about $48 to fill the tank. 
 ''It's ridiculous,'' Ms. Watson, a homemaker, said. ''I even thought about catching the bus to some of the things I do.'' 
 Not everyone is heading for the hybrids just yet, though. Does she wish she had bought something a little more fuel-efficient? 
 ''I don't regret it,'' Ms. Watson said without hesitating. ''I love it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Angie Motylinski leases a Ford Explorer and likes it, but she is looking for a vehicle that get better mileage, like the Ford Five Hundred. (Photo by Bridget Barrett for The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (52%) Automobiles; Sales; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



2 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 796 words

 BODY:

Prices Surge and Spot Shortages Appear As Hurricane's Effects Reach Gas Pumps
Days after Hurricane Katrina dealt a devastating blow to the nation's largest energy hub, the worst-case possibility was quickly becoming a reality: gasoline prices surging well above $3 a gallon, consumer complaints of price gouging and service stations in a handful of locations running out of gas. The White House said it would release emergency oil stockpiles to meet shortages and would relax environmental standards nationwide. [Page A1.]

After one of the worst storms ever to hit the Gulf Coast, large parts of the nation's distribution system had shut down, slowing down imports and exports. One result could be that American consumers will be paying more for everything from coffee and bananas to paint and tires. [C1.]

From as far away as Massachusetts and Ohio, convoys of utility trucks and reinforcement workers are descending on the storm-damaged region to restore electricity to the estimated 1.7 million household and business customers still without power. [C1.]

Landline and wireless phone service across the Gulf Coast from New Orleans eastward has been largely cut off, and work to restore it is going to take weeks, if not months. [C7.]

Drivers Begin Turning Away From Big S.U.V.'s
Consumers nationwide are gradually shifting away from large sport utility vehicles toward smaller, more fuel-efficient S.U.V.'s and cars. [C6.]

Chase to Buy Credit Card Business of Sears Canada
 J.P. Morgan Chase agreed to purchase the credit card business of Sears Canada for 2.4 billion Canadian dollars in cash and the assumption of 1.1 billion Canadian dollars in debt. [C4.]

Client Switches Account, Dealing a Blow to Interpublic
The troubled Interpublic Group of Companies was dealt a serious blow when one of its largest clients, Bank of America, dismissed Interpublic and shifted its consolidated account, with total spending estimated at $600 million, to the Omnicom Group. The account shift is one of the largest in advertising in recent years. Interpublic has been plagued by financial and operational problems since 2002. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C3.]

Hedge Fund Company's Brokerage Arm Draws Attention
Over the last two and a half years, Bayou Securities, the brokerage unit of Bayou Group, the Connecticut hedge fund company at the center of a growing investigation, generated $51.5 million in revenue executing trades for its four affiliated hedge funds. Such revenues seem excessive for a small firm like Bayou, hedge fund experts said. [C1.]

Stocks Climb After Fed Official Comments on Rates
Stocks climbed yesterday, rising after the president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve signaled that the central bank could change its interest rate policy in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Falling oil prices also helped stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 68.78 points, to 10,481.60. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.92 points, to 1,220.33, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 22.33 points, to 2,152.09. [C11.]

MasterCard Plans to Take Itself Public
MasterCard announced plans to pursue an initial public offering that could value the credit card company at more than $10 billion. [C1.]

F.D.A. Approves Drug for Children's Growth
The Food and Drug Administration gave approval to the first new drug in 30 years for the treatment of abnormally short stature in children. It is the first drug approved for Tercica, a biotechnology company based in Brisbane, Calif. An estimated 6,000 children in this country have the specific condition for which the F.D.A. approved the drug, although some doctors expect it to be more broadly prescribed to children with less severe growth abnormalities. [C5.]

As health officials worked to avoid another flu vaccine shortage like that in the 2004-5 season, regulators approved a flu shot from GlaxoSmithKline, and a Chiron vaccine plant in Liverpool that was shut last year because of contamination moved closer to being opened. [C5.]

Google Moves Offline, Into Print
Google, which built a lucrative business in online advertising, is buying ad space in magazines and filling it with half a dozen ads from clients of its vast online system. The first incarnation of Google's program resembles an old-fashioned business known as ad brokering. [C3.]

Government Pegs 2nd-Quarter Growth Slightly Lower
Economic growth was a touch weaker in the second quarter than first thought, the Commerce Department said. Gross domestic product grew at a revised 3.3 percent annual rate in the April-June period. [C5.]

Company Accuses Apple of Violating Software Patent
Creative Technology Ltd., a maker of portable music players, has accused Apple Computer of violating a newly granted software patent that covers the way users navigate music selections. [C17.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Tercica share prices since June, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (84%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (79%); GAS STATIONS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (67%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); SEARS CANADA INC (54%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (83%); OMC (NYSE) (82%); JPM (NYSE) (67%); JPM (LSE) (67%); 8634 (TSE) (67%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); SCC (TSX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (67%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); NAICS444130 HARDWARE STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



3 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: FEDERAL RESPONSE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: Administration Steps Up Actions, Adding Troops and Dispatching Medical Supplies 

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Reporting for this article was contributed by Eric Lichtblau, Eric Lipton, David D. Kirkpatrick, Scott Shane and Eric Schmitt.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
The Bush administration stepped up the federal response on Wednesday to the devastation from Hurricane Katrina, deploying thousands more National Guard and active-duty troops to the Gulf Coast to help with rescue and relief missions, authorizing the release of oil from the nation's strategic reserve to blunt the economic effects of the storm and dispatching food, water and medical supplies to the region.
 President Bush returned to the White House from his vacation home in Texas to oversee the effort, getting a view of the damage en route as Air Force One altered its flight path to take him on a low-altitude pass over New Orleans and other stricken areas in Louisiana and Mississippi.
Speaking later in the Rose Garden after meeting with a task force he convened to review the plans, Mr. Bush promised that immediate efforts to save lives and provide shelter to the people displaced by the storm would be followed by a long-term program to rebuild. 
 ''We are dealing with one of the worst natural disasters in our nation's history,'' Mr. Bush said. ''This recovery will take years.'' 
 Earlier, the administration announced that the storm had been designated an ''incident of national significance,'' triggering the enactment of the emergency response plan developed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to deal with large-scale disasters. It is the first test of the system, which puts the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, in charge of coordinating the federal response, and brings together military and civilian capabilities under one umbrella.
 Some federal assistance had already reached the region on Wednesday, including beefed-up search and rescue teams and emergency medical personnel. More aid, including food, water and temporary shelters, is to arrive over the next few days. 
 But with the situation in the region chaotic and still evolving, it was unclear how quickly and fully the plan would address the needs of the hundreds of thousands of people displaced by the storm and the ensuing flooding, or whether it would prove sufficiently large and well executed to deal with the long-term challenges the disaster presents.
 In the hourlong meeting at the White House with his hurricane task force, Mr. Bush and his aides discussed at length the looting and other law enforcement problems in New Orleans and other areas, a senior administration official said. The official, who would not be identified because it was a closed meeting, said Mr. Bush and his aides reviewed all the options available to them, including using federal authority to give military personnel a direct role under the president's command in restoring order, and had been in touch with state officials in Louisiana about their needs.
 The administration took no action to augment the current use of National Guard troops, under state control, to assist local law enforcement efforts. Paul McHale, assistant secretary of defense for homeland security, told a news briefing that the administration did not expect to invoke the president's authority to use active-duty military forces for law enforcement, but that the Pentagon had troops on alert in case they were needed for that purpose.
 Congressional leaders said they were preparing to pass emergency spending legislation as quickly as possible after Congress returns from its summer break next week, though they did not try to estimate what the cost might be. 
 The crisis represented another challenge for Mr. Bush, who is already grappling with the violence in Iraq, concerns about energy costs that were skyrocketing even before the storm and falling poll numbers. 
 In cutting short his vacation and showing a quick federal response, Mr. Bush made it clear again that he had studied the mistakes of his father, who was widely criticized in 1992 as responding too slowly to Hurricane Andrew in Florida. Among the aides working alongside Mr. Bush on Wednesday was his chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr., who in 1992 led the task force set up by President George H.W. Bush to respond to the damage from Hurricane Andrew.
 The potential problems for the nation extend beyond those in the region affected directly by the storm. The Energy Department began approving requests for the release of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to help supply gasoline refineries, and it loosened pollution rules on gasoline nationwide to help increase the supply. But oil prices remained at elevated levels, and retail gasoline prices, under pressure from both the rise in crude oil prices and the squeeze on refining capacity, surged past $3 a gallon in some areas. 
 The administration immediately sought to tamp down concerns that the damage would substantially harm the economy, with the White House's economist, Ben Bernanke, and the commerce secretary, Carlos Gutierrez, both saying the economy could withstand the effects of the storm. But economists said it was too early to gauge whether the storm's effects on energy prices, consumer confidence, inflation expectations and other factors would harm the economy nationwide.
 The federal response extended across the government. After dispatching naval ships and maritime rescue teams to the region late on Tuesday to help with search and rescue efforts and medical needs, the government on Wednesday substantially expanded the military component of the response. Nearly 30,000 National Guard and active-duty service members will pour into the region by the weekend in what Pentagon officials said would be the largest and longest domestic relief mission ever undertaken by the military. 
 In the next 48 hours, some 10,000 Army and Air National Guard members from 13 states will flow into Mississippi and Louisiana, more than doubling the 7,500 Guard members already called to duty in those two states hit hardest by the storm, said Lt. Gen. H Steven Blum, head of the National Guard Bureau. About 3,500 Guard members have been activated in six other states, including Alabama and Florida. 
 About one-third of these 21,000 Guard members now in place or preparing to deploy to the four-state region are military police to help combat looting and help restore order. Some 7,200 service members on active duty, mostly sailors aboard seven ships off the coast of New Orleans or steaming to the Gulf of Mexico from the Eastern Seaboard, are moving in to provide food, water, ice, medical supplies, communications equipment and rescue assistance. 
 The Pentagon is also dispatching at least 60 helicopters to assist in search and rescue missions and haul heavy cargo. Hundreds of military engineers will clear debris-choked roads to allow residents to leave and relief supplies to flow in. Hundreds of high-wheeled, five-ton trucks that can traverse floodwaters are on the way. With communications disrupted in much of the region, the Idaho National Guard is rushing hundreds of hand-held radios to the region. Troops will help evacuate residents and provide food and shelter.
 ''Right now, we're worried about law and order, food and water, and medical supplies,'' General Blum told reporters at the Pentagon. In a brief interview later, he said, ''I have no doubt this will be the largest and longest relief operation we've ever been involved in.'' 
 Indeed, Pentagon officials said that the number of active-duty and National Guard troops and the amount of equipment and supplies were almost certain to increase as relief officials completed more detailed damage assessments and began rebuilding efforts. 
 A senior Army officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that 3,500 soldiers of the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort Bragg, N.C., equipped with some 30 helicopters, were prepared to deploy on short notice if needed. 
 Pentagon officials said they expected the National Guard troops to remain under the control of their state governors, but their activities will be coordinated by a three-star Army general, Russel Honore, who is leading a special command set up at Camp Shelby, Miss., to coordinate the National Guard and active-duty military operations with other federal relief efforts. 
 General Blum told reporters that every state except Hawaii had committed National Guard troops and equipment to a recovery effort that federal officials said would take months, if not years, to complete. 
 At a news conference, Mr. Chertoff said, ''The magnitude of this challenge is enormous.'' 
 Officials at the Homeland Security Department and other federal agencies said they were convinced that the work done since 2001 to better prepare the nation for a possible terrorist attack was helping in this catastrophe as well, speeding the delivery of relief and other aid and, perhaps most important, improving the coordination of the more than a dozen federal agencies involved in the effort. The Federal Emergency Management Agency had five logistics centers in the United States before its merger with the Homeland Security Department; it now has 65.
 ''This is an exam for everything we have done since 9/11,'' said James Jay Carafano, an expert on domestic security and a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization.
 Under the plan, the government swung into action on many fronts. FEMA said it had contracted for 455 buses to move the thousands of refugees in the Superdome in New Orleans to the Astrodome in Houston.
 Since the storm hit, the Homeland Security Department has also deployed 39 disaster medical assistance teams and 18 urban search and rescue teams. Coast Guard helicopters have rescued more than 1,250 people, many from roofs in New Orleans, where the water was still rising on Wednesday.
 The Department of Health and Human Services has delivered 27 pallets of medical supplies from stockpiles that were first set up after 1999 and then expanded after the 2001 attacks. The equipment, which includes bandages, suture kits, stethoscopes and portable oxygen tanks, is being used to set up a mobile hospital at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge.
 At the news conference at Homeland Security headquarters in Washington, officials from the Department of Transportation said they had already shipped 13.4 million liters of water, 10,000 tarps, 5.4 million meals, 3.4 million pounds of ice, 144 generators and 135,000 blankets, among other essential supplies. And that is just the start of the supplies.
 Congressional leaders promised quick action to pay for the relief efforts and the cleanup and rebuilding. The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, and the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, said in a joint statement that they would ''make an aid, relief and support package for the victims of Hurricane Katrina our highest priority.''
 Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, said she had asked Mr. Hastert to call a special session of Congress before its scheduled return on Tuesday. ''Given the scope of this disaster, I believe that Congress should return to Washington immediately and pass a bill this week to provide the assistance needed,'' Ms. Pelosi said.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)Chart: ''Many Agencies, One Purpose''The disaster relief effort for Hurricane Katrina involves many federal agencies and the American Red Cross.FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCYMichael D. BrownUnder secretary, Homeland SecurityHas sent in disaster medical teams and urban search-and-rescue teams.COAST GUARDThomas H. CollinsCommandantHas called 550 reservists to active duty and sent ships and aircraft.NATIONAL GUARDTerry L. ScherlingBrigadier generalMore than 31,000 members are assisting local law enforcement.DEFENSEPaul McHaleAssistant secretaryProviding military personnel and search-and-rescue teams.AGRICULTUREMike JohannsSecretaryProviding food and helping with debris removal.TRANSPORTATIONNorman Y. MinetaSecretaryHelping set up alternate transportation routes around damaged areas.TREASURYJohn W. SnowSecretaryPostponing taxes and suspending late penalties.HEALTH, HUMAN SERVICESMichael O. LeavittSecretaryEstablishing emergency medical facilities. Working to eradicate mosquitoes in the area to prevent disease.LABORElaine L. ChaoSecretaryOccupational Safety and Health Administration is helping utility workers trying to restore power.ENERGYSamuel W. BodmanSecretaryReleasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATIONHector BarretoAdministratorMaking emergency loans available.HOMELAND SECURITYMichael ChertoffSecretaryOverseeing coordination of relief efforts.AMERICAN RED CROSSBonnie McElveen-HunterChairwomanMore than 53,000 evacuees are using 258 shelters. Also is sending in tons of supplies.ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCYStephen L. JohnsonCommissionerSuspending some rules for making gasoline so it can be produced more easily.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (92%); HURRICANES (91%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (77%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); HISTORY (67%); PARAMEDICS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States Armament and Defense; Rescues; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Strategic Petroleum Reserve; Looting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%) National Guard (US)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



4 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE PORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: A Distribution System Brought to Its Knees

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Chicago for this article and Claudia H. Deutsch from New York. Jeff Bailey contributed reporting from Chicago, and Melanie Warner from New York.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
As ports remained closed from Louisiana to Florida on Wednesday, some 300 barges containing grains and other products were left homeless. 
 Under the management of Cargill, a large agriculture producer and exporter, the barges were caught in a bottleneck caused by the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. Now they are floating on rivers north of New Orleans with nowhere to go.
Two days after one of the worst storms ever ravaged the Gulf Coast, large parts of the nation's distribution system were feeling the effects. Major transportation arteries were clogged, and imports and exports had slowed to a crawl. The logistical logjam could delay the production of hundreds of everyday products. The result is that consumers, even those far from the storm's epicenter, might have to pay more for everything from coffee and bananas to paint and tires. 
 Many of the Cargill barges, for example, were loaded with corn, soybeans and wheat, for shipment out of the country, before the storm struck early Monday. 
 With the harvest season for grain less than a month away, grain processors said they were concerned over how long shipping would remain constrained before they must begin their busiest export time of the year, to Europe and Asia.
 Grains are the largest export likely to be affected by the devastation to the ports, because they are so dependent on the river barge system. In July, about half of the country's grain exports were shipped from the Mississippi River gulf outlet, said David D. Lehman, managing director for commodities at the Chicago Board of Trade. ''Those facilities are all without power and could be impacted by the flooding,'' he said.
 ''If this is a 5- to 10-day problem, it won't significantly impact the grain markets,'' Mr. Lehman said. If it is longer, then importers will start switching to buying from other ports, mostly likely along the West Coast.
 But with gasoline and diesel prices being sharply affected by the loss of refining capacity caused by the storm, shifting to other ports will create costly logistical complications that will probably be passed to consumers in the form of higher prices, shipping firms said.
 David Feider, a spokesman for Cargill, said it was ''not feasible'' to divert grain shipments to trucks or trains because of the high cost and the loading infrastructure required. 
 Imports are not faring any better. Shippers were scrambling to arrange alternative ports for incoming shipments of oil, chemicals and steel additives. Millions of pounds of coffee remained in storage in New Orleans. ''Everything is at a standstill right now,'' Mr. Feider said. 
 Government officials struggled Wednesday to assess the scope of the damage to the port of New Orleans.
 Coast Guard officials said that they were finishing underwater surveys of shipping channels. So far they have found an unusual amount of soil and sand build-up, and a number of buoys and other navigational aides either missing, destroyed or misplaced, creating the potential for ships to run aground, said Petty Officer John Miller, a Coast Guard spokesman. Some ships struggled with the question of whether to divert to other ports.
 The Port of Houston Authority said it was receiving inquiries from carriers about possible diversions. A cargo ship laden with rubber and timber, originally slated to make calls at New Orleans and Pascagoula, Miss., was diverted to Houston Wednesday night, the port authority said.
 Chiquita Brands International said it had no choice but to reroute shipments of bananas and other fresh produce to ports like Freeport, Tex., and Port Everglades, Fla. Chiquita's facilities in Gulfport, Miss., which last year handled about 25 percent of its banana imports to the United States from Central America, were too damaged to receive shipments, the company said.
 Meanwhile, companies struggled to get products out of New Orleans. More than 700,000 bags of coffee, each weighing 132 or 150 pounds, remained in storage in New Orleans, said the Chicago Board of Trade.
 Procter & Gamble said it suffered a heavy loss of coffee production. About half of its Folgers brand of coffee comes out of New Orleans. The facility has been shut since Saturday, and Doug O. Shelton, a Procter spokesman, said the company had no idea when it could reopen. ''We're still in the process of trying to re-establish contact with the people who worked in the area,'' he said.
 In recent years, ports in Long Beach, Calif., and in the Pacific Northwest became so congested that some companies began importing container shipments of consumer products directly from Asia to gulf ports to more easily distribute to customers in the South and Midwest. 
 Wal-Mart opened a mammoth distribution center outside Houston this summer as part of a direct-import strategy. Christi Gallagher, a spokeswoman for the company, said that while two distribution centers were affected by the storm, the Houston facility and Wal-Mart's many other distribution centers spared the company any major disruptions. 
 Others were not so lucky. Damage was so heavy at one of DuPont's largest titanium dioxide plants, which supplies whiteners and brighteners to paint and coatings manufacturers, and to a plant that makes a chemical precursor to the polyurethane foams used in car dashboards and appliances, that the company has invoked legal clauses used to shield itself from liabilities when it inevitably has to renege on some supply contracts.
 ''It's too early to say how much we've lost, but we've had extensive flooding,'' said Kelli Kukura, a DuPont spokeswoman. 
 Truckers are also feeling the effects. Shipments in and out of the New Orleans region represent about $1 million a day for Yellow Roadway, a $10 billion trucking company, ''and since commerce in the area has pretty much stopped, it will affect those revenues,'' said William D. Zollars, the chairman. 
 But Mr. Zollars is more concerned about costs than revenues. Yellow Roadway has 20 terminals in the area. ''Our terminal in New Orleans has been reduced to a concrete slab, and with communications so bad, we don't know how much damage we've had at others,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Boats were left high and dry near Pascagoula, Miss. Elsewhere, hundreds of barges carrying grains and other products were left stranded. (Photo by Chris Zuppa/St. Petersburg Times via European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C7)Chart: ''A Hub Becomes a Choke Point''New Orleans and the surrounding area is a major hub supplying energy products to other parts of the country. It also serves as a transportation center handling farm products and other commodities delivered on the Mississippi River and by railroad.Pipelines: Gasoline and other liquid products carriedCOLONIAL PIPELINE: 2.3 million barrels a dayPLANTATION PIPELINE: 620,000 barrels a day(All routes are shown schematically)Almost half of the country's oil refinery capacity is concentrated on the Gulf Coast.PERCENT OF COUNTRY'S CAPACITY IDLED BY KATRINA: 13%Graph: ''Gulf of Mexico oil production''As a percentage of total U.S. productionshows that a growing share of domestic oil production comes from the gulf.PERCENT IDLED BY KATRINA: 91%Imported container goodsMillions of tons, '04FOREST PRODUCTS: 5.2%ALUMINUM: 7.3%NATURAL RUBBER: 6.6%COFFEE: 3.4%OTHER: 23.4%IRON AND STEEL: 54%Exported container goodsMillions of tons, '04OTHER: 25.5%CHEMICALS: 29.7%ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS: 25.9%FOREST PRODUCTS: 18.9%(Sources by The Port of New Orleans
Energy Information Administration
Colonial Pipeline Co.
Plantation Pipeline
 Minerals Management Service)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); HURRICANES (77%); COFFEE (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); RIVERS (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); WEATHER (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); GASOLINE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); FUEL MARKETS (69%); DIESEL FUEL (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (61%) United States Economy; Barges and Scows; Grain; Ports; Shutdowns (Institutional); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Corn; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Diesel Power; United States Economy

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (59%) Cargill Inc

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (66%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (66%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Claudia H Deutsch; Jeff Bailey; Melanie Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Louisiana; Florida; New Orleans (La); Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



5 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Mohawks Ask Pataki to Approve a Catskill Casino That Was Stalled 5 Years Ago 

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
In what supporters see as a last-ditch attempt to bring an Indian casino to the Catskills, the St. Regis Mohawks and a gambling company are reviving plans to build a $500 million Las Vegas-style gambling operation at the Monticello racetrack.
 The proposal follows a long line of casino plans that have foundered upon Albany's political disputes, court rulings and Congressional opposition to the proliferation of Indian casinos.
 But while this casino project still faces a political gantlet, the Mohawks and the gambling company, Empire Resorts, say that they may have found a way around all the obstacles that have doomed the hopes of half a dozen tribes seeking to build casinos 90 miles northwest of New York City. 
 Because it won initial federal approval in 2000, they said, this casino plan does not require approval by the State Legislature or Congress, and is not tied to complex tribal land settlement. All it needs, they say, is the backing of Gov. George E. Pataki, who has long said that he favors gambling in former resort areas like the Catskills.
 Two Mohawk chiefs, whose reservation straddles the Canadian border, notified the state in an Aug. 2 letter that the tribe wanted to move forward with the proposed casino at Monticello Raceway.
 Chiefs Barbara A. Lazore and Lorraine M. White told Mr. Pataki that the tribe was willing to comply with many of the state's demands: it would resolve sales tax issues, provide Sullivan County with $15 million a year in impact fees and give the state up to 25 percent of slot machine revenue.
 ''The governor certainly has the ability to make this casino a reality and to bring thousands of jobs to Sullivan County,'' Chief White said. ''We encourage him to do so.''
 Members of the governor's staff have met with tribal representatives in recent weeks, and a state official said that Mr. Pataki was reviewing the matter. Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki, did reiterate the governor's longstanding position. 
 ''Casino gaming would provide a major economic boost, bringing new jobs, new visitors and spurring new private-sector investments to the region for the people of Sullivan County and the Catskills,'' she said.
 George T. Skibine, an assistant secretary of economic development for Indian affairs at the Department of the Interior, said that the dormant proposal for a Mohawk casino at the racetrack could be revived if the governor sent a letter concurring with his agency's findings in 2000 that the casino would be good for both the tribe and Sullivan County. 
 Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the State Assembly, and Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader in the Senate, said that it was up to Mr. Pataki to approve the latest Mohawk proposal, since he has the authority to negotiate three casino deals in the Catskills under legislation approved in 2001.
 Despite the apparent support for a Mohawk casino, construction is not necessarily going to begin anytime soon, if ever. Gambling in the Catskills has been a political roller coaster with unending twists and turns, and the racetrack is no exception.
 Empire Resorts and the Mohawks have been partners before. In the 1990's, the tribe and the company, formerly known as Alpha Hospitality, proposed building a casino on 29 acres at the racetrack. Although casino gambling is illegal in New York, it is permitted on Indian-owned land.
 But days after the Interior Department granted the project tentative approval in 2000, the Mohawks surprised supporters, including Senator Charles E. Schumer, when the tribe dropped its partners in favor of a large gambling company, Park Place Entertainment.
 At that time, executives at Park Place, which has since merged with Harrah's Entertainment, said they would obtain federal approval and build a Mohawk casino at Kutsher's Sports Academy, outside Monticello. But that still has not happened.
 In 2001, the Legislature authorized Mr. Pataki to negotiate deals for three Indian casinos in the Buffalo-Niagara Falls area and three in the Catskills, which gambling enthusiasts viewed as a plum location because of its proximity to New York City.
 The third casino is under way outside Buffalo, but there is still no casino in the Catskills, despite attempts by the Mohawks, the Cayugas, the Stockbridge Munsee Band of Mohicans and others to build casinos.
 Earlier this year, Mr. Pataki announced that he had agreements with five tribes, including the Mohawks, to settle their land claims, in part, in exchange for casinos in the Catskills. But a subsequent ruling by the United States Supreme Court seemed to undermine the land settlements.
 Mr. Pataki submitted a bill allowing for the one project unaffected by the court ruling: the Mohawk casino at Kutsher's. The Assembly approved it, but the bill was scuttled in the Senate.
 In July, the two Mohawk chiefs notified their partners at Harrah's that they were still interested in a Catskill casino, but after five years they no longer considered their arrangement with the company to be exclusive. The third principal Mohawk chief, James W. Ransom, favored focusing on the Harrah's casino, but Ms. White and Ms. Lazore said their best chance was at the racetrack. 
 They opened discussions with Empire Resorts and state officials. Tribal representatives also visited the Interior Department.
 ''With the stroke of a pen, the governor can create thousands of jobs,'' said Robert A. Berman, the vice chairman of Empire Resorts. ''Let's hope it's not wasted.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (95%); GAMING (92%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RESORTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (72%); JOB CREATION (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); SALES TAX (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



6 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE SUPERDOME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: At Stadium, a Haven Quickly Becomes an Ordeal

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER; Maureen Balleza contributed reporting from Houston for this article.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
The sick and the disabled were the first to be led out. But late Wednesday afternoon, as the slow evacuation of the Superdome began, it was not always easy to distinguish them from the rest of the 20,000 or more storm refugees who had steeped for days in the arena's sickening heat and stench, unbathed, exhausted and hungry.
 They had been crammed into the Superdome's shadowy ramps and corridors, spread across its vast artificial turf field and plopped into small family encampments in the plush orange, teal and purple seats that rise toward the top of the dome.
They had flocked to the arena seeking sanctuary from the winds and waters of Hurricane Katrina. But understaffed, undersupplied and without air-conditioning or even much lighting, the domed stadium quickly became a sweltering and surreal vault, a place of overflowing toilets and no showers. Food and water, blankets and sheets, were in short supply. And the dome's reluctant residents exchanged horror stories, including reports, which could not be confirmed by the authorities, of a suicide and of rapes. 
 By Wednesday the stink was staggering. Heaps of rotting garbage in bulging white plastic bags baked under a blazing Louisiana sun on the main entry plaza, choking new arrivals as they made their way into the stadium after being plucked off rooftops and balconies.
 The odor billowing from toilets was even fouler. Trash spilled across corridors and aisles, slippery with smelly mud and scraps of food.
 ''They're housing us like animals,'' said Iiesha Rousell, 31, unemployed after four years in the Army in Germany, dripping with perspiration in the heat, unable to contain her fury and disappointment at being left with only National Guardsmen as overseers and no information about what might lie ahead.
 Once inside the dome, refugees were told that for their own safety they could not leave -- the flood waters climbed four feet up the walls outside -- and many likened the shelter to a prison.
 Michael Childs, 45 and a housepainter, went a step further.
 ''It's worse than a prison,'' said Mr. Childs, who knew something about the subject, having spent three months in the Orleans Parish Prison on a drunken-driving charge. ''In prison you have a place to urinate, a place for other bathroom needs. Here you get no water, no toilets, no lights. You get all that in prison.''
 On Wednesday afternoon, federal emergency management workers and National Guardsmen began escorting the sickest residents out of the arena. By late evening, when the evacuation paused, 700 people had been removed from the dome. The authorities said they were being taken to other places in the state. 
 Officials said they hoped to resume their work on Thursday, using hundreds of school buses and municipal buses to take the rest of the refugees to the Astrodome in Houston, on a ride lasting more than six hours. Rest stops were planned at Baton Rouge, Lake Charles and Beaumont, Tex. 
 If there was little comfort in the prospect of trading one sports arena for another, there was hope waiting in Houston, where Texas officials promised showers, food, medical care and perhaps most important, the freedom to come and go through a system of passes. At a news conference, Judge Robert Eckels, chief executive of Harris County, which owns the Astrodome, offered assurances that it was ''not a jail.'' 
 At the center of the dome, the field looked like a sprawling military aid station, littered with casualties from a major battle. Families huddled together on scraps of cardboard and torn sheets of vinyl ripped off the lower walls of the stadium. A few stretched out on cots. Piled beside them were plastic shopping bags and suitcases, holding a few clothes. Some people had arrived with nothing more than what they were wearing.
 A humid, dusky haze hung over the football field, pierced by three angular shafts of light, as if from an old biblical movie, streaming through holes that the storm tore in the rubbery white fabric covering the dome.
 Desperation was in the air. Danielle Shelby tugged at a reporter's arm. ''I have a handicapped daughter,'' she said. ''She's over there with her wheelchair. She's hot. We don't have any water. I'm afraid she's going to have a seizure.''
 Others crowded around. ''I've been in the food line twice, and every time I get to the front they tell me they don't have any left,'' said Juanita McFerrin, 80.
 ''My husband has cancer,'' another woman said. ''He's not getting his regular treatment.''
 Frank L. Jones, 54, said he had gone four days without his asthma medicine. Lionel Valentine, 53, who breathes with the help of an oxygen machine, wanted to know if his family would be split up again as they were moved from the dome.
 It got worse. Ms. Rousell recalled hearing a loud bang Tuesday afternoon as the body of a man slapped the concrete at the edge of the football field in a fatal suicidal plunge, after he apparently learned that his home had been destroyed. Others told of fights that broke out in food lines, and of a husband and wife who slugged each other in a wild argument.
 Several residents said they had heard of children being raped, though it was not clear whether anyone reported such incidents to the authorities, and no officials could be found who could confirm the accounts. 
 Darcel Monroe, 21, a bakery cashier, stammered hysterically as she recounted seeing two young girls being raped in one of the women's bathrooms. ''A lot of people saw it but they were afraid to do anything,'' she said. ''He ran out past all of us.'' 
 Many said they felt they had been dumped and abandoned in the stadium. There were no television sets to allow them to follow the rescue efforts, or learn when they might get out.
 ''One guard would say we're going, another would say we're not,'' said Malachi Johnson, 23, a forklift operator. ''One says the water is rising, another says the water is going down. We don't know what to believe.''
 As the storm struck early Monday, families were often separated. Some took shelter, while others stayed behind to guard houses. Still others decided the hurricane would not be that serious and ended up being rescued. But no one was helping families reunite, they said.
 Brenda Smith, 42, a homemaker, said she had been unable to find her teenage daughters, Britney and Jessica. They had gone to stay with a sister of Ms. Smith's in a housing project that had been surrounded by floodwaters.
 ''I know they were in the project, and I know that the project was evacuated,'' Ms. Smith said. ''But I don't know where they are, and I don't know who to talk to. I've walked around the whole Superdome twice.''
 She was eager to get out of the dome, Ms. Smith said, but not looking forward to being shipped to some distant holding center. ''I would like to know something about my daughters before I go anywhere,'' she said, as she rested her head on a scrap of cardboard near the 35-yard line.
 Kiki Bell, who is 29 and manages two shops, one selling lace, the other offering herbal remedies, worried about being sent away from New Orleans. ''What's going to happen to our jobs?'' she asked. ''How can we take care of our families?''
 Teenagers stuck in the dome tried to make the best of it. Two pickup squads of about 20 players, shirtless and barefoot, battled in a rather loosely structured game of touch football Wednesday afternoon, ignoring the heat. Some of the boys took the barrel-like foam rubber padding off one of the goalposts and turned it into a tackling dummy, crashing into it with powerful, smashing lunges.
 The younger children found their own diversions. Around the 30-yard line, two cousins, Ken Juan Smith, 2, and Joseph M. Smith, 3, chased each other in meandering circles, shrieking when they collided and later playing catch with empty plastic water bottles.
 No one in the dome seemed happy. But some were able to overcome their discomfort, frustration and anger to reflect on the larger issue of having survived.
 ''I just thank God,'' said Ms. Smith, who despaired at finding her daughters before taken to some far-away shelter. ''This has been awful. But it's better than being out there in the wind and the rain and that rising water.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Injured patients from New Orleans being taken from a transport plane yesterday at a Houston airport. (Photo by Michael Stravato for the New York Times)
Hurricane survivors waited yesterday for evacuation in spectators' seats. Some had been there for four days.
 A young evacuee getting help yesterday as the first people, the sick and the disabled, left the Superdome. (Photographs by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REFUGEES (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (68%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (60%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Superdome (New Orleans); Astrodome (Houston); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (54%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



7 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Economy's Pace Is Lowered a Bit 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Economic growth was a touch weaker in the second quarter than at first thought as consumers spent less than estimated and imports sated some of their appetite, the government said on Wednesday.
 Separately, a gauge of business activity in the Midwest slumped in August, contracting for the first time in more than two years and suggesting that the economy may not be on as firm a path as previously thought as it braces to deal with the fallout from Hurricane Katrina.
The Midwest business barometer from the Institute for Supply Management fell to 49.2 in August from 63.5 in July, its lowest level since April 2003. 
 Gross domestic product, a measure of all goods and services produced within the nation's borders, grew at a revised 3.3 percent annual rate in the April-June period after a 3.8 percent first-quarter gain, the Commerce Department said.
 In its first snapshot a month ago, the department had put second-quarter growth at 3.4 percent, a figure economists had expected to be nudged up to 3.5 percent.
 The report showed that businesses added a bit to inventories, in contrast to a month ago when inventories were thought to have dropped. 
 Economists said this implied a little less pickup in production ahead for an economy that appears set to take at least a temporary hit from soaring energy prices.
 The gross domestic product report showed inflation was a bit lower than initially thought in the second quarter, with the price index for consumer spending rising at a 3.2 percent annual rate, compared with an initial 3.3 percent estimate.
 The report also offered the first look at corporate profits for the quarter. Profits after tax rose a solid 6.9 percent after a 0.1 percent dip in the first quarter. 
 But analysts said profits could take a hit as insurance companies scrambled to pay hurricane-related claims.
 The revised figures showed consumer spending advanced at a 3 percent pace, a bit softer than the 3.3 percent rise first reported. Business investment spending was also a bit weaker, although it still climbed at a healthy 8.4 percent rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STATISTICS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); HURRICANES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); INSURANCE (63%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) Commerce Department; Institute for Supply Management

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



8 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Europe, With Other Woes, Takes Gas Prices in Stride

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and CARTER DOUGHERTY; Eric Sylvers contributed reporting from Milan for this article, and James Kanter from Paris.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Tiziano Colombo, an engineer from Milan, hit the road this summer, driving with his wife and in-laws in a rented van through Austria, Germany, Belgium, Holland and France.
 With oil prices rising during his two-week vacation, Mr. Colombo spent $670 on diesel to fill his Ford Transit. By his arithmetic, it was still cheaper than buying train tickets for four people. The cost of traveling by car would have to nearly double, he said, before he would consider switching.
''The car is freedom, and freedom is what we were after,'' Mr. Colombo, 53, said, sounding like an American. ''Obviously, if I was doing this trip by myself, you'd have a hard time justifying the extra cost.'' 
 Soaring oil prices have begun to rattle Europeans, just as they have Americans, with the disruption of oil production in the United States by Hurricane Katrina driving gasoline prices in Europe to new records as well.
 But the reaction of Europeans has been less dramatic because of the higher base price of fuel, the strength of the euro against the dollar and Europe's three-decade search for alternatives to fossil fuels, which has made it a bit less vulnerable to spikes in the price of crude oil.
 The biggest difference, say economists, is that Europeans are distracted by other things, like economic stagnation in Italy or double-digit unemployment in Germany. Next to these problems, paying 1.30 euros a liter, or the equivalent of $6 a gallon, for gas does not seem like a calamity.
 ''Americans live in a wonderful world, with 3.75 percent growth and nearly full employment,'' said Jorg Kramer, the chief economist of the HVB Group in Munich. ''They can afford to worry about fuel prices. We have other problems.''
 In Germany, the closely watched GfK survey of consumer confidence rose in August for the first time in five months, even as oil prices hit records. A reason for the renewed optimism was polls showing that the German government was likely to be ousted in elections on Sept. 18.
 Many here blame Chancellor Gerhard Schroder for failing to cure Germany's chronic high unemployment, which recently set a post-World War II record. His conservative challenger, Angela Merkel, has put job creation and tax changes at the top of her agenda. 
 Even so, few people expect the conservatives will scrap the so-called ecotax on fuel, which the Green Party pushed for in 1998 when it took over the environment ministry in a coalition with the Social Democrats.
 For one thing, Germany desperately needs the revenue generated by the tax to narrow its yawning budget deficit. For another, Germans are not really protesting the levy, which adds 15 cents a liter to the price of gasoline (all told, taxes account for two-thirds of the price of gasoline in Germany; diesel fuel, which is more efficient, is taxed at a lower rate to encourage its use).
 ''I'm sometimes astonished at how much the German voter can take of this,'' Roland Koch, the prime minister of the state of Hesse and a leading member of the conservative Christian Democrats, said in an interview. ''It's like a powder keg that has no clear trigger.''
 There is evidence that German consumers are using less gasoline, or at least buying less. The association of German gasoline sellers, MWV, has registered a 5 percent drop in sales since the beginning of the year.
 The gasoline industry also suspects that more Germans are crossing the border to countries like Poland and the Czech Republic, where fuel taxes are lower. Recently, German police fined a man in a van as he tried to smuggle 2,000 liters of diesel from Luxembourg, another lower-tax country.
 But energy costs have scarcely intruded on the political debate. When Jurgen Trittin, the environment minister, urged Germans, in an interview with the mass-market newspaper Bild, to leave their cars at home and use more public transportation, he was roundly dismissed by readers, many of whom said they needed cars to get to work.
 Some of this resistance may be because of fatigue. Germans, like most Europeans, changed their habits to curb the use of fossil fuels three decades ago, after the oil shock of the 1970's. To some people here, calls for energy conservation are not as much unwelcome as unnecessary.
 Moreover, Europe's steep fuel taxes have, paradoxically, cushioned the blow: many of those taxes are fixed, leaving only the underlying oil price to fluctuate. In the United States, increases in crude oil prices can lead to more pronounced increases at the pump, because some taxes are levied as a percentage of the gas price. The strong euro has played a mitigating role, too, by acting as a hedge against changes in the dollar-denominated oil market.
 German officials warn that high fuel prices will hobble the country's growth. But some economists say that fear is misplaced. Much of the upward price pressure, they note, stems from rocketing demand in China, which, in turn, imports heavy machinery and other goods from Germany.
 ''Expensive oil is the price for letting China grow, which is beneficial for us,'' Mr. Kramer of HVB said.
 Rising fuel prices do annoy Germans, according to GfK, the market research company in Nuremberg that conducts the consumer confidence survey. But this pales in comparison to the fear of unemployment, which 81 percent of those surveyed consider the country's No.1 problem.
 ''If I have a job, I can complain about the cost of filling up my car,'' said Klaus Wubbenhorst, the chief executive of GfK. ''If I don't have a job, I'm going to be on foot anyway.''
 In a survey of consumers throughout Europe, GfK found that inflation trailed joblessness as a cause of anxiety (it did not ask specifically about oil). 
 Only 11 percent of those surveyed in Germany, and 4 percent of those in Britain, said prices were the biggest problem. Among French and Italians, inflation was a greater concern, cited by 29 percent and 25 percent, respectively.
 Notwithstanding holdouts like Mr. Colombo, Italians do seem to be switching from cars to trains. Ferrovia dello Stato, which runs much of Italy's train system, reports that its number of riders has risen substantially this year, which it attributes in large part to fuel prices.
 This is particularly true on lines that serve commuters. On one of the busiest lines connecting Rome with its outlying suburbs, the number of riders increased 300 percent in the last five years and continues to rise.
 Still, in Italy as in Germany, oil prices have taken a back seat to other concerns. Italy's competitiveness has deteriorated in recent years. Its textile industry is being buffeted by a trade dispute between Europe and China. And its economy lingers on the edge of a recession.
 In France, however, rising oil prices loom as a political problem. Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has vowed to help workers and less well-off citizens cope with the pain. 
 He said the government would take surplus taxes from any windfall created by higher prices and redistribute it in the form of tax breaks to workers in industries that rely most heavily on fuel -- including truck and taxi drivers, farmers and fishermen.
 ''The rhetoric from the truck drivers is becoming more and more aggressive, and already some of the drivers are talking about blockades,'' said Laurence Boone, an economist with Barclays Capital in Paris. ''The question then is how far Villepin will go to thwart that kind of public discontent.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A driver fills his tank in France, where the base price of gasoline is higher than in the United States. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Chart: ''The Tax Difference''Taxes account for about two-thirds of the price of gas in Europe, compared with about 20 percent of the price in the United States.Graph shows fuel prices in Italy, Britain, Germany, France, and the U.S.(Source by International Energy Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); TAX LAW (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); HURRICANES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); WEATHER (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); CONSERVATISM (66%); EURO (66%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (66%); POLITICS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Unemployment; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: UNICREDIT BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (57%) Mark Landler; Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); ITALY (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); BELGIUM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); AUSTRIA (90%) Europe; Germany; Italy

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



9 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Panicked Stampede in IraqKills More than 950 People
More than 950 people were killed and hundreds injured when rumors of a suicide bomber provoked a frenzied stampede in a procession of Shiite pilgrims as they crossed a bridge in Baghdad, government and hospital officials said. A1

Bolton Clashes With U.N.
John R. Bolton, the American ambassador to the United Nations, came under fire and fired back over hundreds of changes he is seeking to a pivotal document on aid for the developing world and change at the United Nations. A4

Jailed Russian Eyes Politics
Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the Russian former oil tycoon who received a nine-year sentence on charges of fraud and tax evasion, said he planned to run for Parliament in special elections in December. A7

Russia Accused in Beslan Siege
The Chechen rebel leader and mastermind of the siege last year at a school in Beslan said Russia's special services had helped make the assault possible by allowing the terrorists safe passage toward the school in an attempt to ambush them. A6

Housing Inspections in France
French authorities, under public pressure after two fires killed 24 African immigrants in Paris in the last week, pushed ahead with an inventory of the city's most dilapidated buildings, preparing to evacuate those deemed unsafe. A9

NATIONAL A12-21;24

New Orleans Struggles For Sanity After Storm
Chaos gripped New Orleans as looters ran wild, food and potable water supplies dwindled, bodies floated in the floodwaters, the Superdome was ordered evacuated and officials said there was no choice but to abandon the city devastated by Hurricane Katrina, perhaps for months. A1

With communication and transportation systems on the Gulf Coast severely damaged, there is no clear way to get the global view of the health care crisis in the region. Many hospitals, particularly in New Orleans, are being evacuated. A16

Four Men Indicted in Terror Plot
Four men were indicted in Southern California in what federal authorities described as a terrorist plot hatched inside a prison to attack synagogues, American military installations and Israeli officials. A12

EDUCATION

Schools to Help Storm Victims
Public officials and educators across the nation reached out to offer classroom space to students whose public schools and colleges and universities were closed by Hurricane Katrina. A20

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Scientists Decode Chimp Genes
Scientists have decoded the chimp genome and compared it with that of humans, a major step toward defining what makes people human and developing insight into the evolution of human sexual behavior. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Secrecy Prevails in HearingOn Patriot Act Case
Lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union asked a federal judge in Bridgeport, Conn., to lift an order that prevents their client, a member of the American Library Association, from identifying itself so it can respond publicly to the government's demand, under the USA Patriot Act, for library records as part of a counterterror inquiry. B1

U.S. Plans Fraud Review
Federal officials said they planned to review New York State's Medicaid prosecution unit this fall. The move comes after a series of articles in The Times showed that perhaps billions had been lost to fraud in the program and that the state's prevention efforts had been ineffectual. B5

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

THURSDAY STYLES G1-10

OBITUARIES C18

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

Options for Homeless Teams
Scheduling sports events in New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina is such a daunting prospect that the National Basketball Association is bracing to relocate its local franchise for the entire 2005-2006 season. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

Katrina's Economic Impact
Gasoline prices surged well above $3 a gallon in some parts of the nation in the wake of the Hurricane Katrina, creating complaints of price gouging, forcing drivers to wait in line to fill their tanks and, in some cases, causing service stations to run out of gas. A1

Convoys of utility trucks and reinforcement workers are descending from as far away as Massachusetts to restore electricity to the estimated 1.6 million household and business customers without power. C1

Ports from Louisiana to Florida remain closed, slowing imports and exports and creating bottlenecks that are likely to lead to delays in production of hundreds of products and higher prices for consumers. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Waiting for a leader; life in the bottom 80 percent; banished whistle-blowers; Philip M. Boffey on world-class sports in Queens.

Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
Crossword E7
TV Listings E8
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); SENTENCING (75%); POLITICS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); HURRICANES (70%); TAX FRAUD (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); JUDGES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); US PATRIOT ACT (67%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (91%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



10 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: A Sad Day, Too, for Architecture

BYLINE: By S. FREDERICK STARR. 
S. Frederick Starr, chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at Johns Hopkins University, served previously as vice president of Tulane University and president of Oberlin College. He is the author of four books on New Orleans and the leader of the Louisiana Repertory Jazz Ensemble of New Orleans.

 BODY:
SITTING safely in Washington, I am watching harrowing footage shot from helicopters above the Ninth Ward of New Orleans, submerged under 14 feet of water when the Mississippi thundered through the breached levee at the Industrial Canal and destroyed everything in its swirling waters. 
 My home is there, a West Indian-style plantation house built in 1826, standing as an ancient relic amid a maze of wooden houses a century younger. Some are classic bungalows, but most are distinctly New Orleans building types, with fanciful names like shotguns and camelbacks. I watch as a neighbor is rescued from his rooftop. Dazed, he has emerged from his attic, wriggling through a hole he hacked in the roof, swooped up by a Guardsman on a swinging rope. He is safe. Scores of others aren't. Bodies float through the streets of the Ninth Ward. Presumably they are from the diverse group that inhabits this deepest-dyed old New Orleans neighborhood: poorer blacks and whites, Creoles of color and a sprinkling of artists. 
My neighbor Miss Marie is also one of the lucky ones. Born on the ground floor of what is now my house, she is 81, residing in a shotgun house that her husband, now deceased, built 60 years ago. She has spent most of her life within a perimeter of barely 30 yards. Both her speech and her cooking were formed right there. A painted plaster statue of the Virgin has protected her through all previous storms. But this time she pleaded with my friend John White to take her as he left town. Satellite photos show the shadow of her roof beneath the filthy water. Her house is gone, but John saved her life, driving to Atlanta, sleeping on benches at rest stops. 
 Until Monday, our Ninth Ward was a neighborhood on the way up. When I bought the forgotten Lombard Plantation 16 years ago it was surrounded by a 15-foot cyclone fence to fend off drug dealers selling cocaine in the nearby port. Murder was common. My father was convinced I was mad to buy it, even at the grand price of $110,000. But then a few brave artists began fixing up houses a few blocks away. They persuaded the city to give the neighborhood an antiseptically modern name: Bywater.
 Gradually crime declined and housing prices soared, at least by the modest standards of New Orleans real estate. Happily, most of the old inhabitants stayed on. I recall more than a few cases of the newcomers helping their older neighbors paint their houses. As this happened, a wonderfully textured community emerged, embodying the best of new and old. Bywater even developed its own neighborhood celebration, the annual Mirliton Festival, named not for the dance in the second act of Tchaikovsky's ''Nutcracker'' but for the locally grown squash that Creole cooks like Miss Marie transform into a spicy treat. 
 Bywater was a model of humane and organic urban revitalization. It even acquired a motto, emblazoned on signs painted by a local artist: Be nice or leave. Until Monday. 
 We are just beginning to appreciate the human disaster occurring in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast. Hundreds, maybe thousands, have already perished. Hundreds of thousands will lose their homes and all their worldly possessions. Untold numbers of businesses will close their doors, throwing huge numbers of people out of work. New Orleans, its population already in decline, now faces economic and social collapse.
 It also faces the loss of some of America's most notable historic architecture. Maybe not in the French Quarter, which may emerge relatively intact, or the Garden District, which was spared most of the flooding. The dangers lie in neighborhoods like Treme and Mid-City, which extend along Bayou Road toward Lake Pontchartrain and are rich in 18th- and 19th-century homes, shops, churches and social halls. They have been badly hit by the violent winds or torrents of water. And so have hundreds of other important buildings and vernacular structures throughout the city and across the breadth of South Louisiana and the Gulf Coast.
 I think, for example, of the 220-year-old Destrehan Plantation along the River Road, a living record of Louisiana's complex and conflicted history, only recently reclaimed from near-ruin by the state, under the supervision of Eugene Cizek, a Tulane architectural preservationist. The news reports that all of Destrehan is deep under water. Or what about the wonderful mix of grand homes and well-proportioned freedmen's cottages along Bayou Lafourche, or the old wooden farmsteads in Louisiana's so-called Florida parishes, which stood close to Katrina's ruinous path?
 Louisiana, especially South Louisiana, is a living archive of American social and cultural history, and not just in its buildings. In no other state is the proportion of people born and raised within its borders so high. As a consequence, they are something that is ever more rare in a homogenized and suburbanized America: the living bearers and transmitters of their own history and culture. Katrina, and those fateful levee breaks in New Orleans, put this all at risk.
 I am pondering what I will do with my own piece of Louisiana's heritage. For six years I have used my academic salary to work with Jack Stewart, a local master builder, to restore the Lombard Plantation. His craftsmen include Pierre Trudeau, a descendant of the free black who surveyed the land back in the early 1800's, and the Clesi brothers, descended from the large Sicilian immigration that so enriched New Orleans life after that group's arrival in the 1870's. 
 By last month we were almost done. The house breathed a lost age, when New Orleans was the northernmost outpost of the Caribbean world, and when a New Orleanian, Louis Moreau Gottschalk, was composing music that anticipated ragtime and jazz by 70 years. So evocative was the ancient house that Disney was considering it as a set for a feature film starring Denzel Washington. Just last Thursday 20 Disney cameramen, sound and light people, and set designers pored over the place. Their decision, if positive, would have paid for the final steps in my six-year adventure.
 Now the Lombard Plantation is under water. If it survives at all, it will need massive rehabilitation. Just as likely, it will go the way of Miss Marie's house and of hundreds of other pieces of the region's heritage. 
 But I do not intend to give up easily. Why? Because I am absolutely convinced that New Orleanians will not allow their city to become a ghost town. And I intend to be part of the renewal that springs from this determination.
 No city in North America has lived more constantly with natural disaster than New Orleans. For nearly three centuries it has been overwhelmed periodically by floods, hurricanes and pestilence. A major outbreak of yellow fever occurred as recently as 1905, long after that disease had passed into history elsewhere in North America. Soft ''batture'' bricks, the result of there being no clay within 50 miles, dissolve, causing buildings to collapse. Fires in the largely wood-built city have periodically wiped out whole swaths of town. Formosan termites eat everything except tungsten steel. Good friends in the Garden District recently spent millions restoring a grand home there. But Formosan termites dropped onto their new roof from a gorgeous overhanging oak and ate away most of the roof timbers before their munching was detected. 
 Economic disasters, too, are part and parcel of New Orleans life. For centuries this has been the ''boom and bust'' capital of North America, where not only individuals go from nothing to riches and back to nothing in a decade, but the entire community does. It's an old story.
 The culture of New Orleans has long since factored disasters and general uncertainty into its economic and philosophical outlook. An early-19th-century cholera epidemic killed one out of five New Orleanians, the equivalent of 100,000 today. Even the gravediggers died, forcing people to pile bodies at the cemetery gates. The first owner of the Lombard Plantation was among those who succumbed. But his wife and family stayed on, and some of their descendants, both white and black, are still in New Orleans today, perhaps perched on their rooftop awaiting rescue or huddling gratefully with friends out in Lafayette or Breaux Bridge. 
 I expect they, too, will return, and that life in New Orleans will go on, with all its precariousness and sense of fragility and, yes, with all its relish for the moment. That relish, by the way, which arose from the constant awareness of precisely such disasters as we are experiencing today, accounts for much of what gives the people of that city their reckless abandon, their devil-may-care attitude, and their zest for life. Rebuilding after Katrina will be just the next in a long series of events in which that spirit has been manifested.


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOMBARD PLANTATION -- The author's home before the levee breach blocks away. Katrina damaged thousands of vernacular houses that embody the city's ethos. (pg. F1)
 THEN THE WATER RUSHED IN -- Among the worst-hit areas of New Orleans is the Ninth Ward, the Bywater neighborhood. On Monday emergency workers pulled people from flooded rooftops. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. F9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); MURDER (78%); HURRICANES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); WEATHER (75%); HELICOPTERS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); FESTIVALS (62%); COCAINE (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) Architecture; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Historic Buildings and Sites; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Architecture

PERSON: S Frederick Starr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



11 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Bolton Makes His Case at U.N. for a New Focus for Aid Projects 

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
John R. Bolton, the American ambassador here, came under fire and fired back on Wednesday over hundreds of changes he is seeking to a pivotal document on aid for the developing world and change at the United Nations. 
 The dispute centers on American objections, which became public only late last week, to objectives covering poverty, hunger, education, health, the environment and humanitarian intervention.
They are known as the millennium development goals and are considered the framework of a summit meeting of more than 170 presidents and prime ministers in two weeks.
 ''The United States came in a few days ago essentially to try to gut this document,'' said Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and special adviser to Secretary General Kofi Annan on the millennium goals. ''Their purpose is clear: to try to eliminate the momentum behind the millennium development goals and to wriggle free of the commitments they have made.'' 
 Mr. Annan, cutting short an African vacation to return to his office on Wednesday, said the goals were seen by most countries as defining the United Nations' mission.
 ''I don't think anyone can remove them from the general public's perception of how we are moving ahead with development,'' he said. ''I'm not sure the other member states would want to see the millennium development goals dropped, or worse, expunged from the document.''
 Mr. Bolton, who met with Mr. Annan, said the proposed changes were being wrongly portrayed as a break with past American commitments that were agreed to at the millennium summit meeting in 2000.
 He said what the United States objected to was the way the United Nations secretariat later codified those goals into numerical targets and timetables, like the pledge that countries devote seven-tenths of 1 percent of gross national product to development assistance.
 ''Quite some time ago the president said unequivocally we support the development goals in the millennium summit declaration,'' Mr. Bolton told reporters. ''Now that's different from the goals that were actually written by the secretariat. There is no backing away by the United States in the support for the millennium summit declaration.''
 Mr. Bolton also disputed charges that the hundreds of changes the United States was requesting came at the 11th hour, or that he had originated them. 
 To demonstrate his point, he held up documents from the United States mission dating back to June and July showing many of the language deletions and amendments. Mr. Bolton took up his post on Aug. 1.
 ''I think it's important that people understand we haven't done something at the last minute that wasn't part of an effort that was ongoing from the beginning,'' he said.
 Mr. Bolton spent the day with ambassadors from 35 countries in intensive talks that Jean Ping of Gabon, the president of the General Assembly, convened to try to resolve differences. 
 They are focusing on seven issues: terrorism, development, disarmament and nonproliferation, protection from genocide, management reform, a peace-building commission and replacement of the discredited Human Rights Commission.
 Mr. Bolton has written ''Dear Colleague'' letters to all 191 United Nations ambassadors, outlining the American position on each of the seven matters, with the new language the United States wants.
 Despite growing gloom at the United Nations, Mr. Bolton expressed confidence that the talks would succeed. 
 ''It is going to be arduous, but we are going to rock and roll for a couple weeks and see how it goes,'' he told reporters. ''I've got my pen in my pocket and I'm ready to go, and I'll be ready tonight and I'll be ready over the weekend. We can make this deadline, and we can get a strong outcome document.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. Bolton, the U.S. envoy, whose requests for reshaping aid goals have come under attack. (Photo by Mary Altaffer/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TRENDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid ; Third World and Developing Countries; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%) United Nations

PERSON: Warren Hoge; John R (Amb) Bolton

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (77%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



12 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: 76 Arrested Protesting N.Y.U.'s Cutoff of Student Union 

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
The president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the secretary-treasurer of the United Auto Workers and a state senator were among nearly 80 people who were arrested yesterday during a protest of New York University's decision to end dealings with a union of graduate student teaching and research assistants.
 The protesters linked arms and sat down in front of the university's Bobst Library, despite warnings from the police that they would be charged with disorderly conduct.
''This is about the N.Y.U. administration union busting,'' John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., declared to a cheering, sign-waving crowd. ''We are here today to express our anger and our disgust. Union busting is for corporate criminals who have no values, not for an educational institution.'' 
 ''We're going to be here for as long as it takes to get a good contract,'' he added.
 The National Labor Relations Board gave the N.Y.U. students the right to unionize in late 2000, making N.Y.U. the first private university to have a graduate student employee union. The union, the Graduate Student Organizing Committee, had about 1,000 members and was affiliated with the U.A.W., which has an arm that has long organized white-collar workers.
 But after a revamped national labor board reversed that position last year, the university decided not to renew its contract with the union. 
 Yesterday, hundreds of graduate students, professors, union leaders and others, including the actress Morgan Fairchild and people from N.Y.U., Yale, the University of Massachusetts and other universities, turned out on a hot, humid afternoon to mark the final day of the N.Y.U. union contract.
 For many in the labor movement, N.Y.U. has become a symbol of organized labor's determination to expand its presence in academe. 
 ''A lot of graduate unions are rallying around our N.Y.U. brothers and sisters because of concerns about what the university's decision may portend,'' said Jeremy Wolf, a Ph.D. student in political science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, who was among the protesters.
 Another protester, Andrew Ross, a professor of American studies at N.Y.U. who was dressed in an academic cap and gown, said the protest marked the beginning of a public campaign against the university. 
 ''There almost certainly will be a strike,'' he said. 
 John Beckman, an N.Y.U. spokesman, said administrators were preparing for a strike ''to insure that the academic experience of our students is what it should be.'' 
 He said the university had decided not to continue to recognize the union because it had not abided by an agreement not to interfere with academic decision-making. 
 He said the union had filed grievances on academic matters like the selection of teachers for courses. The university offered to continue bargaining over economic issues if the union would forgo its right to file such grievances, but the union rejected that offer.
 Union officials said that they filed complaints when they believed conditions were unfair and that the procedure was important to retain.
 Deputy Police Commissioner Paul J. Browne said that 76 people were arrested on charges of disorderly conduct but were not held, and that they all went peacefully. He said the department was notified in advance of the plan for civil disobedience. 
 Those arrested included Elizabeth Bunn, the secretary-treasurer of the U.A.W., and State Senator Thomas K. Duane. Other political officials at the protest included State Senator Jose M. Serrano and City Council members Gifford Miller, Christine Quinn, Gale Brewer, Robert Jackson and Bill de Blasio.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., told the crowd at New York University's library, ''Union busting is for corporate criminals who have no values, not for an educational institution.'' Last year, a federal labor board reversed an earlier approval of unions of graduate students. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (72%); RIOTS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (54%) Colleges and Universities; Graduate Schools and Students; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (82%) National Labor Relations Board; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; New York University

PERSON: Karen W Arenson; John L Sweeney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



13 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE OIL SUPPLY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: GAS PRICES SURGE AS SUPPLY DROPS 

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and SIMON ROMERO; Robert W. Dalton, in Spartanburg, S.C.; Brenda Goodman, in Atlanta; and Vikas Bajaj, in New York, contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
For the first time since the 1970's, gasoline lines reappeared yesterday in some corners of the country. 
 Three days after Hurricane Katrina dealt a devastating blow to the nation's largest energy hub, the worst-case possibility was quickly becoming a reality: gasoline prices surging well above $3 a gallon, with some consumers complaining of price gouging; service stations in a handful of locations running out of gas; drivers rushing to fill their tanks, only to find themselves waiting in line with others.
After the sudden drop in oil supplies, gasoline sellers were quick to raise their prices. While gasoline averaged $2.60 a gallon earlier in the week, unleaded regular gas was selling yesterday at $3.09 at stations in West Palm Beach, Fla.; $3.49 in Indianapolis; and $3.25 in San Francisco. Premium fuel was going for up to $3.89 a gallon in Chicago. 
 Shortages and gasoline lines were reported in parts of South Carolina, the Dakotas, Arkansas and Kentucky.
 The White House responded yesterday by saying it would release oil from the nation's emergency stockpiles to meet shortages and would relax environmental standards nationwide so that refiners could produce more -- but dirtier -- gasoline. 
 ''A lot of crude production has been shut down because of the storm,'' President Bush said outside the White House yesterday after returning from his vacation in Texas. ''Our citizens must understand this storm has disrupted the capacity to make gasoline and to distribute gasoline.''
 In response to the White House announcement, the price of crude oil fell in trading yesterday to $68.94, from $69.81, and the stock market rose as traders looked for signs of relief.
 Still, most analysts said that neither move by the federal government was likely to produce much gasoline in the short term or bring prices down anytime soon. The problem is not any immediate shortage of crude oil but rather that crucial oil product pipelines and refineries in the gulf region are unable to operate. 
 The impact from the hurricane is likely to be felt nationwide for months. Some economists suggest that the disruptions could shave at least one percentage point from a fourth-quarter growth rate that most analysts, until the disaster, expected to reach roughly 3 percent.
 Moreover, if oil prices remain around $70 a barrel or higher, they could put the Federal Reserve in an increasingly unpleasant position, caught between the desire to keep inflation low and the pressure to prevent an economic downturn.
 The storm, which submerged New Orleans after it slammed into the Gulf of Mexico on Monday, crippled substantial portions of the country's energy infrastructure. In Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, electrical power was out, refineries were drowned, and most of the offshore production of oil and gas had not resumed. 
 While crude oil prices fell, gasoline futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange soared for a third day as traders and analysts tried to determine the severity and duration of the supply disruptions. 
 Gasoline futures -- equivalent to wholesale prices before taxes, distribution and marketing costs -- closed at $2.6145 a gallon yesterday, a gain of 5.7 percent. On Tuesday, they jumped 20 percent. 
 Energy industry officials said the sharp jump in prices was an inevitable market reaction to fears that the only way to balance continued strong demand with tighter supplies was through higher prices, which would serve to keep some drivers from taking extra trips. They said price controls would only make the situation worse by discouraging production. 
 The government started receiving reports of price gouging at the retail level and said the complaints would be turned over to the Federal Trade Commission for investigation. ''We have gotten a number of people concerned about the prices,'' said Craig Stevens, a spokesman for the Energy Department.
 And Reuters reported that Georgia's governor, Sonny Perdue, signed an order to punish gasoline sellers who gouge customers, amid complaints that prices in some cases had risen to $5 a gallon. 
 Mark N. Cooper, the research director with the Consumer Federation of America, said the issue was not gouging.
 ''This is the result of the complete and total neglect of the petroleum industry,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''Refiners are vulnerable, overstretched and not very competitive. Gouging is not the problem. It's a symptom of an underlying disease.''
 Throughout the South and Midwest, service stations were beginning to experience some shortages in areas where gasoline is usually transported by pipeline from the gulf. Nearly two million barrels a day of refining capacity has been knocked out by the storm and could take weeks to return.
 ''There are risks of pockets of shortages in various parts of the country,'' said Edward L. Morse, an executive adviser at Hetco, a New York-based oil trading company. ''There should be no gasoline lines in New York and New England, or California, but inland markets, like parts of Illinois, Tennessee, Kentucky or Missouri, Memphis and Atlanta, are vulnerable.''
 ''Lines are hard to predict,'' Mr. Morse said, because they typically occur ''when consumers want to top off their tanks because they're afraid of gas lines.'' 
 Some drivers in Illinois, for example, rushed to service stations and formed gas lines because they heard on the radio that shortages were developing, only adding to a sense of panic that feeds on itself. In other cases, drivers topped their tanks in anticipation of the Labor Day weekend.
 In parts of South Carolina and a few other places, lines formed because of credible reports that gasoline was in short supply. 
 ''It's obviously very serious,'' said Guy F. Caruso, the administrator of the Energy Information Administration. ''But given time and the industry's proven ability to respond to natural disasters, it will be resolved. Clearly, in the meantime, there will be economic pain.''
 In North Carolina, Gov. Mike Easley said the state had only one week of gasoline supplies and some stations were already running out of fuel. ''We are not out of gas, but we are running low,'' Mr. Easley said.
 In South Carolina, prices topped $3 a gallon for the first time as lines formed at some gas stations. ''This reminds me of the 70's,'' said Ernie Adams, 70, a vacuum cleaner salesman from Union, S.C., who was filling up at a station where several cars lined up at each of the station's 16 pumps. ''I burn a lot of gas, and I was hoping I'd never see anything like that again.''
 According to weekly estimates released yesterday, gasoline stocks in the United States totaled 194 million barrels, enough to satisfy demand for more than 20 days. 
 Sims Floyd Jr., the executive director of the South Carolina Petroleum Marketers Association, said the worst was yet to come. ''We're facing a severe supply shortage very soon.''
 The Mississippi Delta sits in the middle of a network of pipelines that feed markets as far away as New Jersey and Illinois. Last year, the entire gulf region shipped 4.5 million barrels a day of products to other parts of the country, according to the American Petroleum Institute -- most of it by pipelines and the rest by tanker or barges. Pipelines transport 1.9 million barrels a day of crude to refineries in the Midwest.
 As many as 10 refiners have formally requested or informally contacted the government about using oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which currently holds about 700 million barrels of crude, according to Mr. Stevens, the Energy Department spokesman. He declined to identify them until their requests had been approved. 
 But one company whose loan was accepted on Tuesday evening rescinded its request yesterday afternoon. The problem is that no active refiners are in a position to increase their production to make up for the lost output from storm-damaged refineries.
 ''It doesn't matter that the government opens the strategic reserves because there is very little slack in the refining business,'' said Craig Pennington, the director of the global energy group at Schroders in London.
 Rising prices, meanwhile, are inevitably turning into a hot political issue. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, criticized the Bush administration for not moving sooner to tap the oil reserve: ''On energy, Americans were expecting a lot more from the president,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''He took a tiny baby step when a giant step is required.''
 But others said the problem came from decades of underinvestment and a shortage of refining capacity.
 ''This hurricane is a wake-up call that we need to do things across the board on infrastructure and to also expand the base,'' said Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, and the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. ''It's time to not only rebuild what we have, but it's, in my opinion, time to build additional resources so we're not as stressed as we've been.''
 More than 90 percent of the gulf's daily oil output -- or 1.37 million barrels -- remained closed yesterday, while natural gas production was down by 83 percent, or 8.3 billion cubic feet, according to the Minerals Management Service, a unit of the Department of Interior. 
 Coast Guard crews reported that up to 20 rigs and platforms had either sunk or were adrift, Larry Chambers, a public information officer, said. At least one gas rig has caught fire.
 The Mars platform of Royal Dutch Shell -- which alone accounts for 15 percent of the gulf's oil production -- is ''severely damaged,'' the Coast Guard said in a release.
 Some relief might come from more imports of gasoline from Europe. The Environmental Protection Agency relaxed pollution standards nationwide to allow the use of lower grades of gasoline. Earlier the agency had relaxed standards in the four states most affected by Hurricane Katrina: Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana.
 Industry experts expect suppliers from Europe to help fill the gap. But it will not happen overnight. ''The United States is the highest-price market in the world right now, and that will attract European products in large flows,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation. ''That's undeniable. Price is the magnet.'' 
 ''But we have a liquidity crisis,'' he added. ''We need to create supply instantaneously.'' 
 Much of the problem with gasoline supplies is psychological, for consumers as well as investors. 
 Markets were initially calmed by reports that one large pipeline concern, Kinder Morgan, had indicated that its Plantation pipeline, running from New Orleans to the East Coast, was undamaged and expected to resume operating by Tuesday.
 Then, Kinder Morgan unexpectedly pushed back the start-up date for the pipeline, which is capable of 620,000 barrels a day, to yesterday. Then it said there was no clear resumption date.
 Some energy industry strategists were adamant that market forces would prevent gasoline lines from forming. Others were not so sure.
 ''I hate to be an alarmist, but we're in a situation without much precedent,'' said David Pursell, a principal with Pickering Energy Partners in Houston. ''With the gasoline market as tight as it is, people complain about $3 gas but they'll put $5 gas in their car if they suddenly think it's not available.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of Mobile, Ala., waited to fill extra fuel containers yesterday. Some states reported scattered shortages. As many as 10 refiners have contacted the government about using oil from the strategic petroleum reserve. (Photo by Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg News)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shortages; Pipelines; Refineries; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Strategic Petroleum Reserve; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Jad Mouawad; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) South Carolina; North Dakota; South Dakota; Kentucky; Arkansas

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



14 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Construction IssuesLead Shares Broadly Higher 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose broadly yesterday, after the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia hinted that the Fed could change its interest rate policy in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
 Stocks moved higher after the official, Anthony M. Santomero, likened increased oil prices to a kind of temporary tax and told CNBC that it was too early to say whether the Fed would change its interest rate policy in light of the hurricane's wreckage. Many traders took the remark as a signal that the Fed's series of rate increases might end sooner than expected.
 ''The president of the Philly Fed is saying the Fed has to adapt to changing circumstances,'' said Todd Leone, managing director of equity trading at SG Cowen Securities. ''With what's going on in New Orleans, I don't think the Fed can raise rates.'' 
 A decline in the price of crude oil also helped stocks. After settling at $69.81 a barrel on Tuesday, oil for October delivery declined 87 cents yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, to $68.94.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 68.78 points yesterday, or 0.66 percent, to 10,481.60. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 11.92 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 1,220.33. The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.33 points, or 1.05 percent, to 2,152.09. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks gained 12.75 points, or 1.95 percent, closing at 666.51. 
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the New York Stock Exchange by more than 3 to 1. Volume was heavy, rising to 1.8 billion shares from 1.51 billion on Tuesday.
 Oil prices swung wildly, at one point dropping more than $2 a barrel. They had climbed as high as $70.65 a barrel overnight before slipping when Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman announced yesterday morning that the government would release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
 While the promise of borrowing from the reserve eased crude oil prices, the futures price for gasoline, which depends on refinery capacity, soared. The hurricane has closed Gulf Coast refineries. 
 Oil and oil-service stocks were among the day's leaders, advancing strongly. Valero Energy, an independent refiner, was the most active Big Board stock, up $9.71, or 10.3 percent, to $106.50, in trading of more than 34 million shares. Exxon Mobil rose $1.29, to $59.90; Chevron increased 86 cents, to $61.40, and ConocoPhillips jumped $1.53, to $65.94.
 Engineering and construction companies also flourished. Fluor rose $3.34, to $61.91; Jacobs Engineering gained $4.23, to $62.40; and Foster Wheeler increased $2.24, to $26.90. The Shaw Group, an engineering company based in Baton Rouge, La., that is already advertising for workers to help in its rebuilding projects, gained $3.05, or nearly 17 percent, closing at $21.10.
 Insurance stocks declined for the third day. Hartford Financial Services eased by 10 cents, to $73.05, and Allstate lost 43 cents, to $56.21.
 Airlines continued lower on predictions of higher fuel prices. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, fell 10 cents, to $12.59, and Delta Air Lines lost 4 cents, closing at $1.16.
 Boeing rose 28 cents, to $67.02, even after machinist union leaders advised more than 18,000 workers to reject Boeing's contract offer and prepare for a strike. A top Boeing executive said a strike would be devastating to company prospects. Union members vote on the three-year offer today, with the current contract scheduled to expire tomorrow.
 American depository receipts of Cemex of Mexico, a huge cement producer and distributor, were up $3.41, to $47.67, on hopes that the United States would soon lift antidumping tariffs on Mexican cement to ease domestic shortages.
 Tiffany rose $4.11, to $37.42, after its earnings climbed 53 percent in the second quarter on higher sales and a lower tax rate, and the company bolstered profit guidance for the full year. 
 Bonds, which had risen all day, increased further after the Philadelphia Fed chief's comments. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 21/32, to a price of 101 30/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.01 percent from 4.09 percent on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (88%); ENGINEERING (87%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (62%); PLANT CAPACITY (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (91%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (52%); SHAW GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); VLO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS541620 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (50%); NAICS332996 FABRICATED PIPE & PIPE FITTING MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



15 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Parents, Teachers and the Crisis in Education

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Regarding the state of education in the United States, Bob Herbert writes, ''I respectfully suggest that we may be looking at a crisis here'' (''Left Behind, Way Behind,'' column, Aug. 29). As a highly qualified teacher of English at the high school level, I agree.
But this crisis we see in our schools has its roots in American homes increasingly devoid of books and printed material, where children turn exclusively to television, computers and electronic games for entertainment -- and see the adults around them doing the same. Instant-gratification technology has, for many students, replaced the task -- and the thrill -- of reading. 
 One cannot develop solid writing skills without first being a decent reader; underdevelopment of these skills translates to low scores in standardized testing across racial and economic lines, and in all subject areas.
 Education begins in a home where reading is intrinsically valuable and necessary; where recognition of the hard work associated with education and doing well in school are top priorities; and where parents join schools in having high expectations for their children's success.
 Without this initial foundation and continued support at home, a teacher's hands are tied at school.

Jo Ann Price
Freehold, N.J., Aug. 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



16 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
COX, RALEIGH CHAFFEE

 BODY:
 COX--Raleigh Chaffee. In New York City on August 29th. She graduated with a BA in both Math & Economics from Wellesley College in 1957. She came to Wall Street from the National Foreign Trade Council, and joined the Bank of New York in the investment advisory department. Later, she started an investment advisory department for Franklin National Bank. She went to Blythe in 1972, and was the first woman ever hired on the sales side. During this time she was also president of the Junior League, involved in both the society and culture of New York. She married Thomas R. Cox III in 1972. They had two children, Amanda Raleigh (1976) and Samuel Riggs (1978). While raising her family in Brooklyn, she renovated multiple brownstones and tenements, planted street trees and was an active supporter of the Big Apple Circus and served on the board of Goddard Riverside. She moved to Greenwich, CT in 1986; was president of the Daffodil Society, an avid soccer mom, ran the Indian Harbor Yacht Club Junior Sailing program, and was president of the US International 420 Class Association. For the past 8 years she lived in New York City, and worked as an antiques appraiser for her beloved Tepper Galleries. She was truly a Super Mom and loved by all who knew her. She is survived by her children, Amanda and Sam. A memorial service in her honor will be held at the Cathedral of St. 
John the Divine on Sunday, September 18th at 2pm. Donations can be made in her name to Goddard Riverside at 212.873.4448, or the Big Apple Circus at 212.268.2500 ext.128. 
 COX--Raleigh. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Raleigh Cox, a long time board member, former president and devoted member of our community. Raleigh's passion, verve and unmitigated belief in our work will never be forgotten. Our thoughts are with the family during this time of deep sadness. Stanley Heckman, President Stephan Russo Executive Director Goddard Riverside Community Center 
 COX--Raleigh Chaffee. After so many years, it is difficult to say goodbye to our special friend and ''sister''. You inspired us to live well, and taught us how to die well. We will always love you. Max Drazen and Annegret von Winterfeld 
 COX--Raleigh Chaffee. Tepper Galleries mourns the untimely passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Raleigh. A constant ally, confidante, teacher and surrogate mother, you will be part of us forever. 
 COX--Raleigh Chaffee. You graced us with your indomitable spirit, humor, and drive for as long as we've known you. You will always be in our hearts. Kenneth and Ann Hutter 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CALENDARS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SAILING (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); FRANKLIN NATIONAL BANK (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



17 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: France Drafts Plans to Limit Takeovers By Foreigners

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
After recent vocal efforts by France and the United States to defend flagship companies from foreign bidders, French officials on Wednesday started sketching plans to protect companies deemed strategic. But officials left unclear how the plans would pass muster with European regulators or assuage skittish investors. 
 Thierry Breton, the French finance minister, said the government planned a new legal bulwark to protect ''very sensitive sectors'' of the economy, including defense, biotechnology, space and telecommunications. Jean-Francois Cope, the budget minister, said the new measures would fully comply with the terms of French membership in the European Union's single market. 
The moves show the French government trying to shore up its popularity as fears grow over the flight of jobs to low-cost labor markets in Eastern Europe. 
 The French prime minister, Dominique de Villepin, who took office this year, made the defense of French manufacturing one of his rallying calls after speculation this summer that PepsiCo could bid for Danone, a popular household brand in France and a giant purchaser of French dairy and agricultural goods. 
 Washington experienced similar disquiet when Chinese companies sought to acquire the oil company Unocal and the home appliances maker Maytag.
 European regulators said they wanted to review the French plan. 
 The measures are ''important enough that the commission will proactively follow this matter,'' said Gregor Kreuzhuber, a spokesman for the European Commission. ''We don't want to see disguised protectionism.'' 
 Mr. Kreuzhuber said French officials had already told officials in Brussels that the measures would not be specifically aimed at the agriculture-food sector to prevent a takeover of Danone. 
 The French have a history of bitter battles over economic protectionism with the European Commission, whose job is to tear down barriers to free trade between its 25 member states to create a single market. 
 In the last couple of years, France has drawn criticism from European Union authorities for bailing out its engineering giant Alstom and for spurning possible joint ventures with Siemens of Germany. France also backed Sanofi-Synthelabo's bid for its pharmaceutical rival Aventis, leaving Novartis of Switzerland on the sidelines. 
 Legal specialists say winning approval for the new measures could be a delicate matter. 
 Christopher J. Mesnooh, a partner in Paris with the Hughes Hubbard law firm who represents some American companies considering investments in France, said, ''The French will want new rules that are broad enough to allow them to assert control over a wide range of firms in sectors defined as strategic but narrow enough to win European approval, and to assure investors from overseas of real influence over companies in which they take a stake.'' 
 Private investment firms are likely to be among the businesses irritated by what French government officials have called ''economic patriotism.'' With access to cheap borrowed cash, the firms have increased their activities in France in recent years. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts bought the electrical supplies company Legrand and Texas Pacific Group took a stake in the French smart-card maker Gemplus. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TRENDS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); ENGINEERING (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Law and Legislation 

COMPANY: DANONE SA (FRANCE) (91%); SANOFI SA (82%); PEPSICO INC (56%); SIEMENS AG (55%); ALSTOM SA (52%); NOVARTIS AG (52%); HUBBARD LAW FIRM PC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%) European Union

TICKER: DNN (BIT) (91%); BN (PAR) (91%); SNY (NYSE) (82%); SANF (BIT) (82%); SAN (PAR) (82%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (82%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); SIN (SWX) (55%); SIE (LSE) (55%); SIE (FRA) (55%); SIE (BIT) (55%); SI (NYSE) (55%); ALO (PAR) (52%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%) Thierry Breton; Jean-Francois Cope; James Kanter

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) France; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



18 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Hard New Test For President 

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Not since he sat in a Florida classroom as the World Trade Center burned a thousand miles away has President Bush faced a test quite like the one he returned to Washington to confront this afternoon.
 After initially stumbling through that disorienting day almost exactly four years ago, Mr. Bush entered what many of his aides believe were the finest hours of his presidency. But unlike 2001, when Mr. Bush was freshly elected and there was little question that the response would include a military strike, Mr. Bush confronts this disaster with his political capital depleted by the war in Iraq. 
Even before Hurricane Katrina, governors were beginning to question whether National Guard units stretched to the breaking point by service in Iraq would be available for domestic emergencies. Those concerns have now been amplified by scenes of looting and disorder. There is also the added question of whether the Department of Homeland Security, designed primarily to fight terrorism, can cope with what Mr. Bush called Wednesday ''one of the worst natural disasters in our country's history.''
 All this has inextricably linked Mr. Bush's foreign agenda, especially Iraq, to the issue of how well he manages the federal response to the monumental problems in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. Mr. Bush knows the risks. He saw up close the political damage done to his father 13 years ago this week, when the senior Mr. Bush was dispatching fighter jets to maintain a no-fly zone over parts of Iraq and promoting his trade agenda while 250,000 Floridians were reeling from the impact of Hurricane Andrew. 
 But the current president, in contrast, prides himself as a crisis manager. He observed in a debate with Vice President Al Gore in 2000 that natural catastrophes were ''a time to test your mettle.'' 
 The next few weeks will determine whether he can manage several challenges at once, in the chaos of Iraq and the humanitarian and economic fallout along the Gulf Coast. 
 Success could help him emerge from a troubled moment in his presidency, when his approval ratings have hit an all-time low. But it is hardly assured.
 His first challenge is to show that both his reconfigured government and the National Guard units can perform on both fronts. Mr. Bush, his aides pointed out Wednesday, declared a disaster even before the storm hit, enabling the Federal Emergency Management Agency to deploy early. But while the National Guard was called in quickly, there are already questions about whether the aid would be swifter if deployments to Iraq were not so intense: Mississippi has 3,800 Guard troops in Iraq, and Louisiana has about 3,000. 
 That leaves more than 60 percent of their Guard still in the state, which Joseph M. Allbaugh, one of Mr. Bush's closest friends and his first head of FEMA, said in an interview Wednesday should be plenty for the challenge ahead.
 ''If anyone is telling you that Iraq is getting in the way, well that's hogwash,'' Mr. Allbaugh said from Baton Rouge, where he was clinging to a bad cellphone connection while trying to help muster private industry to aid in the disaster relief. 
 The longer-term risk is that the storm's aftermath will push gasoline prices to a breaking point -- something Mr. Bush alluded to Wednesday when he warned that ''our citizens must understand this storm has disrupted the capacity to make gasoline and distribute gasoline.'' Even before returning to Washington, Mr. Bush approved loans from the country's Strategic Oil Reserve. But that is at best a short-term measure, and should prices continue to rise, Mr. Bush will inevitably confront the question of whether his administration was ill prepared to absorb an oil shock at a time of conflict in the Middle East.
 Mr. Bush's instinctive response to such moments, his longtime aides and friends say, is to set up measurements to determine whether his efforts are adequately addressing a problem. ''He likes being a hands-on manager,'' said Mr. Allbaugh. ''He wants numbers, he wants to be able to show that the ball is moving down the field.'' That was evident Wednesday in the Rose Garden, when Mr. Bush started ticking off statistics on the number of people rescued, the numbers of meals-ready-to-eat that have been delivered, the number of people already in shelters.
 It is reminiscent of how Mr. Bush has argued that progress is being made in Iraq. But as the administration has learned in Iraq, the imagery of violent chaos, repeated over and over, can undercut even the most frequently cited statistics. And so Mr. Bush's biggest risk may be an inability to control circumstances that are beyond his ability to shape from Washington. 
 ''The great thing about this president is that he doesn't try to use tragedy to gain immediate attention for himself,'' said Bob Martinez, a former governor of Florida who has endured his share of hurricanes and other disasters. ''He talks to those with knowledge, and then he acts.''
 But now, he said, ''there needs to be a powerful message to the country to energize the help,'' a message Mr. Bush plans to amplify, his aides say, when he visits the stricken areas, probably Friday or Saturday. Mr. Martinez noted that ''the risk is that there is sometimes a big disconnect between you when you speak and when bottles of water end up in people's hands.''
 That may be a more complicated problem in this disaster, veterans of such operations warn, than it was after 9/11. Mr. Allbaugh noted that for all the horror of that day, the immediate damage was confined to ''16 acres in New York'' and part of the Pentagon, and ''here you have hundreds of thousands of square miles'' of misery. And the problems in the region will vary tremendously, from caring for the newly homeless in New Orleans to wiped-out ports along the coast.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush peered from a window on Air Force One yesterday, surveying storm damage in a low-level flight along the Gulf Coast. (Photo by Mannie Garcia/Reuters)(pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); TERRORISM (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); United States Armament and Defense; Andrew (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%) National Guard (US); Homeland Security Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; George (Former Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Florida; Alabama; Mississippi ; Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



19 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL: THE ISSUES -- Taxes and Spending; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Candidates Propose Low-Dose Cures for Fiscal Ills 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
New York City has been through a jarring fiscal ride over the last four years, veering from a severe budget crisis to recent relative prosperity. Ahead could be more hard times: a projected $4.5 billion deficit for the coming fiscal year. Yet the four Democratic mayoral candidates have, for the most part, avoided addressing how they would bridge this gap.
 The candidates have instead offered budget proposals that essentially nibble around the edges. Fernando Ferrer wants to tax stock trades for four years to raise a total of $4 billion for the schools.
Anthony D. Weiner proposes cutting the city income tax by 10 percent for people who earn less than $150,000 annually, and raising it for millionaires. 
 Gifford Miller favors cutting taxes for small businesses, renters and the working poor, but canceling a planned tax cut for the wealthiest, and raising taxes for some insurance companies. 
 C. Virginia Fields said she would focus on reducing the city's debt, and would not raise taxes for city residents or businesses.
 All the candidates assert that they would fight harder than Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to wrest more aid from Albany and Washington. 
 Often absent from the candidates' stump speeches are detailed plans for confronting long-term problems in the city's finances, which are burdened by rising costs for Medicaid, pensions and debt service. For now, the real estate boom has generated robust tax revenues that have allowed the city to patch holes in its $50 billion budget. But the boom is unlikely to continue, even as those expenses continue to rise.
 ''There hasn't been nearly enough discussion of the tough choices that have to be made to close next year's $4.5 billion budget gap,'' said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan research group that does not endorse candidates. ''Those choices have to be made very soon after the election,'' she said. ''It's certainly not surprising from a political perspective, but of course it doesn't do the electorate any favors when one of the top challenges of governing the city is off the radar screen during the campaign.'' 
 Mr. Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, has presented one of the more provocative initiatives of the primary with his call to raise money for the schools by temporarily reinstating a tax on Wall Street, an economic engine of the city. 
 ''If we don't graduate more kids with all the tools they need either for a skilled job or a college education, businesses will leave because we're not producing qualified, trained and ready workers for them,'' he said. ''And that's the future of this city, making an investment in the future of this city that pays big dividends.''
 For four years, sellers of stock would pay a surcharge: between an eighth of a cent and a half-cent per share, depending on the value of the stock, up to a maximum of $35. The tax once existed in a different form.
 Business leaders would support the tax, Mr. Ferrer said, because they need a more educated work force. He added that he would spend $250 million to help Wall Street modernize. 
 His Democratic opponents and many trade groups, like the Securities Industry Association, have countered that the tax would drive business away. Mr. Weiner, for example, compared Mr. Ferrer to ''someone in Wisconsin proposing a dairy tax.''
 Like nearly all the candidates' tax plans, Mr. Ferrer's would require the approval of the governor and the Legislature, which seems far from assured. 
 Ms. Fields, the Manhattan borough president, is not offering significant proposals for cuts or increases in taxes, besides restoring the so-called commuter tax, which was repealed by the state in 1999 (and which would not be paid by New York City voters). Reinstating that tax would also require state approval, and leaders of both parties in Albany have refused to consider it.
 Ms. Fields also said she would focus on creating new jobs, which she said would generate taxes and cut costs. For example, she said, people who obtain jobs with health insurance could leave Medicaid, the health care system for the poor. She said she would try to keep people out of expensive nursing homes, paid for by Medicaid, and offer them home health aides instead.
 ''My approach is not in terms of increasing taxes, but it is to look at growth, creating jobs so that we can create a tax base in order to pay for more of the services,'' she said. ''My focus is on restoring services, not taking taxes or revenue out of the budget.''
 She said she would pay for more infrastructure projects out of operating revenue to avoid borrowing. The goal would be to cut $2.4 billion over four years from the city's long-term debt, which is about $50 billion. 
 All the candidates have shied away from proposals to overhaul the pension system for municipal workers, which has become a growing drain on the budget but is fiercely protected by unions. ''Pensioners are, by and large, middle-class New Yorkers, and money going to them is money that I want to go to them,'' Mr. Weiner said.
 Mr. Weiner, a congressman from Queens and Brooklyn, has sought to stake out a claim as a defender of the middle-class wallet with his signature proposal, a 10 percent cut in city income taxes for people earning less than $150,000. The plan would cost $207 million annually, which would come in part from raising the same tax on millionaires.
 ''Middle-class New Yorkers are wondering what the Democratic Party stands for,'' Mr. Weiner said. ''And in my view, we have to articulate the idea their taxes are not too low, as Mike Bloomberg has implied. They're too high.''
 Mr. Weiner has declared that he would ''cut or reform the bottom 5 percent worst-performing city programs every year,'' reducing costs by as much as $1.7 billion. That would include cutting $920 million from Medicaid by tackling fraud.
 The city pays about 20 percent of the cost of Medicaid, but because the program is run by Albany under state and federal rules, the mayor has little if any control over how the money is spent.
 State officials have recently vowed to go after Medicaid fraud, and Mr. Weiner said the city should mount its own aggressive effort.
 Still, the $920 million goal for a city Medicaid fraud crackdown is ambitious. To have a chance of even approaching it, the city would have to create a substantial investigative bureaucracy, which state officials are likely to block because it would usurp some of their authority. Such anti-fraud campaigns are also typically resisted by influential health care groups, which contend that they are being unfairly singled out.
 What's more, because the city pays only a portion of Medicaid, much of the money recovered through city fraud inquiries would not go to city coffers, but rather would be returned to the state and federal governments.
 Mr. Miller, the City Council speaker, has mocked Mr. Weiner's plans to cut waste. ''There's nothing new about making a bunch of promises that you can't keep, that aren't painful to anybody,'' Mr. Miller said. ''That's the oldest trick in the book.''
 Responding to Mr. Miller's criticism at one of the debates, Mr. Weiner said, ''This is the problem with the status quo of our party. If you think we can't cut out waste, at least 5 percent, like I proposed, you shouldn't be mayor.''
 Mr. Miller wants to maintain a temporary income tax surcharge for people who earn more than $500,000, and use the revenue to reduce class sizes in the public schools. The tax surcharge is scheduled to expire at the end of the year.
 He is also pushing an array of tax cuts. He would provide $200 million in cuts and credits for businesses with fewer than 500 employees.
 He would double the city's earned income tax credit, a program that lowers city taxes for the working poor. And he would offer a tax credit of as much as $1,000 for renters who earn less than $100,000, but do not qualify for the earned income tax credit.
 Mr. Miller described the proposal as an innovative way of making rents more affordable. ''I agree we need to give relief to the middle class,'' Mr. Miller said. ''It just needs to be realistic relief, not promising things we can't keep.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B10)Chart: ''How the Candidates Would Handle Taxes and the Budget''The top initiatives of each of the four Democratic candidates for mayor.C. Virginia FieldsReduce long-term debt by $2.4 billion by paying down the principal and by financing capital projects through operating revenues, not borrowing.Adopt policies to create more jobs, cutting costs for programs like Medicaid.Reinstitute commuter tax.Anthony D. WeinerCut city income taxes by 10 percent for people earning less than $150,000.Raise city income tax for millionaires.Cut or overhaul the worst-performing city programs.Reduce costs by as much as $1.7 billion, including 920 million from crackdown on Medicaid fraud.Force Albany to pay property taxes on stateowned properties in city.Gifford MillerDouble earned income tax credit for working poor.Give $200 million in tax cuts and credits to businesses with fewer than 500 workers.Offer tax credit of as much as $1,000 for renters who earn less than $100,000, but do not qualify for earned income tax credit.Cancel income tax cut for people earning more than $500,000.Reinstitute commuter tax.Fernando FerrerAdopt temporary tax on stock trades to raise total of $4 billion over four years.Use the money from the tax for education.Allocate $250 million to modernize Wall Street.(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); TAX LAW (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); MEDICAID (73%); INSURANCE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); REAL ESTATE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (74%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



20 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Life in the Bottom 80 Percent

 BODY:
Economic growth isn't what it used to be. In 2004, the economy grew a solid 3.8 percent. But for the fifth straight year, median household income was basically flat, at $44,389 in 2004, the Census Bureau said Tuesday. That's the longest stretch of income stagnation on record. 
 Economic growth was also no elixir for the 800,000 additional workers who found themselves without health insurance in 2004. Were it not for increased coverage by military insurance and Medicaid, the ranks of the uninsured -- now 45.8 million -- would be even larger. And 1.1 million more people fell into poverty in 2004, bringing the ranks of poor Americans to 37 million.
When President Bush talks about the economy, he invariably boasts about good economic growth. But he doesn't acknowledge what is apparent from the census figures: as the very rich get even richer, their gains can mask the stagnation and deterioration at less lofty income levels. 
 This week's census report showed that income inequality was near all-time highs in 2004, with 50.1 percent of income going to the top 20 percent of households. And additional census data obtained by the Economic Policy Institute show that only the top 5 percent of households experienced real income gains in 2004. Incomes for the other 95 percent of households were flat or falling. 
 Income inequality is an economic and social ill, but the administration and the Congressional majority don't seem to recognize that. When Congress returns from its monthlong summer vacation next week, two of the leadership's top priorities include renewing the push to repeal the estate tax, which affects only the wealthiest of families, and extending the tax cuts for investment income, which flow largely to the richest Americans. At the other end of the spectrum, lawmakers have stubbornly refused to raise the minimum wage: $5.15 an hour since 1997. They will also be taking up proposals for deep budget cuts in programs that ameliorate income inequality, like Medicaid, food stamps and federal student loans. 
 They should be ashamed of themselves. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CENSUS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MEDICAID (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TAX INCENTIVES (79%); FAMILY (79%); BUDGETS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); ESTATE TAX (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX RELIEF (63%); STUDENT LOANS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) United States Economy; Editorials; Income

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005



21 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Interpublic Picks Up Credit Suisse Account

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
A day after the Interpublic Group of Companies learned that it would lose Bank of America as a client, two Interpublic agencies said they had been awarded the assignment to create campaigns for another large financial services marketer, Credit Suisse. The account, with spending estimated at $100 million, had been handled for the last four years by Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of Havas. 
McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of Interpublic, will produce ads to run everywhere but the United States, where its Interpublic sibling, the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., will handle the task. The Credit Suisse decision was announced yesterday after a review that had included McCann Erickson, using its Frankfurt office as the lead agency; Euro RSCG, led by its London office; Kirshenbaum Bond in New York, part of MDC Partners; Lowe Worldwide, another Interpublic agency; and StrawberryFrog in Amsterdam. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%) Advertising and Marketing; Account Changes

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (96%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (83%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (72%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); HAVAS SA (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Interpublic Group of Cos; Mccann Erickson Worldwide; Martin Agency; Credit Suisse Group

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (96%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); HAV (PAR) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (56%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (53%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); NETHERLANDS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



22 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Antiques; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Leviathan, Thy Bounty Made Nantucket Shine

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:
Around 1690, legend has it, a group of men standing on a bluff on Nantucket, the windswept island 24 miles south of Cape Cod, saw a pod of whales offshore. Pointing to the whales, one man reportedly said, ''There is a green pasture where our children's grandchildren will go for bread.'' 
 From the 1730's through the 1840's, Nantucket's economy thrived on the whale fishery, which produced a fine sperm-whale oil sold all over the world at great profit. This was the high-grade oil ''that lit the streets and lubricated the machines of the industrial age,'' Nathaniel Philbrick writes in ''In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex'' (Penguin, 2000). 
The whaling business involved practically the entire Nantucket population, which grew to 10,000 by the 1830's. Ancillary enterprises included boatbuilding shops, ship chandleries, sail lofts, cooperages, rope works and candle factories. (For example, the coopers' shops produced some 50,000 white-oak oil casks a year.)
 Others islanders -- blacksmiths, sheep farmers, flax weavers and tanners, among them -- profited by provisioning the ships and their crews. By 1820 the town of Nantucket was one of the richest in America, home port to 70 whaling ships. 
 Nantucket's Whaling Museum tells the island's whale-oriented history through paintings (including one by Gilbert Stuart), engraved scrimshaw, prized Nantucket lightship baskets, carved bow sprits, needlepoint samplers, sailor's valentines, Native American artifacts and a giant Fresnel lens from the Sankaty Head lighthouse in Siasconset. 
 ''The lens is an icon of Nantucket visually and symbolically,'' said Niles Parker, chief curator of the museum. ''Nantucket whale oil lit the lighthouse, and the lighthouse represents Nantucket's past.''
 This year the museum celebrated its 75th anniversary with a $12 million expansion. Its setting is part of its attraction: half of it is a vast former spermaceti candle factory that retains the giant apparatus used to press sperm whale oil, much like olives or grapes. At one point, before the advent of kerosene, Nantucket sold 35,000 boxes of candles a year.
 Another section displays the skeleton of a 47-foot-long sperm whale. 
 ''This is the whale that put Nantucket on the map,'' Mr. Parker said, referring to the prized square-headed sperm whale, as opposed to the right whale, which is smaller and has a C-shaped head (It was called ''right'' because it was the right whale to catch). Long Island and Massachusetts whalers caught right whales, which were easier to find. Nantucketers dedicated themselves to the pursuit of sperm whales because the oil produced from them was three times more lucrative. 
 ''Sperm oil burned clearer and brighter,'' Mr. Parker said. ''Thomas Jefferson, for example, preferred sperm-oil candles.''
 The whale skeleton suspended from the museum's ceiling appears to be diving into a fully rigged old whaleboat on the ground. The boat is similar to the ones used in the hunts that Mr. Philbrick, a research fellow at the Nantucket Historical Association, describes in ''In the Heart of the Sea.'' The book, which recounts the real incident that inspired Melville's ''Moby-Dick,'' won a National Book Award for its tale of the fatal attack by an 80-foot rogue sperm whale on the ship Essex in November 1820. 
 Ship logs, journals and other displays prove the islanders' perseverance in the face of every conceivable obstacle: shipwrecks on unmarked shoals, attacks from privateers, squalls, hidden icebergs, scurvy, crew desertion and near starvation. 
 ''Few interests have exerted a more marked influence upon the history of the United States than that of its fisheries,'' the Nantucket native Alexander Starbuck writes in ''The History of the American Whale Fishery'' (Castle Books, 1989). ''They have always been found to be the nurseries of a hardy, daring and indefatigable race of seamen such as scarcely any other pursuit could have trained. The pioneers of the sea, whalemen were the advanced guard, the forlorn hope of civilization.''
 He continues: ''No extremes of heat or cold could daunt them, no thought of danger hold them in check. Their lives have ever been one continual round of hairbreadth escapes, in which the risk was alike shared by officers and men.''
 In time, Nantucket's whalers so overfished the northern Atlantic that they had to go farther and farther to find the prized sperm whales: to the coasts off Africa, Brazil, Chile, even to the Fiji Islands. In the late 1700's, whaling voyages lasted about nine months. By the mid-1800's, an expedition could extend to the remotest reaches of the Pacific and take three years. No wonder sailors engraved so much scrimshaw.
 Nantucket is ''farther out to sea and has fewer natural resources than Martha's Vineyard, so it concentrated on whaling,'' Mr. Parker said. ''There is less farming here and real physical isolation.'' 
 The island was dominated by Quakers, who were among the first Americans to ban slavery. The island's African-Americans often served as crews on the whale ships.
 Nantucket means ''faraway land'' in the language of the Wampanoag Indians, the island's original inhabitants. Whaling captains employed them, the African-Americans and just about anyone else on the island, including teenage boys. ''Still, the island didn't have enough able-bodied seamen to fill all the positions on the ships,'' Mr. Parker said. ''The lesser-paying and less-attractive jobs were filled by 'green hands,' men, often with no previous sailing experience, who were picked up on the mainland or along the way.''
 The crews were diverse. ''There were Portuguese from the Azores, Africans from the Cape Verde Islands, Hawaiians and Samoans from the Pacific,'' Mr. Parker said. ''People in places like the Sandwich Islands, a popular provisioning stop, sometimes came back to Nantucket to live.''
 During the whaling heyday, the island was unbelievably prosperous. Mr. Philbrick said a ship agent could expect a return on his investment of 28 percent to 44 percent a year. 
 Nantucket's whaling business lasted until the 1860's. ''It was eclipsed by New Bedford, Mass., which had a deeper harbor and better access to the railroad,'' Mr. Parker said. ''The silting up of our harbor, the advent of kerosene lighting and the onset of the Civil War speeded the demise.'' 
 The newly expanded Whaling Museum, one of 24 properties run by the Nantucket Historical Association, seems to be popular. Frank Milligan, the director of the historical association, said the museum welcomed 500 to 1,200 visitors a day this summer.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A large detail from Gilbert Stuart's portrait of an admiral, Sir Isaac Coffin, in the historical collection at the Whaling Museum in Nantucket. Below, its skeleton of a 47-foot sperm whale that washed ashore. (Photo by Nantucket Historical Association)
 (Photo by Jeffrey S. Allen/Nantucket Historical Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (91%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PAINTING (75%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); WOOD CONTAINER & PALLET MFG (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); NOVELTIES & ORNAMENTS MFG (72%); BOAT BUILDING (67%); NATIVE AMERICANS (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (51%); SHEEP FARMING (51%) Whales and Whaling 

ORGANIZATION: NANTUCKET HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION (84%) Whaling Museum (Nantucket, Mass)

PERSON: Wendy Moonan

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Nantucket (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



23 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: DONATIONS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: In a Multitude of Forms, the Offers of Help Pour In

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN; Reporting for this article was contributed by Geraldine Fabrikant, Bill Carter and Denise Grady in New York; Gretchen Ruethling in Chicago; Drew Digby in Duluth, Minn.; and Terry Aguayo in Miami.

 BODY:
Americans are opening their wallets, homes and hearts to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina in an outpouring expected to rival the response to the Asian tsunami and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, with donations and pledges from individuals and businesses already nearing $100 million by midday yesterday.
 The American Red Cross, which is leading the relief effort, had received $71 million by the end of Wednesday, more than half the $130 million it has promised to raise and two-thirds of the $109 million collected for the four hurricanes that hit Florida last year combined.
 The group's Help Now Web site had 150,000 hits, the most for one day in its history, on Wednesday, and has been deluged at its local offices with offers of volunteers, many of whom are being turned away for lack of training.
 ''It eclipses everything right now,'' said Ryland Dodge, a Red Cross spokesman.
 Television announced plans for several celebrity-studded telethons -- tonight on NBC, Tuesday on all major broadcast networks simultaneously and Sept. 10 on MTV -- while Jerry Lewis's Labor Day extravaganza for muscular dystrophy has promised $1 million for hurricane victims. 
 Corporations opened their coffers, led by $10 million from UnitedHealth Group's foundation, and many matched money with material: Kellogg sent seven truckloads of NutriGrain bars, crackers and cookies south, U-Haul offered 30 days of free storage to affected families and Nissan said it would lend 50 full-size trucks for a month. The chief executive of Delta Airlines flew from Atlanta to New Orleans on Wednesday in a 757 stuffed with 20,000 pounds of cots, blankets, food, generators and toilet paper, and returned with 150 stranded employees and passengers.
 In Duluth, Minn., the mayor yesterday asked each of the 87,000 residents -- and those in surrounding towns -- to give $10 each, in hopes of raising $1 million in a week. In Pasadena, Calif., Red Cross volunteers had collected $155,963 from 1,500 cars by noon in a daylong ''drive-by fund-raiser'' at the Rose Bowl, where one man brought a water-cooler bottle filled with pennies he had saved over 15 years.
 In Parkland, Fla., students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School have ordered 4,000 strands of Mardi Gras beads they plan to sell for $2 each starting today in hopes of igniting a new fad to rival the ubiquitous yellow rubber ''Livestrong'' bracelets.
 David Grad, the school's student government adviser and athletic director, said, ''In light of the devastation, let's stand behind the philosophy of partying and use the concept because we can't have any partying now.''
 President Bush, who appointed his father and former President Bill Clinton yesterday to lead fund-raising efforts for the hurricane as they did in the aftermath of the tsunami, said in his speech to the nation Wednesday, ''At this stage in the recovery efforts, it's important for those who want to contribute to contribute cash.''
 But many people said that the vastness of the devastation, the fact that many of the victims seemed so desperately poor, and personal connections to New Orleans compelled them to go beyond the instinctive act of writing a check. Memories of honeymoons in the French Quarter, revelry at Mardi Gras parades and even debauched evenings downing the city's signature rum-and-lime-juice cocktail, the Hurricane, have made Hurricane Katrina touch Americans more deeply. 
 ''I've been to New Orleans, I know people who are living there -- it seems more personal,'' said Susie Meredith, 32, a law student in Grosse Pointe, Mich., who posted a message on www.katrinahelp.com offering to make long-distance telephone calls or run errands for displaced people. ''It's Americans. It's me.''
 Thousands of families -- from millionaires with mansions in Marin County, Calif., to a machine operator willing to have people pitch tents in his backyard in rural North Carolina -- have posted messages on the Internet inviting refugees to stay with them or move permanently to their towns.
 Many have offered to drive toward the disaster zone to pick up refugees; Gaea Walters, 28, a systems engineer in Monroe, La., was headed last night to a shelter at the local civic center in search of a three-member family to fill her extra bedroom and bathroom for the foreseeable future. 
 Ms. Walters said she was once unemployed and on government assistance. ''Now I'm in a position where I can help somebody, and I'm just dying to be able to,'' she said.
 On www.nola.com, the Web site for The Times-Picayune, the New Orleans daily, employers offered the newly jobless the next line on their resumes: carpenters and roofers are wanted in Montana, nurses in Virginia, skilled machinists in St. Petersburg, Fla., and a nanny on Staten Island. On craigslist.com, people in Kansas and Texas offered to stable abandoned horses; a certified rescue diver in Florida offered to dive for bodies in the flooded streets of New Orleans; a pilot offered to help with his small plane; and several people offered frequent-flier miles.
 A company based in Indianapolis that sells equipment to destroy medical and biological waste, WR2, is ready to adopt a family, promising a $50,000-a-year job, an apartment, new clothes, groceries and a car. 
 ''If 1,000 companies in Indiana alone do this, then 4,000 people can regain hope,'' said Laurie Farris, executive administrator of the company, where 3 of the 53 employees are New Orleans natives. ''If, nationally, 50,000 companies do this, then 200,000 people can begin their life again, and we would then be making a major impact at addressing this problem.''
 The Chronicle of Philanthropy, a newspaper that tracks charitable giving, said contributions exploded late Wednesday and early yesterday, putting the hurricane on pace to equal or exceed the amounts raised for the tsunami and the Sept. 11 attacks.
 About a third of the total has come from corporations, which gave 26 percent of the $2.7 billion after the terrorist attacks and 37 percent of the $1.5 billion raised for tsunami relief. Already Chevron, which has extensive operations in the Gulf Coast, has pledged $5 million in cash; Dow Chemical $3 million, including $1 million in products and technology; Wal-Mart and Exxon $2 million each. Mattel announced it would send $100,000 to the Red Cross -- plus thousands of toys to hurricane refugees in temporary shelters.

How to Help Those Hurt by the Storm
 Following are organizations and groups that the Federal Emergency Management Agency says are collecting donations or offers of help: 

ADVENTIST COMMUNITY SERVICES
(800) 381-7171

AMERICAN RED CROSS
(800) HELP NOW (435-7669) English; (800) 257-7575 Spanish.

AMERICA'S SECOND HARVEST
(800) 344-8070

B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL
(888)-388-4224

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, USA
(703) 549-1390

CHRISTIAN DISASTER RESPONSE
(941) 956-5183 or (941) 551-9554

CHRISTIAN REFORMED WORLD RELIEF COMMITTEE
(800) 848-5818

CHURCH WORLD SERVICE
(800) 297-1516

CONVOY OF HOPE
(417) 823-8998

CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE DISASTER RELIEF FUND
(202) 606-6718

FEED THE CHILDREN
(800) 525-7575

LUTHERAN DISASTER RESPONSE
(800) 638-3522

MENNONITE DISASTER SERVICE
(717) 859-2210

NAZARENE DISASTER RESPONSE
(888) 256-5886

OPERATION BLESSING
(800) 436-6348

PRESBYTERIAN DISASTER ASSISTANCE
(800) 872-3283

SALVATION ARMY
(800) SAL-ARMY (725-2769)

SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION -- DISASTER RELIEF
(800) 462-8657, ext. 6440

UNION FOR REFORM JUDAISM
(212) 650-4140

UNITED JEWISH COMMUNITIES
(800) 462-8657, ext. 6440

UNITED METHODIST COMMITTEE ON RELIEF
(800) 554-8583


CORRECTION-DATE: September 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A listing yesterday of groups collecting donations for hurricane victims misstated the phone number for United Jewish Communities. It is (877) 277-2477.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker for the American Red Cross, which had received $71 million in donations as of Wednesday, helping evacuees in Baton Rouge, La. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); TSUNAMIS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CHARITIES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); MAYORS (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); AIRLINES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); GENETIC DISEASES (52%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Philanthropy

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (90%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (55%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JERRY LEWIS (51%); BILL CLINTON (50%) Jodi Wilgoren

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); DULUTH, MN, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



24 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: PRICES AT THE PUMP -- The Post-Katrina Calculus of Fuel Prices; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: You Want How Much a Gallon?

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
At a downtown Marathon gasoline station here, gas prices did something strange in the wake of the deadly Hurricane Katrina -- they fell 25 cents a gallon, to $3.45, for regular unleaded fuel.
 The dealer, Jim Klun, dropped his prices Thursday after Marathon Petroleum, the company that supplies his gasoline, admitted through a distributor Wednesday that it had increased prices too much in the confusion that has gripped gasoline suppliers and retailers all over the country since Monday's storm.
Far from the devastation that caused flooding in New Orleans and other cities along the Gulf Coast, Mr. Klun is one of many dealers caught between oil companies and angry consumers. 
 Motorists often wonder if rapidly rising pump prices are a sign of price gouging. But dealers insist that is not necessarily the case. Typically, they keep only one to three days of supply on hand, and they claim that they have to raise prices to afford the next delivery of higher-price fuel.
 Service stations usually add a profit margin of 10 to 25 cents a gallon onto the wholesale price. Of course, the steep pump-price increases in the last week mean that some dealers may be tacking on a much higher profit margin. While there are no price controls, laws in some states do place general limitations on gas price increases. 
 Dealers say they frequently take the heat for huge price increases, but most are at the mercy of large oil companies that set the price they pay for their wholesale fuel. 
 Mr. Klun said he consistently priced 20 cents over his wholesale cost. Even with gasoline prices at $2.99 the morning of the hurricane, posting a $3.69 price on Wednesday shook him like never before.
 ''I've never been close to that,'' Mr. Klun said Thursday, sitting in the backroom of the gas station his family has run on the edge of the Kennedy Expressway since 1962. On Wednesday, Mr. Klun was notified by his distributor, Parent Petroleum of St. Charles, Ill., that Marathon would be paying him a 26-cents-a-gallon credit for gas he overpaid for.
 Across the country dealers posted eye-popping gasoline prices Thursday, reflecting panic in both dealers and consumers not seen since the days after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Some stations on the East Coast and in the Midwest posted prices well over $3 a gallon, putting their prices more in line with those of the West Coast, where prices have traditionally been the highest in recent years. The average price for regular unleaded spiked 6.1 cents, to $2.68 a gallon, from Wednesday to Thursday, according to AAA, the nation's largest motoring organization. Pump prices are 44 percent higher than a year ago, AAA said.
 But some dealers posted far crazier prices. Near Atlanta, a BP dealer charged $5.87 a gallon for regular unleaded, later telling reporters and his distributor that he panicked after almost running out a few times.
 Scott Dean, a spokesman for BP, said it did not condone the dealer's price. Mr. Dean said the Georgia man was an independent dealer not employed by BP and that he purchases BP gasoline from a third-party distributor. ''We did not set the price of that station,'' Mr. Dean said. In several states, including Alabama and Illinois, attorneys general said they were closely monitoring gasoline prices for signs of gouging. 
 While some consumers are chronically suspicious of the price-setting of gasoline stations, in normal times gasoline prices are set by a combination of supply of both crude oil and gasoline and the demand for gasoline. The price of crude oil generally accounts for more than half the cost of a gallon of gasoline, with the rest of the cost being taxes, refining cost and distribution and marketing. 
 But most of those normal rules for how gasoline is priced have been thrown out the window by the hurricane damage, several gasoline market analysts said. 
 ''There is a lot of mass confusion,'' said Mike Burdette, an economist at the Energy Information Administration, an arm of the Department of Energy. ''Everyone is protecting themselves to make sure they can afford the next load.'' 
 Mr. Klun is an independent dealer, owning his own station and land. But he gets Marathon gasoline through Parent Petroleum, which delivers gas to more than 200 Chicago area stations, including 70 Marathon outlets. Shocked by the high price he was being charged for his gasoline, he called Parent Petroleum on Wednesday to let officials there know that the Illinois attorney general had inquired about his station's prices. Then early Thursday he was notified by Parent that he would be receiving a 26-cents-a-gallon credit.
 ''We apologize for all the inconvenience caused,'' wrote Peter Mancini, president of Parent Petroleum, in a memo. 
 Mr. Mancini, in an interview, said that on Aug. 30 he got the daily price quotes from Citgo, Mobil and Marathon. Marathon had gone up 45 cents, ''like 30 cents higher than anyone else that night.''
 Mr. Mancini called Marathon to ask what was wrong. After a day of back and forth, the company came back with the rebate. Only eight or nine stations had customers that bought at the highest prices, he said.
 ''They should be contacting the Marathons of the world,'' he said, referring to the attorney general's office. ''It's sad that the public thinks dealers are the ones making huge money.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At a Marathon station in Chicago, prices fell yesterday. (Photo by Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); WEATHER (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); RETAILERS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Behavior; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (92%); MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Aaa

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (92%); MPC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Eastern States (US); Western States (US); Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



25 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Street Scene; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: A Flush Mideast Is Ready to Deal 

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Thanks to the surge in crude oil prices, Middle Eastern companies, governments and many families in the region have found themselves flush with cash, igniting a flurry of deal making and investment in Europe, Asia and the United States. 
 Bankers and financial advisers have started comparing the new infusion of money to the oil-price-spurred buying sprees of the 1970's and 1980's -- but say that there are some major differences this time around.
''There's a new oil boom taking place'' said Mounzer A. Nasr, a London-based executive director of Arcapita, a private equity firm that follows Islamic law, or Sharia, governing investing. The firm oversees $8.1 billion in investments. Middle Eastern investors are more sophisticated and discerning than they were the last time oil prices soared, advisers like Mr. Nasr say, and are allocating their capital to different places than they have in the past. 
 The money that is being rapidly generated by Middle East oil is difficult to tally comprehensively, but by any measure it is growing fast. ''We're talking about an oil boom that is generating vast sums of money,'' and much of it has to be invested outside the region, said Simon Williams, a senior economist with the Economist Intelligence Unit in London who focuses on the Middle East. 
 Capital controlled by wealthy individuals in the Middle East grew 28.9 percent, to $1 trillion, from 2003 to 2004, Merrill Lynch and CapGemini estimated in a report this summer. That rate of growth is faster than in any other region of the world, and the Middle East is expected to outpace the rest of the globe until at least 2009, with individual wealth growing 9.1 percent a year. 
 Already this year, state-controlled investment groups like Dubai International Capital have made sizable purchases in Europe, including a $1 billion stake in DaimlerChrysler and the buyout of the Madame Tussauds entertainment group.
 The kinds of investments are different from those made in the 1970's and 1980's, when United States real estate soaked up Middle East petrodollars. Cash has gone first to local real estate and stock markets. The Kuwaiti stock market index is up 52 percent this year alone, for example, and luxury home prices in some areas of Dubai have increased three-fold since 2003. 
 Now many Middle Eastern investors are increasingly looking to diversify, and the United States is not necessarily their first stop. A combination of political concerns over the war in Iraq and increased regulatory oversight may make Europe and Asia more attractive for Middle East investors during this oil boom, bankers and advisers say. 
 ''We don't see the flow back to the United States the way we did in the 1970's,'' said Peter Charlton, the global head of Clifford Chance's corporate practice. Instead, after local markets, Middle Eastern investors are looking at Central Europe, Turkey and Asia. 
 ''There is this feeling among some decision makers that they will look at Islamic countries'' when they are making investment decisions, said Mian Zaheen, a Lazard managing director who helped broker the Madame Tussauds deal.
 The Dhabi Group, for example, has bought banks in Pakistan, and is setting up a nationwide fiber optic network there. ''This is all to do with solidarity'' between governments, diversification and good economics, Mr. Zaheen said.
 Nearly every big investment bank and private equity fund is hoping to harness some of this liquidity. Citigroup, for example, is trying to increase cooperation between its private client managers who have Middle Eastern customers and its investment bankers who do private equity deals. J.P. Morgan Chase has a business development team focused on bringing in clients from the region. 
 European politicians are also showing interest in attracting Middle Eastern money. In March, Dubai Bank and the consulting company ECMG said they would create an Islamic-German private equity fund to invest in Germany's middle-market companies. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany attended the signing of the agreement in the United Arab Emirates this spring.
 Private equity firms, which have been starting huge funds, could be big benefactors. A significant proportion of the indications of interest in the Blackstone Group's new fund, which is expected to be more than $10 billion and close in 2006, are believed to be from the Middle East. 
 Bankers and advisers say that the other big change from the last oil boom is the level of financial education that most Middle Eastern investors now have.
 The younger generation of Middle Eastern investors is ''very different'' from the one that came before, Mr. Nasr of Arcapita said. ''They are more educated, sophisticated and have more clear ideas about what they want to invest in.''
 Gone are the days when a Middle Eastern investor talked only to a private banker, said the head of one global bank's Middle East team in London. Instead, these clients are often handled like a large company, and meet with a team of research analysts, foreign exchange specialists and bankers, he said. 
 ''There is lot of modernization in these companies,'' Mr. Zaheen said. The era of Western investment banks ''offering just fund management business is over,'' he said. ''They now also have to offer private equity and other forms of investment to the major investors.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mounzer A. Nasr, left, and Henry A. Thompson in the London office of Arcapita, a private equity firm that follows Islamic law when investing. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); RELIGION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); TRENDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); IRAQ WAR (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Investments; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Islam; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CLIFFORD CHANCE LLP (58%); CAPGEMINI SA (54%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; Cap Gemini Sa; Dubai International Capital; Arcapita

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (54%); ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons; Mounzer A Nasr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) MIDDLE EAST (98%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%) Middle East; Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



26 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; PHOTOGRAPHY REVIEW; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Documenting New York Places, Both Then and Now

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
Not to be confused with the works of photographic appropriators like Sherrie Levine and Richard Prince, rephotography is a specialized genre that entails finding the exact spot where an old photograph was taken and shooting the scene again. Demanding professionals use equipment similar to what was used to make the old photograph, and try to mimic exactly the framing, time of day and other salient aspects of the original picture. 
 The idea is that by minimizing photographic differences, you highlight differences caused by the vagaries of time in the subject. A well-known example was ''Second View: The Rephotographic Survey Project,'' for which Mark Klett and a team of photographers in the late 1970's reshot 19th-century landscapes by photographers like William Henry Jackson, Timothy O'Sullivan and Carleton Watkins. A related, more personal approach is Nicholas Nixon's continuing series of portraits of the four Brown sisters that he has taken annually since 1975. 
 In recent years, younger artists have been showing rephotographs of old family photographs in hip New York galleries. And if you conduct a Google search of ''rephotography,'' you find amateur Web sites devoted to personal rephotography projects and a professor in France who has his students rephotographing Atget photographs.
 Now a recent landmark in rephotography history titled ''New York Changing: Douglas Levere Revisits Berenice Abbott's New York'' is on view at the Museum of the City of New York. The show presents 50 cityscapes from the Modernist photographer Berenice Abbott's 1939 book ''Changing New York,'' each paired with a picture shot from the same perspective with the same model large-format camera by the commercial photographer Douglas Levere between 1997 and 2003.
 Mr. Levere's project is impressive as a feat of photographic craftsmanship and professional stamina, though perhaps only other photographers will fully appreciate its degree of difficulty. For the rest of us, the interest is mainly in seeing and comparing how New York looked then and how it looks now.
 The differences between Abbott's pictures and Mr. Levere's range from nearly imperceptible to almost total. A large brick warehouse appears unchanged but for its new windows, the building having been turned into a luxury condominium, according to the wall label. A statue of Lafayette in Union Square remains the same, but a tree in the middle distance has grown up.
 The monumental Beaux Arts-style allegorical sculptures outside the Custom House in Bowling Green are still there, but the Victorian facade behind them has turned into a shiny, 50's-style Modernist grid; a pedestrian bridge between two office buildings at Exchange Place and Williams Street is no longer there, and the antique street lamps have been replaced by modern, streamlined lights. The Skyport, where seaplanes that taxied executives from Westchester County to Wall Street used to dock, is now a ferry terminal.
 This is all so absorbing that a viewer risks incurring whiplash from looking back and forth between images. Whether Mr. Levere's rephotography is deeply compelling as art or as history, however, is a more complicated question. He is not, after all, revealing or expressing anything that in a general sense we don't already know.
 Abbott, by contrast, was using photography to convey an experience of what was to her an amazingly dynamic new world. Her vertiginous views of soaring skyscrapers and sunlit metropolitan canyons, pictures of Art Deco towers looming behind low, 19th-century buildings, and worshipful visions of mighty, river-straddling bridges are all about the euphoria of modernity and its seemingly limitless possibilities.
 Mr. Levere does produce a kind of extension of Abbott's larger project. His pictures in combination with hers do convey the experience of ongoing flux and of multiple histories interpenetrating in the big city. But the spirit of Mr. Levere's project is radically different. While she is a futuristic visionary, he is a diligent archivist whose efforts are determined by procedural and problem-solving imperatives. And what he discovers is something that most viewers will already have experienced in their own family photo albums: things change.
 As it happens, another instructive comparison is readily at hand at the Museum of the City of New York: a photo essay, produced by Danny Lyon in 1966-67 as a protest against aggressive urban renewal, titled ''The Destruction of Lower Manhattan.'' Mr. Lyon's project was precipitated by plans to demolish 60 acres of buildings below Canal Street to make way for new development that would include the World Trade Center.
 Most of his pictures are of deserted 19th-century loft buildings; some affectionately picture building wreckers pursuing their dangerous and difficult occupation. Cumulatively, Mr. Lyon's essay generates a mood of sad and haunted desolation. It is the opposite of Abbott's romantic optimism, but it is, like hers, a memorably urgent personal vision that makes you think about larger forces of modernity: political, economic and otherwise.
 Mr. Levere's project, on the other hand, has the effect of normalizing change, making it less threatening and disorienting. Details change but many more things remain comfortingly familiar. In his photographs, the Flatiron Building still stands; Zito's Bakery is still in business on Bleecker Street (it has since closed); the Lyric Theater, at 100 Third Avenue in the East Village, once festooned with signs for a Charlie Chaplin comedy and a Big Boy Williams western, is still a movie theater, albeit now for gay patrons and stripped of signage. The elevated subway lines in Manhattan are gone, but now there is the elevated Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive.
 Even the most distasteful changes, like the replacement of a grand Jamaica Town Hall, in Queens, by the low white box of a McDonald's restaurant, seem like cause more for amusement than passionate indignation. And some changes are clearly for the better, like the removal of a grotesque Renaissance-style protective structure that once enclosed the Garibaldi Memorial, a modest wooden cottage where the Italian revolutionary Giuseppe Garibaldi found refuge on Staten Island from 1850 to 1854.
 So you have the feeling that the good changes ultimately cancel out the bad ones, and that the more things change, the more they remain the same. That may be true from some broad, disinterested perspective, but it is hard to get very excited about the idea, especially in the post-9/11 era.

''New York Changing: Douglas Levere Revisits Berenice Abbott's New York'' remains on view at the Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212)534-1672, through Nov. 13.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Photos by Berenice Abbott on the left, and Douglas Levere on the right. Top left, Custom House statues and the produce exchange, 1936, and, top right, the statues and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority headquarters, 1997. Middle left, oyster houses at South Street and Pike Slip, 1937, and the same spot under the Manhattan Bridge in 2002. Above left, Union Square in 1936 and, right, in 2002. (Photos by Left side: Berenice Abbott images courtesy of the collection of the Museum of the City of New York
 right side: Douglas Levere images courtesy of Douglas Levere)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); CONDOMINIUMS (60%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%) Photography; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Museum of the City of New York

PERSON: Ken Johnson; Douglas Levere; Berenice (1898-1991) Abbott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (55%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



27 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE BOND MARKET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Debt in Storm Areas Worries The Municipal Bond Market

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Billions of dollars in municipal bonds helped build New Orleans and the surrounding areas hit by Hurricane Katrina. Now, the municipal bond market is warily watching to see whether this natural disaster could turn into a municipal finance one as well. 
 Four large municipal bond insurers disclosed yesterday that they had a combined exposure of $14 billion. MBIA, Ambac and the Financial Guaranty Insurance Corporation had $4 billion each, while the Financial Services Authority had exposure of $2 billion. 
The insurers step in if the municipalities cannot make payments on their outstanding debt because of a loss of revenue -- whether because of empty hotels or homes that may have to be razed.
 ''All the major sources of revenue collections will be under deep stress,'' said Richard Larkin, an analyst at J.B. Hanauer, the bond brokerage firm in Parsippany, N.J. ''The city is dependent on sales taxes and on property taxes. And that is depending on some retail activity taking place -- and it isn't.''
 Standard & Poor's, a rating agency that assesses municipal creditworthiness, has put municipal debt from Louisiana and Mississippi on its credit watch list
 ''This is not meant to predict a downgrade, but it is to focus on the uncertainty,'' said Alex Fraser, an analyst with Standard & Poor's. Two mainstays of the local economy, tourism and casinos, have been lost, and any drop in oil and gas revenues from damage to offshore rigs will also strain municipalities. 
 Unlike other hurricanes, which mainly damaged houses, Hurricane Katrina caused extensive damage to the region's economic base. 
 ''We are entering into uncharted territory,'' said Steven Murray, an analyst with Fitch Investors Services, a bond rating agency. ''I suspect we will be dealing with issues that no one has thought of before. If whole neighborhoods will be razed, what does that mean for tax purposes?''
 For instance, $500 million in bonds for the Ernest Morial Convention Center in New Orleans as well as statewide bonds supporting the Superdome are backed by a hotel tax -- and the hotels in the city are expected to remain closed for a long time. Some $200 million in New Orleans water and sewer bonds are backed by taxpayer revenues. Bonds issued by universities and hospitals are backed by student tuition and hospital revenue. 
 In some areas of Mississippi and Alabama, where houses and casinos have been destroyed, Mr. Larkin said some municipalities might not be revived. ''Will there be a reason to come back, when the entire tax base is wiped out?'' he asked.
 While federal emergency aid is expected to provide relief, it is not expected to be enough to cover all of the costs. Nor does it help municipalities with existing obligations. In many cases, some existing municipal debt is backed by reserve funds. But typically, the reserve funds cover only one year's debt service obligations. 
 For that reason, Mr. Larkin said New Orleans, in particular, might face a number of options. If the debt becomes overwhelming, it can declare bankruptcy and have its repayment schedule delayed. It is possible, as happened in the case of the New York City financial crisis in 1975, that the federal government could step in. And the State of Louisiana may have to shoulder more. 
 ''In traditional distressed situations,'' Mr. Larkin said, ''the state has to come in and put the guys on its back and carry them for a while.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (94%); BONDS (93%); INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); WEATHER (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); TUITION FEES (64%); HOSPITALS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRENDS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Taxation; Bankruptcies; Sales Tax; Property Taxes; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (83%) Mbia Insurance Corp; Ambac Financial Group; Financial Guaranty Insurance Co ; Financial Services Authority (Gb)

INDUSTRY: SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: Leslie Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La); New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



28 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Conservation? It's Such A 70's Idea 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
WHERE are the plans for energy conservation? They are needed now.
 The markets think that the United States will not have enough refined petroleum products to meet demand for at least a few months. The response of the government has been to relax environmental rules, which will allow more production, and to release crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which will do nothing to deal with inadequate refining capacity.
 Left to its own devices, of course, the market will allocate scarce resources. If there is a shortage of gasoline or home heating oil, prices will rise until demand falls off. Refiners will do very well financially, and gas station operators may find that their margins are also great, albeit with the added irritation of angry customers yelling about profiteering. 
 But the nature of energy demand is that it is slow to react to price changes. In the short term, a person cannot stop driving to work. Longer term, that person can get a car with better fuel efficiency or move closer to the job -- both happened after past oil spikes. But to the extent this is a short-term problem, it needs short-term solutions.
 Oil was tight long before Hurricane Katrina, largely because of rising demand from China and the failure of American oil companies to invest in new refinery capacity. Katrina's damage to oil fields and refineries turned a problem into a crisis.
 Oil futures prices are up only 4 or 5 percent this week, but futures prices for gasoline, home heating oil and natural gas have soared. Gasoline for delivery in October is up 30 percent. The December contract has risen 13 percent, but the March gain is just 8 percent.
 In the near term, the hurricane and its aftermath may seem to spur economic growth, as some sectors are stimulated by all the spending to first salvage New Orleans and then rebuild it and the equipment that has been damaged or destroyed. The way the statisticians measure gross domestic product, there is no subtraction for destruction, but there is addition for replacement of what was destroyed.
 Some will prosper. Shares in Halliburton, the oil services company, sold for $8.60 in early 2002, when the oil economy was depressed. Yesterday, they hit $63.44, setting a record for the first time since 1997.
 THERE was no mention of conservation when President Bush spoke Wednesday. By yesterday, he was talking of the need to conserve, but only in a general manner.
 Perhaps the politicians are paralyzed by memories of the way Jimmy Carter was mocked for wearing a sweater as he urged us to adjust our thermostats during another energy crisis. The 55 miles per hour speed limit somehow seems to be a violation of the fundamental rights of American drivers. Sacrifice speed to help avert soaring prices? Surely you must be kidding.
 There are other possible effects of Katrina that could hurt the economy. If the Port of New Orleans cannot get back to full capacity soon, a lot of Midwestern grain may have trouble finding a way to market. Railroad capacity is limited, making it hard to get that grain to other ports.
 But the most immediate impact is on energy prices. A major question is whether they will rise enough to choke off demand for other things, and thus damage those parts of the economy not benefiting from the reconstruction spending.
 The prudent course now would be for a national effort to reduce demand. Urge drivers to slow down and tell the police to enforce speed limits. A campaign to raise home thermostats now, and lower them this winter, might reduce demand enough to limit the price increases that the market will have to bear.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Change in futures prices this week''CRUDE OILOCTOBER 2005: 5%MARCH 2006: 4GASOLINEOCTOBER 2005: 30MARCH 2006: 8NATURAL GASOCTOBER 2005: 20MARCH 2006: 13HEATING OILOCTOBER 2005: 17MARCH 2006: 12(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); FUTURES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); SPEED LIMITS (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (87%); HURRICANES (87%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (71%); WEATHER (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Production; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Conservation of Resources; Roads and Traffic; Speed Limits and Speeding; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (84%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JIMMY CARTER (50%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



29 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Judge Dismisses Disclosure Suit Brought by S.E.C. Against Siebel

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
A federal district judge in Manhattan has dismissed a lawsuit against Siebel Systems brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the agency's effort to eliminate the selective disclosure of financial information by public companies.
 The decision in the case, the first to be litigated by the agency under Regulation FD (for fair disclosure), could make it more difficult for officials to punish companies accused of favoring some investors. But commission officials said Thursday that they would continue to enforce the regulation vigorously. 
 The decision may not be the last word. The agency has 60 days to decide whether to appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York. 
 The commission filed the lawsuit last year against Siebel, the world's largest maker of customer service software. It accused Siebel's chief financial officer, Kenneth A. Goldman, of violating the regulation when he told institutional investors at two private events in 2003 that Siebel's business activity was ''good'' and ''better'' and that there were '' some $5 million deals in Siebel's pipelines.'' 
 After the meetings, the commission said, some of the institutional investors bought significant blocks of shares. One, Alliance Capital Management, had been betting, by taking a short position, that the company's stock would decline. But after the meeting, it not only covered that position by buying back shares but also bought additional shares on the belief that Siebel's stock price would rise.
 The commission also said that Mr. Goldman's comments were significantly different from public statements made around the same time by Thomas Siebel, the founder of the company who was then its chief executive. The commission said his statements were less positive than Mr. Goldman's.
 But in an opinion signed Wednesday and made public Thursday, the district judge, George B. Daniels, rejected the government's claims. The judge said Mr. Goldman's comments largely repeated other public statements made about the same time by other executives, including Mr. Siebel. The judge also criticized the agency's interpretation of Regulation FD, saying it could have the effect of making corporations less forthcoming.
 ''Applying Regulation FD in an overly aggressive manner cannot effectively encourage full and complete public disclosure of facts reasonably deemed relevant to investment decision making,'' Judge Daniels said. 
 A commission spokesman, John Nester, declined to comment about the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); JUDGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); APPEALS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ETHICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Computer Software; Decisions and Verdicts; Accounting and Accountants; Securities and Commodities Violations; Ethics

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%) Siebel Systems Inc ; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (95%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%)

PERSON: George B (Judge) Daniels; Kenneth A Goldman; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



30 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: LOUISIANA; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: As One City Is Emptying, Another Finds Itself Full

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA and JEREMY ALFORD

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Jean Bowling found the cheapest bottle of red wine in the Whole Foods grocery store here, hoping it would offer a momentary reprieve from the chaos that has become her life.
 Back in New Orleans, she might be sharing the wine with a friend in her trendy Uptown neighborhood. But here she is staying in her mother's home, her husband and children in tow. So instead of drinking the wine, she is considering just using it to cook with. 
Lisa Bourgeois is also doing her best to adjust to her new surroundings. The concrete and trees of Baton Rouge are a far cry from her native Mandeville, a popular destination for yachting along Lake Pontchartrain that suffered severe hurricane damage.
 A friend has offered Mrs. Bourgeois a spare room as long as her family needs it. But when a relative called to offer money, she said, she was ''shocked,'' because she has never been one to need a handout. 
 ''I understood why they offered,'' Mrs. Bourgeois said. ''But it still felt strange, since I've never been in the position of needing, to think about that before.'' 
 Like many others who have fled Hurricane Katrina and sought refuge here, these women find themselves in a foreign environment, devoid of the luxuries they once enjoyed. Gone are the cocktail parties in Uptown New Orleans, the long afternoon sails. Those accustomed to playing host now find themselves as lingering guests. Their lives have turned upside down like the devastated regions they evacuated, and they have come to a city that is buckling under the weight of its new arrivals. 
 So many people have come that Jeff LeDuff, the police chief here, has said that city officials will no longer be able to transport and place evacuees within the city and instead they will be sent to adjacent regions. 
 Overnight, Baton Rouge has replaced New Orleans as the most populous city in the state. And with that title come all the challenges of a booming metropolis. 
 The Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport usually handles 700,000 passengers a year. But city officials are predicting an increase to upward of three million passengers as a result of the closing of neighboring airports. 
 Businesses forced out of the path of destruction in other cities are gobbling up office space here. Apartment rentals are in short supply: in any typical year, there are 4,000 vacancies; currently, there are none.
 The same trends are being seen with home sales. 
 ''People are buying homes with suitcases of cash,'' said Drew Tessier, a spokesman for the city. 
 The ripple effects of this boom are putting unexpected pressure on other parts of the business community. Banks are reporting long waits for withdrawals and new accounts. Loan officers are backlogged with requests for rental deposits. The city clerk is being forced to bring in additional administrators to handle new home purchases. 
 Estimates of how long the refugees will be staying vary. Officials say it may be four to five months, although they warn that that timeframe could change at any moment.
 That is a long time for houseguests and for their hosts. Martha Jane Tassin, a City Council member, is used to living alone, but her occupancy rate has gone up considerably since Hurricane Katrina blew through the coastal regions of the state. Under her roof now are 15 relatives, 4 dogs and 2 cats. 
 Things like ice, rarely given a thought before the family invasion, are now in short order. For the time being, Ms. Tassin and her guests have limited themselves to one cube for each glass of water. ''It's going to be a long haul,'' she said. ''Everyone is sacrificing in lots of ways.''
 The refugees are sacrificing, too. And for many, it is hard to swallow their pride and accept help.
 Mary Frost describes her long journey from Waveland, Miss., as ''uncomfortable.'' 
 When the congregation from a Baptist church ushered her through a soup line in North Louisiana, Ms. Frost said, she felt like an impostor, not in need of such charity. 
 ''I think people tend to be proud, and it doesn't feel right sometimes to get help,'' she said. 
 When she arrived in Baton Rouge, Ms. Frost said , her boyfriend grumbled at the thought of buying used clothes at a thrift store, although it was economically prudent. 
 Arman Codianne, who also left Waveland, finds himself wanting somehow to repay the hospitality he has been offered. 
 A masseur, Mr. Codianne is staying with friends of relatives. He said he keeps offering to give a massage to anyone who wants it, but so far there have been no takers. 
 ''I only have $200 to my name,'' he said. ''So I have to give something else to say thanks since I'll be here for a while.'' 
 As such, evacuees like Mrs. Bowling are trying to put the pieces of their former lives back together. And on the top of the list is education for her three children. While the children once enjoyed the best private schools New Orleans had to offer, Mrs. Bowling said, she was now scrambling to get them enrolled in Baton Rouge. ''I've tried to pull my strings here,'' she said, but nothing had come through yet. 
 The transition forced upon the evacuees has been trying, but people like Mrs. Bowling are finding ways to be resourceful like never before. ''It's some sort of self-preservation,'' she said. ''I know if I start crying I won't stop.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Latasha Ridley and her daughter, Jabria, 6, slept outside a college football stadium in Baton Rouge after arriving from New Orleans. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)
Evacuees heading to Baton Rouge on Thursday caught a ride on a water truck. The city says it cannot handle more refugees from the storm. (Photo by Michael Ainsworth/The Dallas Morning News, via Getty Images)
 With busloads of hurricane victims arriving by the hours, heavily armed police officers were dispatched in the city. (Photo by Vince Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (86%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); LAKES (69%); AIRPORTS (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); PROPERTY LEASES (64%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); COMMUNITY BANKS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Ian Urbina; Jeremy Alford; Jeff (Police Chief) LeDuff

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (96%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Baton Rouge (La); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



31 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 13888 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Sept. 2 -- Sept. 8

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the Northeast this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

 Previews and Openings

'MOTHER COURAGE' Opens Sunday. The Jean Cocteau Repertory Theater begins its 35th season with Marc Bliztstein's world-premiere translation of Brecht's play with music. David Fuller directs (2:00). Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery, at Bond Street, East Village, (212)279-4200.

'THE AUDITION' Opens Wednesday. Reality television comes to the stage in this interactive show, in which actors perform monologues that are voted on by the audience and a panel of judges (1:45). Wings Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)696-7303.

'ANATHEMAVILLE' Previews begin today. Opens Thursday. A comedy about an employee uprising at a megaretailer called Uber-Mart (2:45). Gene Frankel Theater, 24 Bond Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)352-3101.

'THE BLOWIN OF BAILE GALL' Previews begin Thursday. Opens Sept. 13. The second part of Ronan Noone's Baile trilogy explores what happens when an African refugee is hired instead of a local in a small Irish town (2:00). Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (212)868-4444.

'THE BREADWINNER' Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Sept. 10. The Keen Company revives Somerset Maugham's comedy about a middle-class man who makes an uncomfortable announcement. Carl Forsman directs (2:00). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212)868-4444.

'COLDER THAN HERE' Previews begin Wednesday. Opens Sept. 28. Judith Light, Brian Murray, Sarah Paulson and Lily Rabe star in Laura Wade's dark comedy about a woman planning her funeral (1:30). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)279-4200.

'DR. SEX' Opens Sept 20. After getting the Liam Neeson treatment on the big screen, the life of the sex researcher Alfred Kinsey gets its own show tunes, courtesy of this new musical comedy (2:20). Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200.

'FRAN'S BED' Opens Sept. 25. The fall season's celebrity sightings begin as James Lapine directs Mia Farrow and Julia Stiles in his play about a woman undergoing a midlife crisis (1:45). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200.

'THE GREAT AMERICAN TRAILER PARK MUSICAL' Opens Sept. 22. A hit at the 2004 New York Musical Theater Festival, this comic musical features original songs about life in a trailer park (2:00). Dodger Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200.

'THE INTELLIGENT DESIGN OF JENNY CHOW' Opens Sept. 19. Rolin Jones's high-concept sci-fi play, about a young genius who builds a better robot, helps kick off the 20th anniversary season of the Atlantic Theater Company (2:10). Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212)239-6200.

'KISSING FIDEL' Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Sept. 20. A new comedy-drama by Eduardo Machado about a young man who goes back home to Cuba to kiss and forgive Fidel Castro. Directed by Michael John Garces (2:15). Kirk Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200.

'THE LADIES OF THE CORRIDOR' Previews begin Wednesday. Opens Sept. 14. The Peccadillo Theater Company revives Dorothy Parker's and Arnaud d'Usseau's play about the eccentric residents of a New York City hotel (2:00). East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212)279-4200.

'MIRACLE BROTHERS' Opens Sept. 18. An epic new musical by Kirsten Childs about the adventures of two brothers -- one black, one white -- in 17th-century Brazil (2:00). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)353-0303.

Broadway

'ALL SHOOK UP' In a pint-size theater with a campy young cast, this might be a moderate hoot. Inflated to Broadway proportions, it's a mind-numbing holler (2:10). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212)307-4100.(Ben Brantley)

'CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG' The playthings are the thing in this lavish windup music box of a show: windmills, Rube Goldberg-esque machines and the show's title character, a flying car. It's like spending two and a half hours in the Times Square branch of Toys ''R'' Us (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring John Lithgow and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr, 219 West 48th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'LENNON' In the immortal words of Yoko Ono, ''Aieeeee!'' (2:10). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'THE PILLOWMAN' For all its darkness of plot and imagery, Martin McDonagh's tale of a suspected child murderer in a totalitarian state dazzles with a brightness now largely absent from Broadway. Exquisitely directed and designed, ''The Pillowman'' features top-of-the-line performances from Billy Crudup, Jeff Goldblum, Zeljko Ivanek and Michael Stuhlbarg (2:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Still, it seems safe to say that such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence will find a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'SWEET CHARITY' This revival of the 1966 musical never achieves more than a low-grade fever when what's wanted is that old steam heat. In the title role of the hopeful dance-hall hostess, the appealing but underequipped Christina Applegate is less a shopworn angel than a merry cherub (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around. (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

Off Broadway

*'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'DEDICATION, OR THE STUFF OF DREAMS' Portraying a terminally ill, rancidly rich misanthrope in Terrence McNally's play about a small-town children's theater troupe, Marian Seldes is a snappy advertisement for the time-defying benefits of a religious devotion to theater. She is, in fact, what ''Dedication'' is all about, or intends to be, anyway. Burdened with soap-opera-ish plot turns and artificially bright dialogue, this comedy of mortality never seems able to convince itself that life and art trump death and doubt, despite the presence of a top-flight cast led by Nathan Lane (2:15). Beginning Tuesday, Don Amendolia replaces Mr. Lane. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212)279-4200. (Brantley)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast. So, while literally and figuratively giving off many good vibes, it adds up to lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200.(Lawrence Van Gelder)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'JOY' John Fisher's play with music, a lecture-prone valentine to San Francisco and gay life among college students, says less about human sexuality and longing than the classic, melancholy love songs the cast performs (2:00). The Actors' Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212)239-6200. (Andrea Stevens)

'THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS!' The musical is the happy narcissist of theater; parody is the best form of narcissism. All it needs are smart writers and winning performers. That's what we get in this case (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 5, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Margo Jefferson)

*'ORSON'S SHADOW' Austin Pendleton's play, about a 1960 production of Ionesco's ''Rhinoceros,'' which was directed by Orson Welles and starred Laurence Olivier, is a sharp-witted but tenderhearted backstage comedy about the thin skins, inflamed nerves and rampaging egos that are the customary side effects when sensitivity meets success (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'ONCE AROUND THE SUN' The ''sun'' of the title could be the talent and energy of its impressive cast: you can warm your hands on them and on the catchy music. Unfortunately the book fails to capitalize on these strengths, instead presenting a trite fable about a young rock singer seduced by celebrity, with cardboard characters despite the actors' best efforts to give them dimension. Still, the performances are very entertaining (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Anne Midgette)

'ONE-MAN STAR WARS TRILOGY' With a storm trooper roaming the aisles and a woman in an Obi-Wan Kenobi get-up telling theatergoers to turn off their cellphones or they will be turned into ''cosmic dust,'' Charles Ross's sprint in Episodes IV through VI aims for the atmosphere of a ''Star Wars'' convention but ends up achieving something like a religious revival (which is sort of the same thing). True believers will love how Mr. Ross, a self-confessed geek who plays every major role in under an hour, simulates R2D2, but everyone else will scratch his head (1:00). Lamb's Theater, 130 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)

'PHILADELPHIA, HERE I COME!' Ciaran O'Reilly's small but spirited production of Brian Friel's mournful, funny 1964 play centers on a lonely young man preparing to flee the small-minded Irish backwater he grew up in for the big time in the U.S. of A. Michael FitzGerald and James Kennedy are nicely contrasted as the public and private faces of a man at a painful crossroads (2:20). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)727-2737. (Isherwood)

*'SIDES: THE FEAR IS REAL' This hilarious collection of sketches may send up familiar targets -- the insecure thespian, the fraudulent acting teacher, the arrogant Juilliard grad -- but since it's performed with such specificity and comic charm by actors firing on all cylinders, you won't care a whit. Written by and starring an all-Asian-American cast, this slight but consistently entertaining satire is a primer on what not to do in an audition room (1:15). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)307-4100. (Zinoman)

*'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as stand-up existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. Stand-up-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative. Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA' Three decades after it first charmed critics with its insouciance, John Guare and Mel Shapiro's adaptation of Shakespeare's comedy, with throwaway songs by Galt MacDermot, tastes less like vintage Champagne than a fruity sangria. But isn't sangria the right drink for a sultry night in the park? Directed and choreographed by Kathleen Marshall, with a peppy young cast that includes the ravishing Rosario Dawson (2:45). The Public Theater at the Delacorte Theater, Central Park, entrances at 81st Street and Central Park West, and at 79th Street and Fifth Avenue, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

'SCREEN PLAY' A.R. Gurney's gleefully partisan retooling of the film ''Casablanca'' sets one tough saloon owner's battle between idealism and cynicism in Buffalo in the 21st century. Staged by Jim Simpson as a deftly orchestrated reading, ''Screen Play'' turns out to be more than a quick collegiate caper; it's a morally indignant work that fights frivolity with frivolity (1:10). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212)352-3101. Reopening Thursday. (Brantley)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212)307-4747. (Brantley)

'BLUE MAN GROUP' Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)254-4370. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' The Shtetl Land pavilion in the theme park called Broadway (2:55). The Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'MOVIN' OUT' The miracle dance musical that makes Billy Joel cool (2:00). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'NAKED BOYS SINGING' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:05). Julia Miles Theater, 414 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Anita Gates)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

*'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212)307-4100. (Van Gelder)

'STOMP' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, Second Avenue at Eighth Street, East Village, (212)477-2477. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'JACKIE MASON: FRESHLY SQUEEZED' Mr. Mason has so cunningly manufactured and marketed his dyspeptic comic persona -- the herky-jerky movements used to embellish the routines, the voice that's like a sinus infection with a bad back -- that he may soon be able to refine all actual jokes out of his act and still slay 'em. That's chutzpah. And quite a talent, too (2:05). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200, closing on Sunday. (Isherwood)

*'WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF?' Everybody ultimately loses in Edward Albee's great marital wrestling match of a play from 1962. But theatergoers who attend this revealingly acted new production, starring a superb Kathleen Turner and Bill Irwin, are destined to leave the show feeling like winners (2:50). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212)239-6200, closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. (An article on summer films is on Page 1 of Weekend.)

*'THE ARISTOCRATS' (No rating, 89 minutes) A rigorously scholarly documentary about the theory and practice of joke-telling that also happens to be one of the filthiest, vilest, most extravagantly obscene movies ever made -- and one of the funniest. (A.O. Scott)

'ASYLUM' (R, 90 minutes) A dreary, claustrophobic soap with Natasha Richardson about a 1950's bored wife and mother victimized by her times and her incredibly bad taste in men; based on Patrick McGrath's novel and directed by David Mackenzie. (Manohla Dargis)

*'BAD NEWS BEARS' (PG-13, 111 minutes) Filled with small, cute kids and large, goofy laughs and kept aloft by Billy Bob Thornton's ribald star turn, Richard Linklater's remake of this 1976 sports comedy won't rock your movie world. But the fact that the filmmaker keeps the freak flag flying in the face of our culture of triumphalism is a thing of beauty. (Dargis)

'BALZAC AND THE LITTLE CHINESE SEAMSTRESS' (No rating, 111 minutes, in Mandarin and French) Dai Sijie, adapting his novel, looks back at the Chinese Cultural Revolution, relating a touching, bittersweet love story that is also a testament to the power of literature in times of political repression. (Scott)

*'BATMAN BEGINS' (PG-13, 137 minutes) Conceived in the shadow of American pop rather than in its bright light, this tense, effective iteration of Bob Kane's original comic book owes its power and pleasures to a director (Christopher Nolan) who takes his material seriously and to a star (a terrific Christian Bale) who shoulders that seriousness with ease. ''Batman Begins'' is the seventh live-action film to take on the comic-book legend and the first to usher it into the kingdom of movie myth. (Dargis)

'THE BAXTER' (PG-13, 91 minutes) A ''Baxter,'' in the lingo of this romantic comedy written by, directed by and starring the comedian Michael Showalter, is the safe choice, the also-ran, the guy who gets left at the altar when the hero shows up, as Dustin Hoffman did in ''The Graduate,'' to claim his true love. The film's tragic flaw is that Mr. Showalter is miscast -- or has miscast himself -- in the title role. In the end, ''The Baxter'' is a Baxter of a movie: well meaning and mildly likable, but unlikely to sweep you off your feet. (Dana Stevens)

'BEWITCHED'(PG-13, 90 minutes) Nicole Kidman stars as a real nose-twitching witch cast in a sitcom redo of ''Bewitched.'' The movie is agreeably watchable for an hour, so it's too bad that the director, Nora Ephron, forgot that a gimmick is no substitute for a screenplay, never mind a real movie. (Dargis)

* 'BROKEN FLOWERS' (R, 105 minutes) Sweet, funny, sad and meandering, Jim Jarmusch's new film sends Bill Murray's aging Don Juan out in search of a son he never knew he had. He finds four former lovers, including Sharon Stone and Jessica Lange, and reveals once again that he is the quietest and finest comic actor working in movies today. (Scott)

'THE BROTHERS GRIMM' (PG-13, 118 minutes) Despite a few early sparks of promise, Terry Gilliam's big-screen adventure about the brother folklorists (played by Matt Damon and Heath Ledger) sputters and coughs along like an unoiled machine, grinding gears and nerves in equal measure. (Dargis)

'THE CAVE' (PG-13, 97 minutes) In Bruce Hunt's formulaic ''The Cave,'' a group of ace cave-divers are flown in to investigate an intricate maze system discovered beneath the ruins of an ancient Romanian abbey, but instead become the prey of mutated demonlike creatures that can fly and see in the dark. Dreadfully dull, muddled and chaotic, with colorless and underdeveloped characters.(Laura Kern)

'THE CENTURY OF THE SELF' (No rating, four hours, shown in two parts) This documentary, a four-part series produced for BBC television that is being shown in theaters in two separate two-hour segments, explores how Freud's seminal theory of the subconscious has been successfully deployed over the past century as an instrument of consumer manipulation and social control. ''The Century of the Self'' is an unusually cerebral filmed essay that demands focus and patience from its audience as it sets about unearthing a secret history of the 20th century. (Stevens)

'CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY' (PG, 116 minutes) Flawed but fascinating. Some of the departures from the book will make Roald Dahl fans roll their eyes, but some of the visuals will make their eyes (and everyone else's) pop. (Scott)

*'DARWIN'S NIGHTMARE' (No rating, 107 minutes, in English, Russian and Swahili) A harrowing, unblinking look at the consequences of globalization, as seen from the shores of Lake Victoria in Tanzania. Not easy viewing, but indispensable for just that reason. (Scott)

'DEUCE BIGALOW: EUROPEAN GIGOLO' (R, 77 minutes) In a sequel to the 1999 hit, the schlubby escort lands in Amsterdam to make lovelorn ladies feel whole, but the entire ordeal is mockery disguised as self-help. The insulting comedy is out of step with the culture, the times and the rebranded Adam Sandler, who was a producer and bit player in this mess. (Ned Martel)

*'EL CRIMEN PERFECTO' (No rating, 105 minutes, in Spanish) In this antic and outrageous black comedy, Rafael Gonzalez (Guillermo Toledo) is a salesman in the women's section of a Madrid department store. Rafael's fondest dream is to be floor manager; when his archrival for the position, Don Antonio (Luis Varela), is accidentally killed in a scuffle in the dressing room, Rafael's world begins to unravel. Like the Ferris wheel that serves as the setting for one of its climactic scenes, ''El Crimen Perfecto'' is a bright, gaudy and tremendously satisfying ride. (Stevens)

'ETERNAL' (No rating, 108 minutes) Lush, lurid, and completely besotted with itself, ''Eternal'' claims inspiration from the life of Erszebet Bathory, a 16th-century Hungarian countess whose antiaging routine required frequent immersions in young, female blood. Merging low art and high production values, this is one of the dullest, least sexy lesbian vampire movies ever made. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'FANTASTIC FOUR' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Mediocre at best. (Scott)

'FORMULA 17' (No rating, 93 minutes, in Mandarin) A silly-sweet gay romantic comedy aimed primarily at teenagers and college-age audiences, this tale of a virginal young man who finds love in Taipei is charmingly cosmopolitan. Though it is rife with stereotypes, the movie's breeziness and bouyant good humor are difficult to resist. (Catsoulis)

*'THE 40-YEAR-OLD VIRGIN' (R, 111 minutes) A sex comedy turned romantic bliss-out with Steve Carell in which the sound of one prophylactic snapping is just a single sweet note in the glorious symphony of love. (Dargis)

'FOUR BROTHERS' (R, 148 minutes) In John Singleton's slick hybrid of urban western and modern blaxploitation movie, four young men, two black and two white, reunite in Detroit to avenge the shooting death of their saintly adoptive mother. Preposterous, amoral and exciting. (Stephen Holden)

*'THE GOEBBELS EXPERIMENT' (No rating, 107 minutes, in English and German) Lutz Hachmeister and Michael Kloft's fascinating documentary provides a chilling glimpse into the brilliant but toxic mind of Joseph Goebbels via his extensive diaries. From soggy sentimentality to maniacal extermination fantasies, the entries reveal a supremely theatrical man whose manipulation of mass political opinion was unprecedented. (Catsoulis)

'THE GREAT RAID' (R, 132 minutes) This tedious World War II movie, which re-enacts a real-life heroic rescue of American prisoners from a Japanese camp in the Philippines, slogs across the screen like a forced march in quicksand. (Holden)

*'GRIZZLY MAN' (R, 103 minutes) Werner Herzog's bold, enthralling documentary about one man's journey into the heart of darkness (and the belly of the beast) traces the life and strange times of the self-anointed grizzly expert Timothy Treadwell. (Dargis)

'HUSTLE & FLOW' (R, 114 minutes) Terrence Howard is superb as a Memphis pimp chasing his dream of hip-hop stardom in a movie that is an awkward mix of realism, misogyny and Hollywood hokum. (Scott)

* 'JUNEBUG' (R, 107 minutes) A Southern ''Five Easy Pieces,'' this deep, bittersweet comedy about a young man's return from Chicago to his family's North Carolina home envelops us in the texture of a culture the movies seldom visit. Amy Adams gives an incandescent portrayal of the man's pregnant, childlike sister-in-law. (Holden)

* 'LAST DAYS' (R, 97 minutes) An impressionistic portrait, ''Last Days'' is in many ways less about the death of Kurt Cobain than about the resurrection of Gus Van Sant, even as it is also about the mystery of human consciousness, the ecstasy of creation, and how sorrow sometimes goes hand in hand with the sublime. (Dargis)

'MAD HOT BALLROOM' (PG, 105 minutes) This documentary follows fifth graders from three very different New York City public schools as they prepare to compete in a ballroom dancing tournament. The sight of 10-year-olds trying to master the graceful, grown-up motions of the fox trot and the tango is charming, and the glimpses of their lives in and outside of school are fascinating, though unfortunately the film offers little more than glimpses. (Scott)

*'MARCH OF THE PENGUINS' (G, 80 minutes) This sentimental but riveting documentary follows the one-year mating cycle of emperor penguins in Antarctica when they leave the ocean and march inland to breed and lay eggs. Narrated by Morgan Freeman, the film has no qualms about playing on our emotions. (Holden)

*'THE MEMORY OF A KILLER' (R, 120 minutes, in Flemish and French) Directed by Erik Van Looy, this nicely kinked Belgian thriller features a range of good guys and bad, including one whose sense of morality and world-weariness seem straight out of a Jean-Pierre Melville film. (Dargis)

'MR. AND MRS. SMITH' (PG-13, 112 minutes) What counts in a movie like this are stars so dazzling that we won't really notice or at least mind the cut-rate writing (from Simon Kinberg) and occasionally incoherent action (from the director, Doug Liman). Sometimes Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie succeed in their mutual role as sucker bait, sometimes they don't, which is why their joint venture is alternately a goof and a drag. (Dargis)

*'MURDERBALL' (R, 86 minutes) The brutal, highly competitive sport of wheelchair rugby is the subject of this exciting and uplifting (but never mawkish) documentary about the redemptive power of fierce athletic competition. (Holden)

'MUST LOVE DOGS' (PG-13, 92 minutes) This tepid sitcom about computer dating wastes the talents of its stars (Diane Lane, John Cusack, Christopher Plummer, Stockard Channing) in stale, dated material that makes Nora Ephron's trifles look like Chekhov. (Holden)

'9 SONGS' (No rating, 69 minutes) Graphically photographed scenes of an attractive young couple having real, not simulated, sex are interwoven with concert performances of rock songs played by various bands. The couplings reveal little about who these people are. (Holden)

*'PRETTY PERSUASION' (No rating, 104 minutes) In this go-for-broke satire, Evan Rachel Wood plays a toxic 15-year-old alpha girl who joins with two sidekicks from her private Beverly Hills high school to falsely accuse their English and drama teacher of sexual harassment. Very funny and very nasty. (Holden)

* 'RED EYE' (PG-13, 85 minutes) The sights and sounds of two people talking become a nerve-jangling duet for cat and mouse, hunter and prey in Wes Craven's nifty, tense thriller. (Dargis)

*'SECUESTRO EXPRESS' (R, 86 minutes, in Spanish) This is a relentless assault on the senses about three hoodlums who kidnap an attractive young couple, Carla (Mia Maestro) and Martin (Jean Paul), who then must face a hellish endurance test while awaiting the ransom money. This perfectly cast film is more than just a dizzying thrill ride laced with small doses of pitch-black comic relief; it also raises awareness of frightening real-life class wars and deep-rooted corruption in Caracas, Venezuela. (Kern)

'THE SKELETON KEY' (PG-13, 104 minutes) Kate Hudson in a T-shirt and underwear, intimations of unspeakable evil, slamming doors and equally slamming edits, and an introductory course in hoodoo, a folk religion born in the South -- all this and Gena Rowlands, Peter Sarsgaard and John Hurt, too. (Dargis)

* 'SKY HIGH' (PG, 102 minutes) This witty Disney adventure comedy imagines a high school for superheroes, hidden above the clouds, where the students are divided into Heroes and Sidekicks. The movie poses the age-old question ''Is there life after high school?'' and with a cheerful wink answers, ''No, not really.'' (Holden)

'SYMPATHY FOR MR. VENGEANCE' (No rating, 121 minutes) In this exploitation flick from Park Chanwook about two men who each set a course for bloody vengeance, the violence carries no meaning beyond the director's ego. (Dargis)

*'TONY TAKITANI' (No rating, 75 minutes, in Japanese) In this delicate wisp of a film with a surprisingly sharp sting, a lonely man awakens at 37 to life for the first time during a brief idyll. Directed by Jun Ichikawa, from a short story by Haruki Murakami. (Dargis)

* '2046' (R, 129 minutes) An ecstatically beautiful story in which time is marked not by the hands of a clock, but by the women who pass through one man's life, ''2046'' is the eighth feature film from the Hong Kong director Wong Kar-wai and the long-awaited follow-up to his art-house favorite ''In the Mood for Love.'' A film about longing, loss and the delicate curve of a woman's back, it is also an unqualified triumph. (Dargis)

'UNDISCOVERED' (PG-13, 97 minutes) A lifeless Los Angeles romance between an aspiring musician and a model is characterized by bland stars and overlong musical numbers. Set among a group of young people who dream of becoming famous, the picture carries more than a whiff of the self-referential. (Catsoulis)

'THE UNTOLD STORY OF EMMETT LOUIS TILL' (No rating, 70 minutes) Keith A. Beauchamp's lean, harrowing documentary about the 50-year-old murder that catalyzed the civil rights movement offers new evidence that the crime was a broader conspiracy than originally thought. (Holden)

'VALIANT' (G, 80 minutes) Homing pigeons versus falcons are the combatants in this shoddily made animated movie about heroes and villains in World War II. The talents of many fine British actors are squandered in the voice-overs. (Holden)

* 'WALL (MUR)' (No rating, 96 minutes, in Arabic and Hebrew) The filmmaker Simone Bitton takes a measured look at the barrier that divides Israel from the West Bank in this documentary, a film that considers hard-core political realities alongside agonizing personal truths. (Dargis)

'WAR OF THE WORLDS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) The aliens invade (again). Effectively scary and visually impressive. (Scott)

'WEDDING CRASHERS' (R, 113 minutes) A wink-wink, nudge-nudge Trojan horse of a story, this amiably raunchy sex comedy pivots on two Lotharios persuasively inhabited by Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn. They love the ladies but really and truly, cross their cheating hearts, just want a nice girl to call wife. Credited to the screenwriters Steve Faber and Bob Fisher. (Dargis)

Film Series

A DAY IN THE LIFE OF NEW YORK (Through Wednesday, then an encore on Sept. 11) The Two Boots Pioneer Theater presents a weeklong run of Richard Karz's documentary about the second anniversary of the World Trade Center attacks. New Yorkers who share their thoughts and opinions on that day include Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner; Russell Simmons, the hip-hop mogul; Joe Torre, the Yankees manager; the Rev. Al Sharpton; Shirin Neshat, an Iranian-born artist and filmmaker; Dolly Lenz, a real estate broker; and Ti-Hua Chang, a local television news reporter. 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A, (212)591-0434, $9. (Anita Gates)

REPERTORY NIGHTS (Through Nov. 6) The Museum of the Moving Image continues its annual film series with a Godard double feature. ''Breathless'' (1959), which defined nouvelle vague; and his first big-star feature, ''Contempt'' (1963), with Brigitte Bardot. Both films are to be shown on Saturday and Sunday. Other auteurs in the festival will include Ingmar Bergman, F.W. Murnau, Alfred Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick and Francois Truffaut. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718)784-0077, $10. (Gates)

SUMMER SAMURAI (Through Sept. 15) Film Forum continues its four-week celebration of the Japanese warrior-action genre with Kihichi Okamoto's ''Kill!'' (1968), a genre blend (action, comedy and drama) about a samurai ordered to assassinate his best friend, and Masaki Kobayashi's ''Harakiri'' (1962), a drama about unemployed samurai in 17th-century peacetime. Other films in the festival include Akira Kurosawa's ''Seven Samurai'' (1964), ''Yojimbo'' (1961) and ''Throne of Blood'' (1957); and Okamoto's ''Zatoichi Meets Yojimbo'' (1970). 209 West Houston Street, (212)727-8110, $10. (Gates)

TRUTH AND DARE: NEW YORK KOREAN FILM FESTIVAL (Through Sept. 11) BAMcinematek's festival of recent films from Korea, now in its fifth year, begins today. This weekend's features include Chu Chang-Min's ''Mapado: All About the Hemp & Widows'' (2005), a comedy about a stolen Lotto jackpot and five lonely women, and Choi Dong-Hoon's bank heist film, ''The Big Swindle'' (2004). Today through Tuesday, Lighthouse Theater, 111 East 59th Street, (866)468-7619, $10. On Wednesday, the festival moves to BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718)636-4100, $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

MARC ANTHONY, ALEJANDRO FERNANDEZ (Tomorrow) Mr. Anthony is the biggest-selling salsa artist of all time, and is still passionately riding the rhythm as well as reportedly coaching his new wife, Jennifer Lopez, on the finer points of full-bodied singing. Mr. Fernandez, the Mexican crooner, sings sweeping love ballads as well as mariachi standards. 7 p.m., Jones Beach Theater, 1000 Ocean Parkway, Wantagh, N.Y., (516)221-1000, $40 to $95. (Laura Sinagra)

ASYLUM STREET SPANKERS (Sunday) Jumpy, gypsified jazz of a Creole variety forms the repertory of this energetic Austin band, which slides easily from cabaret ragtime to hammy heartbreakers. 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8770, $15 in advance, $18. (Sinagra)

BENVENUTO RUSSO DUO, DRUMS & TUBA (Thursday) The jam duo of Joe Russo and Marco Benvenuto plays jazz-inflected rock that dabbles in electronics. Drums & Tuba, an eclectic trio, explores a mix of groovy jazz-rock and brass band music; Brian Wolff plays tuba, trumpet and trombone. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111, $15 in advance, $18. (Sinagra)

BLOOD ON THE WALL (Thursday) This shaggy Brooklyn trio fronted by the guitarist and vocalist Brad Shanks and his sister, the bassist and vocalist Courtney Shanks, make hip-shaking rock with a touch of Midwestern-gothic twang. 9 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)253-0036, $7. (Sinagra)

BROOKLYN JUNKYARD ROCK FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) The fourth installment of this annual outdoor rock show features performances by the angelic, experimental rockers Telepathy, the Utah electronica duo Fireball, the drum-pummeling noise duo Hospitals and the machine-beat, feedback-heavy Ex-Models. The arty pop buzz band the Double and the squalling rockers Oneida headline. Noon, South Fifth Street, between Berry Street and Wythe Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, free. (Sinagra)

CKY (Tuesday) The alt-metal band, whose initials stand for Camp Kill Yourself, saw its career take off when the drummer Jesse Margera's brother and skateboarder, Bam Margera, put the band in popular skate videos. 7 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, Union Square, (212)777-6800, $20 in advance, $22. (Sinagra)

MARIA DE BARROS (Tonight) Born in Senegal but raised in Mauritania and Rhode Island, Ms. De Barros sings in the style of the Cape Verdean Cesaria Evora. She sings in Spanish and the Portuguese-African dialect kriolu, mining her inherited island traditions, from the upbeat ''coladeira,'' a salsalike style, to soulful mornas and tricky funanas. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8770, $20. (Sinagra)

EVERY TIME I DIE, HIGH ON FIRE (Thursday) The screaming metal of Every Time I Die recalls the druggy melodies of Jane's Addiction, but it barrels along with speedier guitars and less preening. The underground dark metal High on Fire, whose recent work with the producer Steve Albini highlights its precision, is also on the bill. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, Union Square, (212)777-6800, $16. (Sinagra)

'FASHION ROCKS' (Thursday) This Fashion Week show will feature quick-hit performances by clotheshorses like Gwen Stefani, Joss Stone, Nelly, Alicia Keys, Tim McGraw, David Bowie, Duran Duran, Rob Thomas and the man whose look Brad Pitt stole, Billy Idol. The show, which will be broadcast on CBS the next night is supposedly the final TV gig for Destiny's Child, but the most interesting bits should come courtesy of the quirky Shakira and the theater-nerd indie rocker Arcade Fire. 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212)632-4000, $70. (Sinagra)

DIAMANDA GALAS (Thursday) There are no small emotions for Ms. Galas, whose compositions are music theater with its rawest nerves exposed. She takes up fear and rage, mourning and vengeance; her voice can reach operatic heights or slice through a room with primal moans and shrieks and sobs. This is the East Coast debut of ''Defixiones, Orders from the Dead,'' a ''sacred operatic mass.'' Thursday at 8 p.m., Pace University, Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts, 3 Spruce Street, Lower Manhattan, (212)279-4200, $15 to $35. (Jon Pareles)

GREG GARING (Tuesday) This songwriter prizes both the heart-on-sleeve simplicity of honky-tonk and the possibilities of electronica. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8770, $10. (Pareles)

IDLEWILD (Wednesday) The Scottish romantic Roddy Woomble's passionate, lyrical emo-punk band Idlewild delivers a reliably lovelorn brand of dejection that when it works right, proffers a winsomely broken narcissism. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, Union Square, (212)777-6800, $16. (Sinagra)

JANDEK (Tuesday) After 25 years in which he has released 40 wrenching, at times distressing, albums under the cover of shadowy anonymity, the interview-eschewing Texan musician known as Jandek has recently emerged to perform live for admirers who have long fetishized his songs, which veer from the eschatological to the whispery and sublingual, from claustrophobic to cracked. 7 p.m., Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, East Village, $25 (sold out). (Sinagra)

NORMAN JAY (Tomorrow) This London-born West Indian D.J. hit big in 1980 with his island-inflected Good Times Sound System. 3 p.m. P.S.1 Contemporary Arts Center, 22-25 Jackson Street, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718)784-2084, Warm Up Saturdays admission is $8 from 2 to 9 p.m. Museum admission is free from 12 to 2 p.m. on Warm Up Saturdays. (Sinagra)

JIM JONES (Thursday) A member of Harlem's Dip Set, this rapper creates a bridge between Southern heat and Northern blase on recent material featuring guest spots by his crew boss, Cam'ron, and the Houston star Paul Wall. 9:30 p.m., Club Exit, 610 West 56th Street, (212)582-8282, $20. (Sinagra)

THE KIN, HACKENSAW BOYS (Wednesday) The Kin, a locally based rock group, is led by two Australian-born brothers who write bombastic pop loosely reminiscent of INXS. The eight-member Virginia band Hackensaw Boys play raw traditional bluegrass with lots of fast fiddling, banjoing, speedy stomp and ripe holler. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111, $13 in advance, $15. (Sinagra)

BETTYE LAVETTE (Thursday) Detroit's Bettye LaVette released her first recording when she was 16, and soldiered on through a career that carried her through 15 labels, rhythm-and-blues hits like ''He Made a Woman Out of Me,'' and a stint in Broadway's ''Bubblin' Brown Sugar.'' 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8770, $20. (Pareles)

MATISYAHU, MOBIUS BAND (Thursday) The unlikely Hasid reggae toaster Matisyahu presents a confident conflation of Rasta and Hasidic spirituality. Also on the bill, electronic pop-rocker Mobius Band. 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600, $20 in advance, $25. (Sinagra)

MERZBOW (Tuesday) This Japanese improviser has released dozens of albums of wildly abrasive noise. Feedback, static and tape-loop manipulation are only a few of his tools. The Finnish underground Circle explores eclectic, repetitious pastiche. 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3132, $13 in advance, $15. (Pareles)

THE NATIONAL, CLAP YOUR HANDS SAY YEAH (Thursday) The National is a group of New York-based Ohio natives who turn out a kind of pent-up, countrified indie rock that underplays its hand enough to seem modest. The Brooklyn quintet Clap Your Hands Say Yeah recalls the shamanic whine and thrum of mid-1990's lo-fi rocker Neutral Milk Hotel and sometimes the slippery paranoid quirk of the Talking Heads. 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718)387-0505, $14. (Sinagra)

LEO NOCENTELLI (Tomorrow) This guitarist has been scratching the backbeat and teasing the blues for decades as a member of the Meters, the great New Orleans funk band. 11 p.m., B.B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, (212)997-4144, $20. (Pareles)

OBITUARY, NAPALM DEATH (Tuesday) The death-metal Obituary, whose crunching riffs ooze Florida swamp doom, shares the bill with Britain's pioneer of pulverizing grindcore, Napalm Death 7 p.m., B.B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan; (212) 997-4144, $20.50 in advance, $24. (Sinagra)

OUT HUD (Sunday) This Brooklyn dance band dabbles in orchestral sonics as well as tight post-punk guitar and electro-dub excursions. The lyrics are on the callow side, but if you're busy flailing to the beat, it won't matter. 11:30 p.m., Eugene's, 27 West 24th Street, (212)462-0999, $15 in advance, $20. (Sinagra)

RATA BLANCA (Sunday) This Argentine band has been living and performing in Spain for more than 10 years, where it plays Monsters of Rock-style metal-en-Espanol. 8:30 p.m., B.B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan; (212)997-4144, $30 in advance, $40. (Sinagra)

ROOTS OF AMERICAN MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tomorrow and Sunday) The 22nd annual festival celebrates the elemental folk forms in two of Lincoln Center's outdoor venues. Tomorrow afternoon's lineup on the North Plaza includes the yodeler and humorist M.C. Sourdough and the mountain singers Ginny Hawker and Tracy Schwarz. That evening's Damrosch Park show features the gospel-tinged Nashville Bluegrass Band, followed by the Irish folk singers Rosemary Woods and Robbie O'Connell, a Clancy Brothers member. Headlining is the Appalachian music master Doc Watson, whose adaptation of fiddle music for guitar made him a key collaborator with artists like Flatt & Scruggs and the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. On Sunday afternoon, Si Kahn performs labor songs, Bob Conroy and Dan Milner and the Johnson Girls sing maritime and saloon chanteys. Later, the cowboy-music stalwart Don Edwards gives voice to the elemental work of the West, and the 60's folk revivalists the Highwaymen perform standards from that era. Sunday night's show features the Nashville singer-songwriter Suzy Bogguss and the neo-traditionalist Ricky Skaggs. Afternoon shows at 2 p.m., Lincoln Center North Plaza, Amsterdam Avenue at 63rd Street. Evening shows at 7 p.m., Damrosch Park, 62nd Street and Broadway, (212)571-1555. (Sinagra)

KENNY WAYNE SHEPHERD (Monday) For young blues guitarists like Mr. Shepherd, the blues has as much to do with the Allman Brothers and Jimi Hendrix as it did with Muddy Waters and Robert Johnson. With a baritone howl that's somewhere between Gregg Allman and Robin Trower and a guitar style that looks to Stevie Ray Vaughan, Mr. Shepherd treats the blues as a muscular cry of desperation. 8 p.m., B.B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan; (212)997-4144, $30 in advance, $34. (Pareles)

SICK OF IT ALL (Sunday) The hard-core punk Sick of It All gained unwanted attention in the 90's after Wayne Lo shot up his school wearing one of its T-shirts. The band has stuck to its just-shy-of-anarchy formula, playing here in a benefit for CBGB's, along with the like-minded Fearless Vampire Killers and Most Precious Blood, 8 p.m., CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street, East Village, (212)982-4052, $20. (Sinagra)

WALTER 'WOLFMAN' WASHINGTON (Tuesday) Mr. Washington, a New Orleans guitarist, has been a trusty, funky collaborator for the likes of Bobby (Blue) Bland and Irma Thomas. His shows are usually rump-shaking affairs, but providing he makes it to town in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, the atmosphere may be quite different. The show is still scheduled as of press time. 9 p.m., Coda, 34 East 34th Street, Manhattan, (212)685-3434, $12. (Sinagra)

XIU XIU, FROG EYES (Tonight) The post-punk Xiu Xiu plays the angular rock so much in fashion these days but ventures outside the lines a bit more than others, collaborating with adventurous pals in Deerhoof. The arty Canadian collective Frog Eyes creates a sometimes mischievous, sometimes menacing carny cacophony. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111, $15. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

ANNIE ROSS (Tomorrow and Wednesday) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. Tomorrow at 3 p.m. and Wednesday at 9:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, (212)265-8133, $25, with a $12 minimum. (Stephen Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ERIC ALEXANDER QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Alexander is one of the leading inheritors of a muscular tenor saxophone style associated with the 1950's; his band includes the venerable hard-bop pianist Harold Mabern. 9 p.m., 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, Manhattan, (212)864-6662; cover, $25. (Nate Chinen)

WESS ANDERSON QUARTET (Through Sunday) An alto saxophonist with a tart and bluesy sound, Mr. Anderson enjoys substantial support here from the pianist Marc Cary. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum at the tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

MICHAEL ATTIAS TRIO (Tonight) Mr. Attias, an emphatically cosmopolitan saxophonist and composer, celebrates the release of his exhortatory new album ''Renku'' (Playscape); as on the disc, he's joined by the drummer Satoshi Takeishi and the bassist John Hebert. 9 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212)989-9319; cover, $8, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

DAVE BINNEY'S BALANCE (Tuesday) The alto saxophonist Dave Binney heeds an avant-gardism that embraces harmony, melody and rhythm, along with amplification; he receives sinuous support from the keyboardist Craig Taborn, the bassist Thomas Morgan and the drummer Dan Weiss. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

BRIAN BLADE FELLOWSHIP (Through Sunday) Mr. Blade is an in-demand drummer with an unusually sensitive approach to time; he turns the spotlight to his own painterly compositions in this group with the saxophonists Myron Walden and Chris Cheek, the guitarist Kurt Rosenwinkel, the pianist Jon Cowherd and the bassist Christopher Thomas. 9 and 11 p.m., with a 12:30 set tonight and tomorrow at the Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CARLA BLEY'S LOST CHORDS (Through Sunday) Off-kilter harmonies, goofy humor and subversive material are all trademarks of Ms. Bley, a pianist-composer whose band consists of Steve Swallow on electric bass, Andy Sheppard on saxophones and Billy Drummond on drums. 8 and 10 p.m. with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212)582-2121; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ROY CAMPBELL JR. (Tuesday and Thursday) A trumpeter, Mr. Campbell is a force in modern free jazz; he performs Tuesday in a quintet with the saxophonist Mixashawn Lee Rozie, and Thursday with the Nu Band, a strong collective quartet. Tuesday at 10 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m. at the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

RON CARTER QUARTET/JEFF (TAIN) WATTS QUARTET (Through Sunday) Mr. Carter has been an influential bassist for 40 years, and Mr. Watts ranks among the best drummers of the last 20; each leads a dynamic and impressively cohesive ensemble. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592; cover, $30 at tables with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

DIET COKE WOMEN IN JAZZ FESTIVAL (Tuesday through Oct. 2) Female vocalists and instrumentalists take to Dizzy's Club every night for nearly a month; the series begins with Angela Bofill and a different after-hours artist every night, including the inventive pianist-composer Angelica Sanchez (Tuesday) and the promising singer Julie Hardy (Wednesday). 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212)258-9595; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum at the tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

DAVID WEISS AND ENDANGERED SPECIES (Tuesday and Wednesday) The trumpeter David Weiss has proved himself a skilled composer for large ensembles; here he pays homage to a personal hero, Wayne Shorter, with a well-stocked 12-piece band. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

ROBERT GLASPER EXPERIMENT (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Glasper is an up-and-comer with a fluid command of postwar jazz piano; here he weaves together strands of contemporary funk, drum 'n' bass and hip-hop in a group featuring the alto saxophonist Casey Benjamin, the guitarist Lionel Loueke (tonight only), the bassist Mark Kelly and the drummer Chris Dave. 8 and 10 p.m. and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

GUNTER HAMPEL (Tomorrow) Mr. Hampel, a multi-instrumentalist with formidable avant-garde credentials, leads a cadre of co-conspirators that includes the saxophonist Johannes Schleiermacher, the clarinetist Perry Robinson and the trumpeter Roy Campbell Jr. 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

BARRY HARRIS QUINTET (Wednesday through Sept. 10) A crisp and courtly pianist firmly in the bebop idiom, Mr. Harris appears here in a quintet featuring the veteran baritone saxophonist Charles Davis. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

STEFON HARRIS AND BLACKOUT (Wednesday through Sept. 11) Mr. Harris, a mallet percussion whiz, brings megawatt showmanship to this dance-floor hybrid; he's ably abetted by the alto saxophonist Casey Benjamin, the keyboardist Marc Cary, the drummer Terreon Gully and the bassist Darryl Hall. 8 and 10 p.m. (8:30, 10:30 and 11:45 p.m. on Sept. 10), Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212)582-2121; cover, $25 to $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

SUSIE IBARRA TRIO (Thursday) Ms. Ibarra is a percussionist with a passion for texture and abstraction; her trio mates, the pianist Craig Taborn and the violinist Jennifer Choi, have similar designs. 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7501; cover, $10. (Chinen)

TONY MALABY TRIO (Wednesday) A powerful tenor saxophonist and a thoughtful composer, Mr. Malaby is at his best when he walks the line between bluster and restraint; he'll likely do so here, with Brad Jones and Tom Rainey on bass and drums. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

BOB MINTZER BIG BAND (Wednesday) Mr. Mintzer, a saxophonist and decade-long member of the Yellowjackets, has led this 16-piece outfit for roughly the same span of time; it's a brightly brassy ensemble with a modernistic sheen. 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

*PAUL MOTIAN, JOE LOVANO, BILL FRISELL (Tuesday through Sept. 18) Mr. Motian, a drummer and composer, sets a tone for this blue-chip trio that's shadowy and open-ended as a koan. There's no better place to see them than at the Vanguard, where they're playing for two weeks (excepting Sept. 12, when the incomparable Vanguard Orchestra makes its regular Monday-night stand). 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum ($25 cover Fridays and Saturdays). (Chinen)

DANILO PEREZ TRIO (Through Sunday) Mr. Perez, the Panamanian pianist, has a new CD, ''Live at the Jazz Showcase'' (ArtistShare), that features this excellent Latin jazz trio; as on the album, Ben Street and Adam Cruz are equal rhythmic partners, on bass and drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $20, $25 tonight and tomorrow night. (Chinen)

JIM ROTONDI QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Rotondi is an accomplished trumpeter with a predilection for hard-bop; his band includes the alto saxophonist Jim Snidero, the pianist David Hazeltine, the bassist John Webber and the drummer Willie Jones III. 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212)885-7119; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN SCOFIELD BAND (Tuesday through Sept. 11) ''That's What I Say'' (Verve), Mr. Scofield's latest album, is a spirited and sprawling tribute to the music of Ray Charles; he treads that turf here with a quintet that includes Meyer Statham on vocals and trombone, Gary Versace on keyboards, John Benitez on bass and Steve Hass on drums. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar, with a one-drink minimum . (Chinen)

TODD SICKAFOOSE (Tuesday) Mr. Sickafoose is a bassist-composer equally fond of rough edges and rounded forms; he showcases his own compositions in an improvising chamber ensemble that includes Alan Ferber on trombone and Jenny Scheinman on violin. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

MIKE STERN TRIO (Monday and Wednesday) A jazz-rock guitarist with an impeccable pedigree, Mr. Stern never fails to find stalwart sidemen, like the bassist Richard Bona and the drummer Lionel Cordew. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $15, includes two drinks. (Chinen)

LEW TABACKIN'S SPIRITS OF NEW YORK (Tonight and tomorrow) A gutsy tenor saxophonist and deeply lyrical flutist, Mr. Tabackin has a woefully low profile among the jazz public; but he has no problem attracting ace sidemen like the trumpeter Tom Harrell, the drummer Victor Lewis and the bassist Ray Drummond. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

*TRUMPET SHALL SOUND (Wednesday through Sept. 11) To commemorate the 10th anniversary of the Jazz Gallery, a space he helped establish, the trumpeter Roy Hargrove plays five consecutive nights, each with a different guest; next week's roster includes fellow youngblood Darren Barrett (Wednesday) and the seasoned pro Claudio Roditi (Thursday). 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212)242-1063; cover, $20 to $30; members, $10. (Chinen)

WILL VINSON QUINTET (Sunday) Mr. Vinson, a young alto saxophonist, favors the sort of progressive post-bop that gained traction in the mid-1960's; he gets strong support from Aaron Parks on piano, Lage Lund on guitar, Orlando le Fleming on bass and Rodney Green on drums. 9:30 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $7. (Chinen)

WILLIAMSBURG JAZZ FESTIVAL (Thursday through Sept. 11) This grass-roots affair, which briefly fills a small swatch of Brooklyn with modern jazz, kicks off next Thursday with performances by the Rachel Z Trio (at Laila) and Travis Sullivan's Bjorkestra (at Galapagos), along with opening acts. 8:30 p.m. at Laila, 113 North Seventh Street, between Wythe and Berry Streets, Williamsburg, (718)486-6791; admission, $15. 9 p.m. at Galapagos, 70 North Sixth Street, between Kent and Wythe Streets, Williamsburg, (718)782-5188; call for admission. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Thursday) There are few cozier places to hear chamber music in New York than this floating concert hall (a former coffee barge) on the Brooklyn side of the East River. Tonight, Niklas Sivelov, a Swedish pianist and composer, plays a wide-ranging program that includes works by Haydn, Schumann, Fredrik Hogberg, Scriabin and Ginastera. Tomorrow and Sunday, Mr. Sivelov joins Mark Peskanov, a pianist, and Sophie Shao, a cellist, for a new work of his own, as well as two Beethoven Trios (Op. 70, Nos. 1 and 2). And on Thursday, Jose Ramos Santana plays piano music by Albeniz and Hector Campos-Parsi. Today, tomorrow and Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 4 p.m. Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718)624-2083, $35; $30 for 65+. (Allan Kozinn)

SKANEATELES FESTIVAL (Tonight and tomorrow) This is the festival you seek out when most of the others in the area have folded their tents, but now it, too, is in its last weekend. Tucked away in Skaneateles, N.Y., near Syracuse, the event presents a chamber concert tonight that includes Brahms's mighty Piano Quintet. In the festival finale, tomorrow, Hilary Hahn plays Sibelius's Violin Concerto in a program that also includes Dvorak's delightful and seldom heard ''Czech Suite.'' Tonight at 8, First Presbyterian Church, 97 East Genesee Street; tomorrow at 8, Skaneateles High School, 49 East Elizabeth Street, (315)685-7418. Tickets: tonight, $16 and $21, $13 and $18 for students and 65+; tomorrow, $24 and $30. (James R. Oestreich)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

ANIME DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Saturday) A new satirical dance comedy by Kiyoko Kashiwagi, inspired by Japanese animations, that will unfold in a huge renovated commercial garage. 8 p.m., the Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718)482-7069, $15; pay what you will for Queens residents on Thursday.(Jennifer Dunning)

DANCENOW/NYC (Wednesday and Thursday) This most grass-roots of festivals will present dance by everyone from green youngsters and hot newcomers to seasoned choreographers and performers through Sept. 17 at spaces throughout Manhattan. The festival opens on Wednesday with a salute to Dance Theater Workshop on its 40th anniversary, followed by another program at that theater with more than 20 individuals, duos and companies. Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)924-0077 or dancenownyc.org, $25 (Wednesday) and $15 (Thursday). (Dunning)

FLAMENCO AND INDIAN MUSIC AND DANCE (Through Oct. 9) The always provocative exploration of Spanish and Indian dance rhythms and roots continues with this program performed by the Andrea Del Conte Danza Espana and Satya Narayan Charka, a Kathak soloist, and Chandra Banerjee, who performs Bharata Natyam. Tonight (and Thursdays and Fridays through Oct. 7) at 8 p.m.; tomorrow (and Saturdays through Oct. 8) at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays (through Oct. 9) at 4 p.m., Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 729-3880, $25 (Thursdays and Fridays); $30, and $27 for students and 65+ (Saturdays and Sundays). (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SELF AND SUBJECT,' through Sept. 11. From Grandma Moses' depiction of herself beguiled by infant descendants to A.G. Rizzoli's rendition of his mother as a Gothic cathedral, this refreshingly offbeat show of 20th-century self-taught artists covers a vivid range of portraits. 45 West 53rd Street, (212)265-1040. (Grace Glueck)

*BROOKLYN MUSEUM: LUCE CENTER FOR AMERICAN ART VISIBLE STORAGE/STUDY CENTER Sleek vitrines house 1,500 objects from four departments, representing 15 centuries of art and design of the Americas. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718)638-5000. (Roberta Smith)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'EXTREME TEXTILES,' through Oct. 30. Don't look for aesthetic pizzazz in this intensely techy show of industrial fibers and fabrics, but don't rule it out. The show's raison d'etre is solely use, but a lot of what's on view, in the first museum display of material made to function in extreme conditions, is visually exciting. 2 East 91st Street, (212)849-8400. (Glueck)

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE BISHOP JADES,' through Feb. 12. Jade has been treasured since ancient times, though the almost preposterously exquisite objects on display in the Met's reinstalled galleries for Chinese decorative arts date from the 18th century, when the Qing dynasty (1644-1911) brought Chinese jade work to a peak of virtuosity. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710. (Holland Cotter)

*MET: 'MATISSE: THE FABRIC OF DREAMS -- HIS ART AND HIS TEXTILES,' through Sept. 25. This somewhat scattered yet astounding exhibition demonstrates that as African sculptures were to the Cubists, so textiles were to Matisse, and revolutionizes the understanding of his life and work. (See above.) (Smith)

MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'DUAL VISION: THE SIMONA AND JEROME CHAZEN COLLECTION,' through Sept. 11. A selection of fair to good paintings by artists like Hans Hofmann, Richard Pousette-Dart, John McLaughlin and Roy Lichtenstein and a collection of mostly mediocre ceramics and art glass create a disjunctive hybrid of an exhibition. 40 West 53rd Street, (212)956-3535. (Ken Johnson)

MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'THE NEXT GENERATION: CONTEMPORARY EXPRESSIONS OF FAITH,' through Nov. 13. Works in this juried show of artists who belong to the organization Christians in the Visual Arts range from traditional paintings and sculptures to an interactive video and photo documentation of a shamanistic performance in the woods. Ambitious, optically captivating collages by Mary Fielding McCleary and Anita Breitenberg Naylor are among the few pieces that exceed familiar generic limitations. 1865 Broadway at 61st Street, (212)408-1500. (Johnson)

MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MOUNT ST. HELENS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANK GOHLKE,' through Sept. 26. A year after the eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington in 1980, this well-known landscape photographer began documenting the explosion's effect on the surrounding terrain. His expansive black-and-white pictures are formally and technically impeccable, but because they err on the side of understatement, they only partly convey a sense of the volcano's destructive violence. 11 West 53rd Street, (212)708-9400. (Johnson)

*MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PIONEERING MODERN PAINTING: CEZANNE AND PISSARRO,' through Sept. 12. The marriage of minds, sensibilities and influences that Cezanne and Pissarro shared is the subject of this rigorous, beautiful show. Unlike its predecessor, ''Matisse Picasso,'' it is less a grand opera than a lieder recital of deep-running, summer-green Schubertian pleasures. (See above.) (Cotter)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'FIRST AMERICAN ART,' through April 9. That American Indian art can provide the same aesthetic and emotional pleasure as European and American Modernism is the premise of this show, made up of 200 objects from the Charles and Valerie Diker Collection, and it affirms American Indian art's worthy aesthetic place in world culture. 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212)514-3700. (Glueck)

NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: JEAN HELION, through Oct. 9. Helion's conversion, around 1940, from a suave, smartly synthetic mode of geometric abstraction to a like-minded figurative style doesn't put him in a league with great 20th-century apostates like Giacometti, Picabia or Guston. Still, he produced a weirdly fascinating body of work that influenced Americans before and after World War II. This meager show does not give a full account of his strengths or weaknesses, but it is well worth a look. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212)369-4880. (Smith)

*NEUE GALERIE: 'WAR/HELL: MASTER PRINTS BY OTTO DIX AND MAX BECKMANN,' through Sept. 26. ''War,'' the German artist Otto Dix's great graphic condemnation of battle, a portfolio of 50 etchings rife with grisly images of trench life and death, battlefield corpses, civilian bombings and other horrors, published after World War I, is paired here with Max Beckmann's ''Hell,'' 10 lithographs from 1918 that comment on war's brutality but also give a sardonic view of the inhumanities he saw as the hell of everyday existence. Their presentation together heightens the impact of each. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212)628-6200. (Glueck)

* NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'SHANGRI-LA,' through Sept. 10. This film by Patty Chang, best known for her performance work, was made in China near the Tibet border. Loosely based on the 1930's novel ''Lost Horizons,'' Ms. Chang's film amplifies and shatters whatever the utopian realness of Shangri-La is, and does so with wit and visual panache. 556 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)219-1222. (Cotter)

P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'GREATER NEW YORK 2005,' through Sept. 26. A youth-besotted, cheerful, immodestly ingratiating, finally disappointing survey of contemporary art, perusing a scene whose wide stylistic range, emphasis on drawing, persistent teenage infatuations and overall dexterousness are firmly entrenched characteristics of the marketplace. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718)784-2084. (Michael Kimmelman)

QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'DOWN THE GARDEN PATH: THE ARTIST'S GARDEN AFTER MODERNISM,' through Nov. 6. This big, messy and uneven show, still a thought-provoking one for patient and interested viewers, surveys how artists like Vito Acconci, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Mel Chin, Ghada Amer, Stan Douglas and many more have cultivated gardens in fantasy and in reality. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718)592-9700.(Johnson)

* STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'SCRATCH: 2004-2005 ARTISTS-IN-RESIDENCE: WILLIAM CORDOVA, MICHAEL QUEENLAND AND MARC ANDRE ROBINSON,' through Oct. 23 . Rap, religion, Minimalism and Malcolm X all figure in this intricate, multilayered show of work by the three young residents, organized by the museum's associate curator, Christine Y. Kim. 144 West 125th Street, (212)864-4500. (Cotter)

UKRAINIAN MUSEUM: 'ALEXANDER ARCHIPENKO,' through Sept. 18. This rare retrospective of work by the Ukrainian-born sculptor opens the handsome, much-expanded new quarters of this museum. The most exciting part is a beautifully illuminated room of Archipenko's most radical pieces, which inspired later artists like Henry Moore. 222 East Sixth Street, East Village, (212)228-0110. (Glueck)

WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'REMOTE VIEWING,' through Oct. 9. The vast information overload the world struggles with -- scientific theory, technological data, geopolitical facts, historical material and on and on -- is whipped into visual cosmologies by eight painters of widely different approaches and sensibilities. If the premise is fuzzy, the show has some sharp art, including Carroll Dunham's witty ''Solar Eruption,'' a giant, battered yellow sun that suggests a cell invaded by virus particles, its perimeter bursting with splatlike -- and sometimes unseemly -- extrusions. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212)570-3600. (Glueck)

*WHITNEY MUSEUM: ROBERT SMITHSON, through Oct. 23. Who knows whether Smithson is the most influential American postwar artist, as this show claims. Consisting mostly of drawings, photographs and films (he didn't make that many sculptures, not ones that could fit into a museum, anyway), this is the first full-scale overview of him in the country. It is consequently dry but still compelling testimony to a great exuberance cut drastically short when Smithson died at 35 in a plane crash in 1973. Self-appointed spokesman for earth art, and scavenger of dirt, shells, slag and other materials from the industrial landscape, he helped to shove Minimalism, Conceptualism and Pop in various messy new directions during the 1960's and early 70's. Today, in an era of crabbed imagination and short-term profiteering, the sheer chutzpah of an artist like him is instructive. (See above.) (Kimmelman)

WHITNEY MUSEUM : BANKS VIOLETTE, through Oct. 2. In this labor-intensive installation, Romanticism, tragic violence and rock 'n' roll are evoked as much by the detailed wall label as by the ghostly beams of a burned-out church made of gleaming salt. (See above.) (Smith)

Galleries: Uptown

'BEYOND GEOGRAPHY: FORTY YEARS OF VISUAL ARTS AT THE AMERICAS SOCIETY' Anyone who wants to view art from a hemispheric perspective should see this review of four decades of adventurous art exhibiting by an organization founded to promote understanding among the nations of North, South and Central America. Works here range from a beautiful, all-gold Inca mask to a sound installation by the Canadian avant-garde filmmaker Michael Snow. Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street, (212)249-8950, through Oct. 8. (Johnson)

'LYONEL FEININGER (1871-1956), A SMALL RETROSPECTIVE OF WORKS ON PAPER' Mostly based on Feininger's constant companion, a sketchbook where he recorded his visual impressions, this show of about 70 small sketches, drawings and watercolors covers his career from 1892, before his artistic direction was clear, to 1953, three years before his death. Fired up by the architectural forms of sailboats, spired churches and soaring skyscrapers, he eventually developed a distinctive style combining radiant planes with lines and geometric forms. The show gives a partial but lively account of his journeys, geographical and aesthetic. Achim Moeller Fine Art, 167 East 73rd Street, (212)988-4500, through Sept. 16. (Glueck)

IRIS VAN DONGEN: 'AURELIA' Most prominent among works playing with various styles are large, possibly ironic drawings of beautiful young women that look as if they were made for the covers of modern romance novels. Salon 94, 12 East 94th Street, (646)672-9212, through Sept. 15. (Johnson)

Galleries: 57th Street

'INTRODUCTIONS' Three one-person minishows: oblique, conceptually evocative photographs by Tim Davis; lurid and juicy paintings of ornate theater interiors by Emi Avora; and diverse drawings and photographs, some funny, some poetic, by Barry Ratoff. Greenberg Van Doren, 730 Fifth Avenue, (212)445-0444, through Sept. 30. (Johnson)

*'REPEAT PERFORMANCE' More than 20 artists use repetition as their main formal device and many different kinds of materials. The show includes concentric circles drawn by Eva Hesse; black pinstripes painted by Frank Stella; solid glass orbs with opalescent surfaces attached to the wall by Tom Bell; colored wax copies of plastic tumblers by George Stoll; and botanically accurate leaves made entirely of staples by Alison Foshee. Anthony Grant, 37 West 57th Street, (212)755-0434, through Sept. 17. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

'ANOTHER EXPO: BEYOND THE NATION STATE' An international group of eight politically minded conceptualists take on nationalism. The most striking work is Marina Abramovic's large, staged photograph of herself sitting in a mournful posture on a pile of bloody bones. White Box, 525 West 26th Street, (212)714-2347, through Sept. 10. (Johnson)

*JUSTIN LOWE This gallery's back room is basically just an extension of a store, but to round out a long, hot city summer, Mr. Lowe has turned it into a combination gallery, library and listening room. Printed Matter gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (212)925-0325, through Sept. 24. (Cotter)

'ON VIEW: PHOTOGRAPHING THE MUSEUM' Among 20 well-selected ways of picturing the museum are Elliot Erwitt's view of a naked, sculptural Diana aiming her arrow at an unsuspecting live male visitor; wax figures by Hiroshi Sugimoto and Diane Arbus; a specimen drawer full of cardinals (birds, that is) by Terry Evans; and the dreamlike image of three real foxes in a formal period room by Karen Knorr. Yancey Richardson, 535 West 22nd Street, (646)230-9610, through Sept. 17. (Johnson)

*BILL OWENS: 'AMERICA' In new 16-by-20-inch prints, Mr. Owens's photographs of white suburbanites from the 1970's remain poetically beguiling and dryly comical. James Cohan, 533 West 26th Street, (212)714-9500, through Sept. 24. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

'ALONG THE WAY: M.T.A. ARTS FOR TRANSIT' This extensive survey of artworks commissioned over the last two decades by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is more that just a promotional event. Including paintings, drawings, photographs and sculptures by dozens of well-known artists, it is a fascinating window onto an artscape usually only glimpsed by commuters in bits and pieces. UBS, 1285 Sixth Avenue, at 51st Street, (212)713-2885, through Sept. 9. (Johnson)

'ARTISTS AND PATRONS IN TRADITIONAL AFRICAN CULTURES: AFRICAN SCULPTURE FROM THE GARY SCHULZE COLLECTION' Queensborough Community College has quietly assembled an impressive collection of African art. A year ago, the college inaugurated a permanent display of the collection in its campus gallery. And this summer the gallery is presenting a temporary exhibition of nearly 100 sculptures from a private collection. Queensborough Community College Art Gallery, the City University of New York, 222-05 56th Avenue, Bayside, Queens, (718)631-6396, through Sept. 30. (Cotter)

JOHN BEECH Mr. Beech's elegant, subtly humorous sculptures conjoin Minimalism and utilitarianism; a tall aqua box, for example, looks like a container for parts in a factory that Donald Judd might have built. Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212)343-0441, through Sept. 10, by appointment. (Johnson)

'EXILE, NEW YORK IS A GOOD HOTEL' This new gallery, established by the German-based critic and curator Anke Kempkes, offers a spectacular view of the Empire State Building and a show of work by young artists from Berlin, Glasgow and Warsaw, along with a collaborative slide piece by the New Yorkers Ken Okiishi and Nick Mauss. Broadway 1602, 1182 Broadway, near 28th Street, Apt. 1602, (212)481-0362, through Sept. 16, by appointment. (Cotter)

'A.B. NORMAL' Seven artists, including John Bock, Tim Hawkinson and Rirkrit Tiravanija, mostly deal in eccentric machinery. Best is a life-size hyper-realistic Zamboni made of rigid pale-green insulation foam by Chris Hanson & Hendrika Sonnenberg. Nyehaus, 15 Gramercy Park South, (212)473-4447, through Sept. 10. (Johnson)

JULIAN OPIE: 'ANIMALS, BUILDINGS, CARS AND PEOPLE' Outdoor sculptures in a coolly understated neo-Pop style, including cars, animals and a group of white skyscrapers with grids of black windows. City Hall Park, Lower Manhattan, (212)980-4575, through Oct. 15. (Johnson)

'PRECIOUS MOMENTS' Mall culture, with its peculiar poignancies, is the theme of ''Precious Moments,'' a smart, sad five-person show organized by the artist Josh Kline. Joymore, 236 Grand Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (646)270-0376, through Sept. 10. (Cotter)

SYLVIA SLEIGH Ms. Sleigh is best known for the male odalisques she painted in the 1970's. The ones in this seven-decade retrospective are comical and embarrassing but still wonderful documents of first-wave feminism, and so is the large 1977 group portrait of members of the all-female cooperative gallery A.I.R. The Newhouse Center for Contemporary Art, at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, Staten Island, (718)448-2500, through Oct. 2. (Johnson)

Last Chance

*AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'ANCESTRY AND INNOVATION' This selection of quilts, paintings, sculptures and drawings by several generations of self-taught artists jumps with color and talent, and reflects a sharp curatorial eye. 45 West 53rd Street, (212)265-1040, closing on Sunday. (Smith)

'BODY AND OBJECTS' Depending on your mood, this three-person show might provoke thought or irritation. Most striking are Jiang Zhi's large photographs of two topless dancers, one a woman who has had a double mastectomy, the other a transsexual with breast implants. Tang Yi presents a series of photographs of a young woman blowing up colored balloons into a birdcage, and Chu Yun offers worn bars of soap as miniature sculptures formed by contact with his body. Chambers, 210 11th Avenue, near 24th Street, Chelsea, (212)414-1169, closing today. (Johnson)

BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'MONET'S LONDON: ARTISTS' REFLECTIONS ON THE THAMES, 1859-1914' This polished and studiously dry show has a dozen of Monet's wildly, paradisaically pretty paintings at its center, surrounded by images of London, many of them prints and photographs by other artists, including Whistler and figures now known primarily to art historians. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718)638-5000, closing on Sunday. (Cotter)

COOPER-HEWITT: 'HELLA JONGERIUS SELECTS,' closing on Sunday. Sifting through the museum's outstanding holdings in embroidered samplers, this innovative Dutch designer has selected a wonderfully reverberant show and also based a series of new wall hangings on sampler motifs. Their combined display diagrams the fraught but essential symbiosis of old and new. 2 East 91st Street, (212)849-8400. (Smith)

'DRUNK VS. STONED' This show eschews the usual aesthetic dualities for one that is less about style than lifestyle and proves that it is useful in sorting artworks and their effects. The 39 works assembled represent all mediums and several generations, from early explorers of altered states like Henri Michaux, R. Crumb and Bruce Conner to younger artists like Jason Fox, Huma Bhabha, Evan Holloway Adam McEwen and the Dearraindrop collective. Several touch directly on substance use and abuse in terms of its physiological or interpersonal impact or its social (read class) implications. Others are involved with what might be called the formal aspects of drunk (extroverted, emotional, robustly physical) as opposed to stoned (mesmerizing, becalmed, obsessively repetitious). In some pieces the twain meet. Others are unexpectedly pressed into service by one side or the other and cast in new light. For example, Charles Ray's 1996 short film, ''Fashions,'' comes across here as a masterpiece of stoner focus. ''Better Than Nauman,'' Mike Kelley's video installation, on view in the gallery's old space at Passerby, constitutes drunken subject matter in stoner form. Gavin Brown Enterprise, 620 Greenwich Street, at Leroy Street, Greenwich Village, and Passerby, 436 West 15th Street, Chelsea (212)627-5258, closing on Wednesday. (Smith)

*WILLIAM EGGLESTON: 'THE NIGHTCLUB PORTRAITS' The photographer known for his jewel-like color photographs of scenes of Southern decrepitude made these powerfully lucid black-and-white portraits of customers in bars around Memphis in 1973. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-7727, closing today. (Johnson)

'GIRLS ON FILM' More than 30 artists, from Francis Picabia and Mel Ramos to Lisa Yuskavage and John Currin, are featured in an entertaining exhibition about art inspired by popular erotica. Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212)517-8677, closing today. (Johnson)

*INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'YOUNG AMERICA' The daguerreotype, an early version of photography, though invented in Europe, was a huge hit in the United States, and you can see why in these extraordinary pictures of a country's political and intellectual elite and its well-heeled citizens. Taken by two members of a well-known Boston studio, each picture glows on the wall like a stone in a mood ring, or a computer screen floating in space. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212)857-0000, closing on Sunday. (Cotter)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'GEORGE CATLIN AND HIS INDIAN GALLERY' The portraits and landscapes here give an account of Plains Indian life in the 1830's in wonderful and sometimes harrowing detail. Viewing it is a remarkable experience. 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212)514-3700, closing on Monday. (Glueck)

'SELF-PRESERVATION SOCIETY' A longtime holdout finally moves to Chelsea and opens a sleek space with a lively show of gallery regulars. Basketball fans must see Tom Sanford's comic-realist painting of last season's infamous brawl between the Pacers and the Pistons. Leo Koenig, 545 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212)334-9255, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

PETER WEGNER: 'LEVER LABYRINTH' Ever wonder what two and a half million sheets of paper would look like? Here they are in stacks of different shades of green. The paper stacks form a maze in the Lever House lobby that you can wander through as though following a path through a geometricized forest. Lever House, 390 Park Avenue, at 52nd Street, (212)421-7927, closing on Sunday. (Johnson)


GRAPHIC: Photos: POP -- The mountain-music patriarch Doc Watson will take part in the Roots of American Music Festival at Lincoln Center, Page 21. (Photo by Jack Vartoogian/FrontRowPhotos)
DANCE -- Pearsonwidrig Dancetheater will take its athletic choreography to the grass-roots festival Dancenow/NYC, Page 21. (Photo by Tom Caravaglia)
 THEATER -- Marian Seldes stars in ''Dedication, or the Stuff of Dreams,'' Terrence McNally's comedy of mortality at the 59E59 Theaters, below. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MUSIC (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); THEATER (58%); WRITERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



32 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Economy Was Showing Strain Before Storm

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
Rising energy prices were taking their toll on businesses and consumers even before Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast's oil rigs and refineries, industry surveys and government data showed yesterday.
 Manufacturing was weakening in August, and consumers were going further into debt in July to maintain their spending, propping up retailers.
 The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index was at 53.6 percent last month, down far more than expected and its lowest level since May. 
 ''Business is extremely strong, but energy volatility is playing havoc with planning and pricing scenarios,'' the survey quoted a chemical industry supply manager as saying.
 Now the energy-related concerns that have been clouding the economy over the summer could loom much larger in the weeks to come, economists said.
 ''Even before the hurricane hit, rising energy prices were having a dampening effect on the economy,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist of Global Insight, an economic research firm in Lexington, Mass. ''And so you have to believe that after the hurricane, with energy prices going even higher, that this could create serious problems for the economy, especially in the next three months.
 ''The higher energy costs will put a squeeze on both businesses and households. They're spending so much on energy -- the households on gasoline, the airlines on jet fuel, for example -- that they'll have to curtail elsewhere.''
 Consumer spending grew 1 percent in July -- matching June's increase as the largest since May 2004 -- as consumers took advantage of the auto industry's aggressive discounts. 
 Over all, consumers spent more than they saved, bringing the saving rate to a new low, a negative 0.6 percent. 
 And in August, they kept on shopping. Retail sales rose 3.7 percent, from August of last year, according to Goldman Sachs.
 While Wal-Mart Stores said that fuel costs were eating into its customers' discretionary income and hurting sales growth, other discounters, like Target and Costco, said they were enjoying an influx of shoppers. 
 And although department stores continued to falter, some specialty retailers, like Abercrombie & Fitch, reported year-over-year sales growth of more than 20 percent.
 Much of the retail industry's performance was better than what Wall Street analysts had expected. 
 ''It was a weak month over all, but generally above reduced expectations,'' said Todd D. Slater, senior retail analyst at Lazard.
 Sales in September ''will be challenged early and improve throughout the month,'' Mr. Slater said, as Gulf Coast residents displaced by Katrina begin to rebuild and as cooler weather prompts the rest of the country to buy fall clothing. 
 But what happens if gas prices continue to cruise past $3? 
 Mr. Slater was not overly worried. ''Look, gas prices have been up every single month of the year,'' he said. ''This has been an ongoing problem, and the consumer has been relatively resilient.''
 On the other hand, consumers may finally be jolted into cutting back, said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc., an economic research firm in New York. While buyers have continued to spend over the last year, ''I don't think you can make that case when you're at three and a half bucks a gallon,'' he said.
 ''Certainly it's enough of a shock to affect short-term activity,'' he added. ''I think September is going to look pretty lousy in terms of consumer data.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); JET FUEL (70%); AIRLINES (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%) 

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute for Supply Management

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); GS (NYSE) (56%); WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (52%) Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



33 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Japan Firm Bids for 7-Eleven

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Japan's largest retailer, Seven & I Holdings, said Thursday that it was offering $1 billion to buy the 27 percent of 7-Eleven, the ubiquitous convenience store chain, that it did not already own.
 The deal is one of the biggest investments by a Japanese company in the United States in recent years, and would make 7-Eleven a fully owned subsidiary of the Japanese company. 
Founded in Dallas 78 years ago, 7-Eleven pioneered the concept of small grocery stores offering convenient long hours, and it later grew into the largest such company in the world.
Ito-Yokado, now a unit of Seven & I, first bought a controlling stake in 7-Eleven in 1991, when Japanese companies were gobbling up American companies. The purchase of a household name in American retailing was widely seen as a symbol of Japan's economic rise.
 Seven & I itself is a newly created holding company that began official operations on Thursday. The holding company was formed by the department store chain Ito-Yokado, and also Seven-Eleven Japan and Denny's Japan, the operators of 7-Eleven stores and Denny's restaurants in Japan. 
 Seven & I said on its Web site that it was offering $32.50 for each share of 7-Eleven, about a 15 percent premium over the shares' closing price on Wednesday. The news sent 7-Eleven shares soaring 22 percent.
 In a statement, 7-Eleven said that it had appointed a special committee of its board to review the offer and make a recommendation by Sept. 19.
 In the statement, Seven & I said it wanted to complete the buyout of 7-Eleven, one of its most profitable units, before making new investments in the American company like renovating stores and improving logistics and computer systems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); WEB SITES (51%) Convenience Stores ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Capital Investment

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (90%); SEVEN & I HOLDINGS CO LTD (84%); SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN CO LTD (55%); DENNY'S CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Seven & I Holdings; Seven-Eleven Inc

TICKER: 3382 (TSE) (84%); DENN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (84%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (90%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



34 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE: VC NATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Billion-Dollar Baby Dot-Coms? Uh-Oh, Not Again

BYLINE: By Gary Rivlin

 BODY:
JIM BREYER, a top Silicon Valley venture capitalist, knows that the $12.2 million his firm paid for a modest stake in Facebook, an online service immensely popular with the college set, is a lot of money. 
 So he's not surprised that some are pointing to that deal as proof that inflation is back in the venture world -- a development that can't help but stir memories of the late 1990's.
''Certainly relative to many other deals, especially deals at this same stage, the price was significantly higher,'' said Mr. Breyer, of Accel Partners. 
 Venture capital, to be sure, is a sport played best by risk takers who understand that the cost of getting into a deal doesn't matter nearly as much as the price someone else -- whether a larger company or investors through an initial public offering -- is willing to pay at the exit. There were plenty of V.C.'s who once declared absurd the $4 million that Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers paid in 1994 for roughly a quarter of Netscape. That, of course, proved to be one of the more lucrative venture investments of the Internet era. 
 And there was no shortage of naysayers in 1999, when Kleiner Perkins and a second firm, Sequoia Capital, spent nearly $25 million combined to buy 10 percent each in Google -- an ownership stake that eventually would be worth multiple billions.
 ''Many of the best deals for us historically at Accel -- as well as many of the best deals in the venture capital business -- were done at very significant valuations,'' Mr. Breyer said. The valuation is the worth of a start-up on paper, established so that venture capitalists making an investment can determine the percentage of a company they are buying. 
 At the same time, however, a lot of the worst deals in venture history also were pricey deals done at highly inflated prices.
 Among venture capitalists it's a poorly kept secret that Facebook's valuation came in just shy of $100 million. Assuming that's true (Mr. Breyer declined to say), Accel paid a little more than $12 million for roughly a 15 percent share. 
 Which is a very steep price for a company that even Mr. Breyer acknowledges is a risky venture. The company says that 3.6 million collegians are currently registered at facebook.com to use this online equivalent of the ''meet'' book that many colleges issue to their freshmen.
 The high price of the Facebook deal is hardly an isolated case. Tongues were flapping this week over the $19.5 million that three venture firms invested in Jobster, a recruiting service used by corporate clients. 
 And they were wagging two weeks earlier, when word spread that a well-heeled group of private investors were set to invest in Odeo, a start-up hoping to cash in on the podcasting phenomenon -- until the venture firm Charles River Ventures proved willing to offer three times as rich a price. 
 Some angel investors, including Mitchell D. Kapor, the founder of Lotus Development, still chose to invest in Odeo. For one thing, Mr. Kapor said, ''the original valuation was a real bargain, maybe even a steal.'' For another, ''it's not the entry value which matters as much as the exit value.'' 
 In other words, if Odeo goes public, or if a larger company pays a handsome premium to buy it, only those scared off by the high price of admission will harbor regrets. 
 Few in the venture world seem to doubt that inflation has hit the industry. Valuations remain flat, according to data provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers, Thomson Venture Economics and the National Venture Capital Association, but their numbers represent the first three months of 2005. 
 Even George Zachary, the partner at Charles River who did the Odeo deal, said, ''We're seeing a valuation creep like we saw five or six years ago.'' Valuations are hardly at 2000 levels, but, Mr. Zachary said, ''we're seeing the same dynamic as then.''
 So far such inflation has been limited to so-called quality deals -- but as Paul S. Kedrosky, a professor at the University of California, San Diego, who studies venture capital, noted, ''You're seeing an inflation out there for deals people deem as quality, but what they see as quality is pretty whimsical.'' 
 Nowadays an entrepreneur whose resume indicates that he worked a few years at Yahoo, he said, ''seems to be an indication of a quality deal'' -- and a deal for which venture capitalists will pay dearly in the hopes that they are investing in the next Google.
 ''The only way to rationalize some of these valuations is to believe that a greater fool will come along and be willing to pay more,'' he said. ''The problem is I just don't see it.'' 
 Apparently, however, plenty of others do. Roughly a dozen venture firms competed to own a piece of Facebook, though that means the company ultimately will need to be worth somewhere around $1 billion for Mr. Breyer and his partners to earn 10 times their original investment.
 ''We always go into a deal hoping to make 10 times our money,'' Mr. Breyer said. ''I don't know how this one will play out, but for now it's going extremely well.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Start-Up Valuation''Early-stage 12-month avg. ended first qtr. each yearGraph tracks early-stage 12-month avg. ended first qtr. each year since 1997.(Source by PricewaterhouseCoopers/Thomson Venture Economics/National Venture Capital Association MoneyTree Survey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (69%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (55%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Accel Partners; Facebook.com

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: James Breyer; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



35 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE OIL SUPPLY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Oil Operations Remain in Disarray 

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The Gulf of Mexico, the nation's largest energy center, was still reeling yesterday, four days after Hurricane Katrina, crippling gasoline supplies in some pockets of the country. In the face of the turmoil, the government stepped up its release of strategic oil stocks to refiners. 
 The Bush administration said it approved a loan of six million barrels from the emergency reserve to Exxon Mobil, and another one million barrels to Placid Refining. A third company, Valero, will receive 1.5 million barrels. The new supply is, however, far less than what is needed to make up for the expected loss of production from the gulf -- a region that accounts for over a quarter of domestic oil supplies.
Much of the gulf area's production and refining remained shut yesterday, but the first signs emerged that at least some parts of the region's intricate energy infrastructure were slowly coming back. Two important pipelines that supply oil products to the East Coast began limited operations again, supported by emergency power supplies. And a huge oil-importing terminal in Louisiana provided reassurance that it would resume receiving oil tankers soon. 
 Still, nine major Louisiana refineries remained without power, according to the Energy Department. At least four others were running at reduced capacity. In all, at least 1.8 million barrels a day of refining capacity is still down, or about 10 percent of the nation's total.
 Retail gasoline prices have surged in recent days to over $3 a gallon in many parts of the country. Prices increased as much as 50 cents a gallon overnight, with Illinois, Michigan, Texas and Pennsylvania reporting some of the biggest increases. 
 The nationwide average for premium fuel was $2.95 yesterday, up from $2.88 on Wednesday and $2.42 a month ago.
 Two days before the Labor Day weekend, when millions of people typically hit the roads for the last big summer holiday, President Bush asked Americans to curb their gasoline consumption. ''Americans should be prudent in their use of energy during the course of the next few weeks,'' Mr. Bush said yesterday. ''Don't buy gas if you don't need it.''
 But while tapping the reserve and bringing in additional imports will provide a quick injection of oil into the system, they will do little to get refineries hit by the storm up and running again. What is certain already is that Hurricane Katrina produced what economists had feared most, a dislocation of oil and gas supplies on a global scale and the prospect of even higher energy prices.
 ''We have lost a lot of supplies at a time when we were very vulnerable,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, an oil consulting firm in Washington. ''How high prices go will depend on how quickly refiners can get back on.''
 PFC Energy estimated that 820,000 barrels a day of refining capacity was badly flooded and would remain without power for weeks.
 The prospect of a sustained drop in refining operations pushed the price of oil products on the New York Mercantile Exchange up again yesterday. Gasoline futures for October delivery closed at $2.409 a gallon, up 15.37 cents. The September contract expired at $2.61 a gallon on Wednesday. Crude oil futures closed at $69.47 a barrel, up 53 cents. 
 Gasoline stocks have fallen for nine consecutive weeks and are at their lowest since November 2003. Last week, they dropped by 500,000, to 194 million barrels -- enough to supply the country's total gasoline consumption of 9.4 million barrels a day for about 20 days.
 ''The United States is facing a major gasoline crisis and is starting from a nearly empty tank,'' Barclays Capital said in a note.
 The White House has already approved more loans from the strategic oil reserves than the 5.4 million barrels it released after Hurricane Ivan, which hit the gulf last September. The administration also relaxed shipping rules to allow foreign ships to transport oil and gasoline between American ports to make up for shortages in some sections of the country.
 ''By utilizing the resources from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, we will help minimize any potential supply disruptions as a result of the hurricane,'' Samuel W. Bodman, the energy secretary, said in a statement. 
 But the real problem, said Frank A. Verrastro, the head of the energy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, ''is the refining capacity, not crude.''
 The first hurdle to overcome is the lack of electrical power.
 The Louisiana Offshore Oil Port, an import terminal with a capacity of 1.2 million barrels of crude oil a day, said it had suffered only minimal damage but had not been able to take deliveries from oil tankers because it was waiting for power to be restored to its onshore storage operation in Galliano, about 74 miles south of New Orleans. 
 ''I really feel confident that we will be going as soon as we have energy,'' said Tommy Martinez, executive director of the agency that regulates the terminal. Port Fourchon, which serves offshore rigs, platforms and the offshore oil terminal, is still struggling to get back to full capacity. 
 Ships that use the port, which is about 100 miles south of New Orleans, still cannot sail through the clogged waterways that connect it to the Mississippi River and other shipping channels, said Ted M. Falgout, the port's executive director. Bridges along those waterways are not operating because they do not have power. 
 The pipelines that transport oil or refined products to the Northeast, the Midwest and the Southeast reported some limited improvements.
 Valero, the nation's largest independent refiner, said it had restored power to its refinery in St. Charles, La., and that a quarter of its employees had managed to return to work. Initial reports from the company suggested that it would take as long as two weeks to restart the flooded refinery. 
 Chevron said that that its refinery in Pascagoula, Miss., which has a capacity of 325,000 barrels a day, had escaped ''catastrophic damage'' thanks to a dike that has held up. But the plant remain shut.
 The delays at refineries and pipelines rippled through the system. One gasoline wholesaler, Petroleum Traders , reported it was being cut off by BP and Marathon, which have contracts that allow them to supply their own distributors first during supply shocks. Exxon Mobil and Chevron also warned of gasoline disruptions.
 To make up for the domestic shortfall, oil companies began taking measures to increase their imports of gasoline and diesel fuel from Europe. Bloomberg News reported that as many as 10 tankers were booked by companies, including BP, Chevron and ConocoPhillips, to ship about 130 million gallons of gasoline.
 But even if imports grow, much depends on how quickly oil production can be restored in the gulf.
 The Gulf of Mexico accounts for about 1.5 percent of global oil production but with little spare production capacity anywhere around the world, its impact is being felt far beyond the region's storm-hit coast.
 More than 90 percent of the gulf's daily oil output was still closed. Natural gas production was down by 79 percent, a slight improvement over Wednesday, the Interior Department reported. That did not ease the pressure on the markets, with natural gas futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange rising 2.5 percent, to $11.757 a thousand cubic feet.
 Since Aug. 26, more than 7.4 million barrels of oil, or 1.3 percent of the gulf's yearly production, has not been produced as a consequence of the storm. 
 Another uncertainty looms over the gulf's energy infrastructure. 
 When Hurricane Ivan hit the gulf last September, it created underwater mud slides that uprooted crucial underwater pipelines, delaying the return of full production for six months. In all, that storm cut oil production by 43.8 million barrels. 
 So far, there is no indication of the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the gulf's 33,000 miles of underwater pipelines, a seabed grid that links thousands of offshore platforms to refiners and storage tanks on the coast.
 ''For all the talk of political uncertainty in Nigeria or Russia or Venezuela last year, the biggest single loss of production was from Ivan,'' Mr. Verrastro at the study center in Washington said. ''Our definition of risk might be changing. The weather is becoming one of the biggest factors.''
 With hundreds of thousands of people homeless, oil companies were facing more basic problems, even such previously simple tasks as contacting employees. Chevron is advertising a toll-free number for its workers.
 ''On the top of our agenda is finding where our employees are,'' said Mickey Driver, a Chevron spokesman in Houston. ''It's a major concern for us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An oil well damaged by Katrina spilled oil into coastal waters Wednesday near Port Fourchon, 100 miles southeast of New Orleans. (Photo by Scott Saltzman/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
Some motorists in Biloxi, Miss., tried to save fuel yesterday by pushing their car as they waited in line to buy gasoline, which is in short supply. (Photo by Joe Skipper/Reuters)(pg. C4)Chart/Map: ''In the Gulf, A Battered Industry''REFINERIES -- Nine major plants providing at least 10 percent of the nation's capacity remain shut with many expected to take weeks to restart. In Pascagoula, Miss., Chevron is setting up a tent city for 1,500 workers.OFFSHORE RIGS AND PLATFORMS -- Shell's Mars platform, which produced as much as 15 percent of gulf oil, suffered major damage. Nearly 500 are not operating
 inspections are just starting.UNDERWATER PIPELINES -- The gulf has 33,000 miles of pipelines, vulnerable to underwater mudslides, anchors dragged by drifting platforms and strong currents. The extent of damage is not known.LOUISIANA OFFSHORE OIL PORT -- Some 1 million barrels of imported oil is usually unloaded at this deepwater terminal each day. After pipeline tests, limited operations are expected to resume soon.Map of Gulf Coast highlighting path of Hurricane Katrina and affected refineries, major gas pipelines, major oil pipelines, underwater pipelines, platforms and rigs. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); WEATHER (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (71%); CONSUMPTION (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); US LABOR DAY (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); BULK SHIPPING (57%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Refineries; Strategic Petroleum Reserve ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; International Trade and World Market; Tankers

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil; Placid Refining Co; Valero Energy Corp; Energy Department

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Jad Mouawad; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Gulf of Mexico; Eastern States (US); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



36 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Without Their City, With Their Team

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The musician and actor Harry Connick Jr. stood on Canal Street in New Orleans yesterday morning, a Saints cap on his head, discussing Hurricane Katrina's devastation of his hometown with Katie Couric of NBC's ''Today'' show.
 Connick praised the strength of the city's people and said he had been asked if he could fathom spending three days in the Superdome, as thousands who did not evacuate the city had done. His reply reflected the decades of suffering that Saints fan have endured: ''It can't be any worse than spending three hours in the Superdome watching some of those Saints games we've had in the past. We're tough people. We're diehard.'' 
As the N.F.L. and the Saints contemplate where the team will play its home games this season, and whether New Orleans will be able to support a pro football team again, it is worth noting that the Big Easy was Fox's second-highest-rated market last year with a 23.5, right behind Milwaukee.
 That rating is a sign of the passion for the Saints in New Orleans, a city of 462,269 people -- smallish by N.F.L. standards -- and what makes it even more remarkable is that there were five local television blackouts because the Saints did not sell out the Superdome, their home since 1975. 
 For the two home games that sold out last season, WVUE-TV, Fox's now inoperable local station, generated a 31.5 rating against San Francisco and a 32.5 against Tampa Bay. In the New Orleans market, each rating point equals only 6,721 TV households.
 All that has changed. The city is flooded, looting is widespread and thousands may be dead. The region's economy has been ravaged and could take years to recover. 
 For now, the state of television viewing in New Orleans is a minor concern, but however many fans are capable of watching will crave the distraction and the bonding experience of watching games, as sports fans did after the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 ''It will be vitally important for people to watch, however widely they are dispersed,'' said Marc Ganis, a sports-business consultant in Chicago. ''It will help them come together, even though they're doing it electronically.''
 Fox is planning to televise Saints games to more than the 15 to 20 percent of the country that they are usually seen in, when combining the markets aligned with the Saints and their opponents. The Saints' natural turf in Louisiana is New Orleans, Baton Rouge, Alexandria and Monroe; in Mississippi, it is Biloxi and Jackson; and in Alabama, it is Mobile. Sometimes, Memphis is added to the mix.
 Now, mindful of the dispersal of New Orleans residents who evacuated, Fox will add the Texas markets of Houston, San Antonio and Beaumont, and parts of Missouri for the Saints' opener on Sept. 11 against Carolina. The Texas cities had been scheduled to see the Bears-Redskins game in Week 1. 
 Dan Bell, a spokesman for Fox Sports, said, ''Given the extraordinary circumstances, we'll try to make this consistent throughout the season.''
 Another factor that will affect TV viewing will be up to the N.F.L. If the Saints play home games in Baton Rouge, the league will have to lift the blackout to let as many local fans as possible watch. If the Saints eventually return to the Superdome, they are not likely to sell out, given the depleted population, and the stadium would be more of a giant TV studio than a home field.
 Greg Aiello, an N.F.L. spokesman, said that until a decision was made on where the Saints would play, he could not discuss the blackout issue.
 On CNBC yesterday, Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said that the N.F.L.'s assumption was that it would be ''difficult if not impossible to play in New Orleans at all this year.'' He added that ''sport is a small part of life'' and that the league would use its visibility ''to support the national recovery program.''
 Where the Saints will play next year is also an open question. The team's owner, Tom Benson, has been perpetually dissatisfied with his lease, and Louisiana is less likely than ever to be able to pay the team an average of $18.6 million a year. The last two years, the Superdome Commission had to borrow to pay Benson what it owed him. The team can escape its lease after this season but would have to pay the state $81 million. The state can get out of the lease after the 2006 season.
 The league is trying to build a stadium in Los Angeles or Anaheim before it chooses a team to occupy it or an owner. Benson said recently that he would not sell or move the team from New Orleans, but the city's decimation might force him to alter his plans.
 ''New Orleans has always been a marginal market for the N.F.L., and this disaster doesn't improve their situation,'' said John Moag, the investment banker who paved the Cleveland Browns' move to Baltimore. 
 ''Mr. Benson was evaluating whether to stay before this, but he may not have that luxury anymore.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (86%); HURRICANES (78%); SPORTS FANS (75%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); TERRORISM (72%); SPORTS BUSINESS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (94%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



37 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; A Desperate Search for Relief, and for Answers; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: A Question of Leadership

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 President Bush has indeed failed to demonstrate leadership in this national crisis. After 9/11, the president did not ask Americans to sacrifice, but rather to spend and shop to keep the economy moving.
 That may have worked then, but given the disruption to oil supplies and refining capabilities after Hurricane Katrina, the president should ask Americans to sacrifice by conserving gas and fuel to help avert shortages and major price increases. 

Robert Fenstermacher
White Plains, Sept. 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HURRICANES (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); PRICE CHANGES (84%); HURRICANE KATRINA (83%); WEATHER (83%); PRICE INCREASES (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shortages; Conservation of Resources

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Robert Fenstermacher; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005



38 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: An Economy Raised On Pork

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich. 
Robert B. Reich, a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University, was the secretary of labor from 1993 to 1997.

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
THE old work-force compact is in shreds. Paychecks that rose with productivity gains through the middle decades of the 20th century no longer do so. Since the early 1970's, national product per person has grown more than 75 percent, but the median wage of male workers has risen barely two cents, adjusted for inflation, from $15.24 in 1973 to just $15.26 last year. Family incomes are up only because wives have gone into paid work and everyone's putting in more hours. Job loss often means loss of health insurance and a tax-advantaged pension. 
 Oil shocks, hurricanes and housing bubbles aside, consumers who are worried about their jobs and wages will be reluctant to buy goods and services, thereby dampening any recovery. But the new insecurity is undermining our national interest in other, less predictable ways by setting off political resistance to economic change, with negative repercussions that ripple beyond the economy. 
Forty years ago, free-trade agreements passed Congress with broad backing because legislators recognized that they helped American consumers and promoted global stability. But as job and wage insecurity have grown, public support for free trade has declined. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which passed by 34 votes in 1993, was a hard sale for the Clinton administration. But the recent Central American Free Trade Agreement, embracing a far smaller and less populous area, was an even harder sale for President Bush. Despite Republican control of Congress, the trade deal cleared the House in July by just two votes, and then only after heavy White House pressure. 
 The increasing insecurity of ordinary workers also imperils our national defense by handcuffing the Pentagon. It can't shift the defense budget to fighting terrorism because of local fears that well-paying jobs will be lost. Contrast this with the comparative ease by which the Pentagon downshifted from fighting World War II to the cold war, more than 50 years ago. Its recent base-closing recommendations ignited a political firestorm, causing even the apolitical Base Closure and Realignment Commission to retreat. The commission's chairman justified its decision to save the Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station, for example, by noting that the base ''is the second-largest employer in western New York.'' 
 Consider, finally, the pork that's been larded into the federal budget. Republicans may collectively oppose wasteful spending, but as individual legislators they've created more pork than any Congress in history. The new $286 billion transportation act is bloated with 6,371 ''special projects'' with a price tag some $30 billion more than the White House wanted. The president reassured the nation that it would, at the least, ''give hundreds of thousands of Americans good-paying jobs.'' The new $12.3 billion energy bill cost twice what the White House sought because it's laden with what Senator Pete Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who ushered it through Congress, defends as measures to create ''hundreds of thousands of jobs.'' According to the conservative watchdog group Citizens Against Government Waste, pork programs have risen from fewer than 2,000 a year in the mid-1990's to almost 14,000 this year.
 Don't blame the politicians, though. Whatever the policy at stake -- trade, defense, transportation, energy -- it's likely to morph into a jobs issue because that's what's most on people's minds. So politicians concerned about re-election will do what they can to protect jobs against free trade, base closings, or whatever else might threaten them; and to create jobs by getting as much pork as possible. 
 And don't blame corporate chief executives for causing the insecurity in the first place. Their predecessors reigned over a stable mass-production system where a few major companies in each industry grew through economies of scale and didn't have to compete very hard. Wage and benefit increases could be easily absorbed or passed on to their consumers, and jobs preserved. But today's profits depend on innovation and low costs. As a result, corporations are doing everything they can to cut hourly payrolls and benefits. 
 But if the insecurity keeps growing, and government keeps responding to it by trying to preserve jobs and spend pork, the economy will sink of its own dead weight. Future free-trade agreements will be impossible to pull off. The Pentagon and other agencies will be hamstrung. And our fiscal imbalances will swell to more grotesque levels. Yet what's the alternative? There's no returning to the stable jobs and steady wages of the mid-20th century. 
 The answer is a new compact that gives Americans enough security to accept economic change. Suppose, for example, lower and moderate-income workers got a larger share of today's productivity gains through a much bigger Earned Income Tax Credit starting at, say, $6,000 for those who earned the least and gradually tapering off well into the middle class. This would go a long way toward easing the pocketbook concerns of Americans who are working harder but getting nowhere. 
 To cushion the pain of job loss, unemployment insurance should be turned into re-employment insurance, helping people to get new jobs instead of keeping them waiting for old ones to return. Community colleges would do the retraining, in league with area businesses that identified skill shortages. Wage insurance would cover part of the difference between their old salary and their new starting wage. 
 The new compact would also decouple health and pension benefits from unemployment, further reducing the negative impact of job loss. Employer-provided health insurance would be replaced with no-frills universal health under an expanded Medicare program, which could use its huge bargaining leverage to extract lower costs from providers and drug companies. Lower-income workers would be encouraged to save for their retirement (over and above Social Security) by receiving several dollars from the government for every dollar they put away. 
 The price tag for the new compact won't be cheap. My back-of-the-envelope calculation is several hundred billion dollars a year. But given the high cost of our current doomed effort to turn back the global economic tides, it would more than pay for itself. By reducing the job insecurity felt by so many, a new compact would allow Americans to focus on embracing change instead of worrying about forever falling behind. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); HOME PRICES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COLD WAR (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); MEN (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); CLOSINGS (66%); MILITARY BASES (66%); WORLD WAR II (62%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



39 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE CONVENTION BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1904 words

HEADLINE: Closed to Visitors 

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN and CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The 1,200 members of the Association of Pet Dog Trainers were looking forward to their annual convention in New Orleans later this month, with its sessions on canine pack order, helping the shy dog and running a doggie day care center.
 After the serious business, they expected to relish the real fun: partaking all the delights New Orleans had to offer -- jazz, Cajun food, a tour of haunted houses, a bayou trip and a pub crawl.
That is not to be. With the devastation from Hurricane Katrina, association officials scrambled this week to find another city to act as host to at least 1,000 trainers and a fair number of dogs. Several hundred other groups are rushing to do the same, as it is quite clear that for at least the rest of the year and probably longer, New Orleans will be closed to tourists. 
 ''It's going to be a while before New Orleans is ready to host a meeting again,'' said Colin Rorrie, the president and chief executive for the Meeting Professionals International trade organization.
 Worrying about tourism and convention business amid the destruction in New Orleans and the surrounding gulf region is no misguided exercise. Tourism, as the city's main industry, is critical to its recovery.
 Last year, a record 10.1 million people visited New Orleans and spent $4.9 billion there. The tourist industry employed 81,000 people, almost 20 percent of the city's work force, said Stephen Perry, the president and chief executive of the convention and visitors bureau. 
 Taking refuge in a small town north of New Orleans before setting up offices in Baton Rouge this week, Mr. Perry said that the tourism industry contributed nearly $250 million to the city last year from sales taxes on visitors' expenditures. 
 Other cities in the region were just as dependent on tourism and hit just as hard. Mr. Rorrie estimated that at least $1 billion in meetings and convention business would be lost because of the storm. ''There's an overwhelming sense of, 'My God, this is a catastrophe beyond what anyone has experienced,''' he said.
 On its Web site, the New Orleans Convention and Visitors Bureau still beckons: ''Welcome to America's most romantic, walkable, historic city.'' But not for the rest of this year, bureau officials are now saying, and possibly into next year. They have already canceled the 40 convention and trade shows scheduled for September that would have brought in 200,000 visitors, each spending an average of about $500 at hotels, restaurants and shops. 
 Several hundred more conferences scheduled for the rest of the year will have to find other sites, too. They include numerous small military unit reunions, the Sweet Adelines International singing competition, a major Hewlett-Packard training event and a 20,000-member meeting of AARP. 
 A number of conference planners and tourism officials in cities across the United States are saying that New Orleans' tourism industry could be still out of business when Mardi Gras begins at the end of February. That at least many of the smaller conventions planned for New Orleans can be moved at short notice speaks to the continued weakness in the trade show and convention business, particularly in less-desirable convention cities that find a hard time competing against flashier places like Las Vegas, Atlanta and New York.
 Indeed, only hours after the traumatic video of people stranded on rooftops, organizations like the National Association of Convenience Stores or the National Hardwood Lumber Association were fielding calls from convention bureaus in Detroit, Hartford, Pittsburgh and Albany.
 ''We didn't realize we were that popular,'' says Ruth Cameron of the Sweet Adelines, an international organization of women's choruses who sing in four-part harmonies. ''Apparently there are slow times in other cities.''
 New Orleans is generally ranked as the fifth-largest convention city in the United States, after Las Vegas; Chicago; Orlando, Fla.; and New York. The riverside Ernest N. Morial Convention Center has 1.1 million square feet of exhibit space, the largest contiguous-space exhibit hall in the United States, with 12 exhibit halls and 140 separate meeting rooms, a 4,000-seat conference auditorium and 2 ballrooms. 
 The center, from what officials can see, sustained little damage from the high winds. But since then, it has been a refugee center and a rather desperate one at that. Reports from inside the center describe dead bodies and overflowing toilets. ''Right now, we are out of resources at the convention center,'' Mayor C. Ray Nagin told reporters Thursday. ''Currently, the convention center is unsanitary and unsafe, and we are running out of supplies for 15 to 20,000 people.''
 The trouble is magnified because many hotels and restaurants are in ruins. After the floodwaters are drained, airlines and the region's transportation system must be up and running before restoration can even begin. 
 For the rest of the gulf region, tourism may be smaller but it is no less a lifeblood. 
 The Mississippi Coast Coliseum and Convention Center in Biloxi, with 84,000 square feet of exhibition space, is a small site, ranked as the 204th-largest convention center by Tradeshow Week magazine. Nevertheless, said Stephen Richer, the executive director for the Mississippi Gulf Coast Convention and Visitors Bureau, which includes Biloxi and Gulfport, tourism is a $2-billion-a- year industry for his region. Meetings and conventions bring in at least $200 million of that.
 ''We're trying to assess the damage,'' Mr. Richer said. ''The basic fact is that all of the casinos have damage -- some of them very extensive. We've lost restaurants, museums, historic homes. The convention and visitors bureau office got washed away.''
 Among the conventions lost is the annual meeting of the Mississippi Municipal League. The group rebooked the meeting in Biloxi after another hurricane, Dennis, wiped out their conference in July.
 ''I can't tell you how many of our 18,000 rooms are open,'' Mr. Richer said. But there won't be any conventiongoers in any of the usable hotels, he said. ''They will be filled with emergency workers and homeless residents."
 The 1,740-room Beau Rivage hotel and casino in Biloxi, owned by MGM Mirage, was significantly damaged. ''We're not going to have anything there anytime soon,'' said Alan Feldman, senior vice president for public affairs at the company. The Beau Rivage accounted for about 4 percent of the company's net profits last year.
 The nation's tourism industry has reacted to the region's misfortunes in a sympathetic fashion. The Dallas Convention and Visitors Bureau earlier this week offered several incentives to companies and organizations whose meetings were displaced by the hurricane. Dallas is trying to accommodate about a dozen requests to reschedule conventions at the moment, which would represent 200,000 room nights and, conservatively, an economic transfer of about $400 million.
 About two dozen hotels offered discounts to groups that wanted to move their conventions to Dallas. For groups that regularly rotate their meetings among a roster of cities, including Dallas and New Orleans, the city has offered to swap convention dates so New Orleans is guaranteed business in a later year. American Airlines, with a major hub in Dallas, has agreed not to assess destination change fees for group business relocating there.
 ''It was the right thing to do,'' said Phillip Jones, president and chief executive of the Dallas Convention and Visitors Bureau, who also happens to have been Louisiana's secretary of tourism. ''Dallas has been able to step up and offer something to New Orleans during this crisis.''
 Jeff Sacks, a vice president for the conference planning company Conferon Global Services, has noticed the same approach in other cities as he negotiates to find new sites for groups like the Sweet Adelines.
 ''The cities are all being very, very fair,'' Mr. Sacks said. ''It's like the way the industry treated New York City after 9/11. They don't want to turn a tragedy into a financial windfall, but they know it is a blessing.'' 
 The dog trainers were able to book the Marriott hotel in San Jose, Calif., on the same dates they had planned for New Orleans. The hotel rooms will cost only $2 more than what they expected to pay in New Orleans. ''We are still in a state of amazement that we could pull this off,'' said Teoti Anderson, the group's president. (She is happy she signed an event-cancellation policy a few weeks ago that will cover much of the cost of the switch.) 
 They may not get as many members to attend in San Jose; after all, they lost the after-hour allure of New Orleans. ''We are looking for things to do in San Francisco,'' Ms. Anderson said.
 Some cities appeared to be poaching. ''There are cities that are trying to take advantage of what is certainly a horrible thing,'' Mr. Rorrie of the meeting planners trade group said. He thinks the Dallas offer to swap is a ''good way to go,'' because it will help New Orleans get back on its feet later on.
 Other cities say they are only responding to need. Danielle Courtenay, spokeswoman for the Orlando/Orange County Convention and Visitors Bureau, said that ''it was never our intention to go out and poach meeting business.'
 ''We just got on the phone and said, 'Listen, we have some open space.'''
 ''We've been there,'' she said. ''We know what it feels like to be hit by a hurricane.''
 The New Orleans convention employees, working out of offices in Washington, Chicago and Baton Rouge, are calling counterparts in other cities to give them business. While the New Orleans group has canceled all events in September, it will not make a decision about October events until next week. But most groups are already looking. 
 Convention planners say that it is difficult finding alternatives at this short notice. But there is room out there. Mr. Sacks, the meeting planner for the Sweet Adelines, said he talked to 25 to 30 cities and 8 of them said they had availability.
 Hewlett-Packard had planned an H.P. Technology Forum training conference for 4,000 people the week of Sept. 11. The company's new chief executive, Mark V. Hurd, was scheduled to make his first public appearance before customers. The company has spent 18 months planning the event and must now scramble to move it in a matter of days. 
 The most popular convention towns are solidly booked and meeting planners know that. But when asked, the big halls in Las Vegas, New York and Atlanta are looking for slots to fit in some conventions.
 ''The business will be spread out so it will not have a major impact in any one city,'' said Richard Heller, president of the Sands Expo and Convention Center in Las Vegas.
 No one is writing off New Orleans as a major convention city. ''I believe New Orleans convention business will rebound quickly,'' said Michael Hughes, director for research at Tradeshow Week.
 How fast the industry gets back on its feet, Mr. Perry of the New Orleans visitors bureau said, is critical to the city's recovery. ''From an economic point of view, the recovery of the tourism industry will be of significant help,'' he said. ''It will generate the revenue allowing the city to bounce back.'' 
 ''We are taking a page out of Mayor Giuliani's handbook,'' Mr. Perry said. ''We will be saying, 'Don't just send your dollars. Come to New Orleans. Don't stay away.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, the Institute of Food Technologists met in New Orleans in July. Above, the convention center in New Orleans served as a temporary shelter for flood victims this week. Groups who planned conferences there are scrambling to find other sites. (Photos by top, Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times
above, Marko Georgiev for the New York Times )(pg. C1)
Conference planners say that the tourism industry in New Orleans could still be out of business when Mardi Gras begins at the end of February. (Photo by Sean Gardner/Getty Images)
 The Beau Rivage hotel and casino in Biloxi, Miss., was damaged. Tourism is a $2-billion-a-year industry for the Mississippi Gulf Coast. (Photo by Bill Starling/Mobile Register, via Associated Press)(pg. C6)Chart: ''No Meetings for a While''With damage to the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center and to the city in general, New Orleans, the fifth-largest convention city in the nation, will be without much of that business for at least a few months.Leading Convention Host CitiesNUMBER OF MAJOR MEETINGS, 2004*Las Vegas: 38Chicago: 18Orlando, Fla.: 18New York: 14New Orleans: 12*Includes only shows listed in the Tradeshow Week 200Major conventions forced to cancel or relocate outside of New OrleansNAME: American Society for MicrobiologyPLANNED DATES: Sept. 19 - Sept. 23PLANNED ATTENDANCE: 16,000NAME: Specialty Graphic Imaging AssociationPLANNED DATES: Sept. 26 - Oct. 1PLANNED ATTENDANCE: 11,250NAME: AARPPLANNED DATES: Sept. 28 - Oct. 1PLANNED ATTENDANCE: 20,000NAME: Sweet Adelines InternationalPLANNED DATES: Oct. 4 - Oct. 8PLANNED ATTENDANCE: 10,000NAME: American Society of AnesthesiologistsPLANNED DATES: Oct. 22 - Oct. 26PLANNED ATTENDANCE: 16,000NAME: Natl. Association of Convenience StoresPLANNED DATES: Oct. 29 - Oct. 31PLANNED ATTENDANCE: 23,000(Source by Tradeshow Week, New Orleans Convention and Visitors Bureau)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); TOURISM (91%); PETS (90%); DOGS (90%); PET CARE SERVICES (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); WEATHER (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LODGING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); HURRICANES (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (73%); TRADE SHOWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); TRENDS (63%); WEB SITES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Travel and Vacations; Conventions and Conferences; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Industry Profiles; Sales Tax; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SWEET ADELINES INTERNATIONAL (59%); INSTITUTE OF FOOD TECHNOLOGISTS (59%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Damon Darlin; Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



40 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Irish Crystal About to Get A U.S. Touch

BYLINE: By BRIAN LAVERY

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
When the crystal and ceramics manufacturer Waterford Wedgwood bought All-Clad, a high-end American cookware company, in 1999, no one could have known that a future chief executive hid among all the pots and pans. 
 Peter Cameron, 58, stayed at the helm of All-Clad throughout the acquisition, for $110 million, and after he helped orchestrate its subsequent sale for $250 million last year, he stuck around as chief operating officer of the company.
When the chief executive of Waterford, Redmond O'Donoghue, announced his resignation last week after a four-year earnings slump, Mr. Cameron was in a crucial position to assume the top job. 
 But he is far from getting worked up about what has to be done. ''It really is a question of getting the costs in line, so that the margins associated with luxury goods products are available to us,'' he said. 
 Along with Guinness and U2, the 222-year-old company behind Waterford crystal and Wedgwood china is one of Ireland's best-known names. But since 2001 the company has failed to recover from an economic downturn and turbulent geopolitics, which eroded the consumer confidence necessary to sell luxury goods. It has also been hurt by the slump in the dollar, because its expenses are mostly in euros but half of its sales are in the United States. 
 ''We really haven't done much in terms of adding to the brand cachet,'' Mr. Cameron said from his office in Boston, his hometown and that of his alma mater, Northeastern University. ''And we haven't done much in terms of new product innovation and introduction.'' 
 With two sons in college, he plans to continue to work from Boston. Analysts say that will help him stay in touch with the American market. 
 In the year ended March 31, Waterford Wedgwood lost 149 million euros ($187 million), more than triple its loss in 2004. ''There's no evidence of sales recovering,'' said Stuart Draper, head of research at Dolmen Stockbrokers in Dublin. 
 But Mr. Cameron, who became chief executive Thursday, is optimistic that he can steer Waterford Wedgwood back to comfortable profitability soon. ''I would be disappointed if '07 isn't the year,'' he said. 
 For a man who describes his various positions in corporate America as ''assignments'' -- before All-Clad, he ran its rivals Farberware and Revere Ware -- getting to profitability is a nuts-and-bolts process, starting with the cost-cutting he began this year. The company is shedding 1,800 jobs, which even meant putting out the furnace at Dungarvan, one of its flagship factories in Ireland, three weeks ago. 
 ''He has been very much a manufacturer,'' said Brid White, an equity analyst at Merrion Capital in Dublin. ''And I don't think that's a bad thing for Waterford Wedgwood at this juncture.'' 
 On the surface, Mr. Cameron has a practical and conservative demeanor. His presence at meetings is noted more for his height -- 6-foot-5 -- and his customary V-neck sweater, even under business suits, than for his vocal contributions. (He called it a ''tragedy'' to be photographed on one of the few days that he came to work without a V-neck. ''My friends joke that that's when they can tell summer's officially arrived,'' he said.) 
 It may not be a common touch, but Mr. Cameron has a knack for knowing what people want before they do. A sense of the market is one strength, according to Ms. White, the analyst. ''They need an operations person who's able to listen to the marketing people,'' she said. ''He's very good at watching trends.'' 
 Mr. Cameron says that he wants Waterford Wedgwood to escape its cycle of cutting production and inventory levels to match falling sales, which leaves it relying on 10-year-old designer lines instead of innovations. He said he hoped to gain younger consumers with staples that critics say the company should be making already, like affordable wine glasses. 
 ''We know who they are and where they're shopping,'' he said, in a broad Boston accent. ''They've gotten far more oriented towards what I'd describe as luxury-casual entertaining. People are entertaining in kitchens now.'' 
 He speaks with a passion for how consumer products affect people's daily lives, a connection that he says began in the early 1980's when he worked on the origins of digital photography at Polaroid. 
 He takes pride in having brought populism to the cookware business by enlisting the first celebrity chef Emeril Lagasse to lend his name to an entire All-Clad range. 
 ''Chefs had not historically had much luck with their transition into products or product endorsements, and Emeril really changed all that,'' Mr. Cameron said. ''It was successful because of his unique personality, but we figured that out before others.'' 
 Such a close affiliation with the mechanics of cooking, however, does not necessarily rub off. ''I actually am not a particularly good cook,'' Mr. Cameron said. ''But I'm a great diner.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''People are entertaining in kitchens now,'' said Peter Cameron, who sees a place for Waterford Wedgwood in the ''luxury-casual'' market. (Photo by Michael Falco/International Herald Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METAL COOKWARE & UTENSIL MFG (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); SECURITIES BROKERS (60%) Consumer Behavior; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: WWRD HOLDINGS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Waterford Wedgwood Plc

INDUSTRY: NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3262 VITREOUS CHINA TABLE & KITCHEN ARTICLES (58%)

PERSON: Peter Cameron; Brian Lavery

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



41 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Indictments and Statistics All Overwhelmed by Tragedy Down South 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
WITH each passing day -- sometimes, it seemed, each hour -- the news grew worse. After Hurricane Katrina missed a head-on collision with New Orleans, there was hope that the storm's 175 m.p.h. winds might not have had a chance to do as much damage as feared. But then came reports of breached levees, beached oil rigs, widespread flooding -- and, perversely, fires. Estimated death tolls rose from dozens to hundreds; Mayor Ray Nagin said perhaps 1,000 people or more had perished in New Orleans alone, even before the looting and gunplay erupted. 
The agony in Louisiana and Mississippi all but overwhelmed news of a new round of business-related criminal indictments and statistics showing that even as the economy rebounded from the last recession, poverty has grown and family incomes, for the first time on record, fell for five consecutive years.

KATRINA'S FURY -- Natural disasters have struck before, of course, and many have been both deadly and devastating. But none may measure up to the effect of Hurricane Katrina, which tore up the Louisiana delta and southern Mississippi. Beyond the human toll, which is still being tallied and may be considerable, the hurricane did extensive damage to the nation's oil and gas resources, and it may take weeks or months to repair it all.
 The storm idled offshore drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, which accounts for more than one-fifth of the nation's oil production, and disabled eight major refineries, which by themselves account for 10 percent of the country's total refining capacity. Crude oil prices spiked above $70 a barrel -- nominally a record, but still below the inflation-adjusted peak of $86 a barrel in March 1981 -- but the pinch came first in the market for fuels.
 Gasoline jumped to $2.68 a gallon on average nationwide, the highest price ever without adjusting for inflation, according to AAA. In many cities, regular gasoline was sold for more than $3.30 a gallon; where spot shortages developed, including North Carolina and Georgia, prices shot up to as high as $5.87 a gallon for regular. Jet fuel prices also soared, but spot shortages cropped up nonetheless; about half of the jet fuel sold in the United States is refined along the Gulf Coast.
 Shipping was also hit particularly hard, which is bad news for farmers and others who use the Mississippi River to take products to market. Exports that usually move in bulk through the stricken area's ports, roads and rail lines are likely to face disruptions for weeks, if not longer.
 The storm also left 18 percent of the residents of Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi and some small regions of Florida without power, according to the Department of Energy.
 Estimates of privately insured losses -- which is guesswork at this point, with much of New Orleans still under as much as 20 feet of water -- range from $15 billion to $25 billion and could surpass the inflation-adjusted total of $22 billion incurred by Hurricane Andrew in 1992. Damage from flooding, which private insurers do not cover, could double the figure. One disaster-management firm estimated total losses could exceed $100 billion.

GIMME SHELTERS -- KPMG, the accounting firm, agreed to pay $456 million to avoid being indicted for creating and selling tax shelters that it acknowledges were illegal, but eight of its former partners were not so lucky. They were indicted, along with a lawyer who did not work for the firm, for conspiring to defraud the government by promoting the shelters and then trying to hide them from the Internal Revenue Service.
 A criminal indictment would have been a near-certain death knell for KPMG. A single criminal count, of obstruction of justice, was enough to kill another major accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, in 2002. That charge was later overturned by the United States Supreme Court, but too late to save Andersen.
 In addition to agreeing to pay the penalty, which works out to about $300,000 for each of the firm's 1,500 partners, KPMG accepted a deferred-prosecution agreement under which it will engage an outside monitor and limit its tax practice until Dec. 31, 2006.

PAY FALLS, POVERTY RISES -- Household incomes have failed to increase for five consecutive years -- the first time that has happened since the Census Bureau started keeping records -- and the number of people living in poverty increased last year.
 The bureau's annual report on the nation's economic well-being showed that a four-year economic expansion had not prevented the median pretax household income from declining to $44,389 last year. That is its lowest point since 1997, after adjusting for inflation. 
 At the same time, the poverty rate for working-age people, those ages 18 to 64, rose last year. The portion of people age 65 and older in poverty fell, while child poverty was essentially flat. Over all, the poverty rate increased to 12.7 percent, from 12.5 percent in 2003.
 Consumer confidence jumped last month, regardless of the bureau's findings. The next report on consumer confidence, which will reflect the effects of Hurricane Katrina, is due Sept. 27.

WHISTLE-BLOWER DEMOTED -- Bunnatine H. Greenhouse, a civilian in the Army's procurement bureaucracy, had publicly opposed awarding long-term multibillion-dollar contracts to the Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg Brown & Root without competitive bidding in 2003. Last June, she told a Congressional panel that one of the awards was ''the most blatant and improper contract abuse I have witnessed during the course of my professional career.''
 The Army demoted her last week, an action that her lawyer, Michael Kohn, described as an ''obvious reprisal'' for challenging the Halliburton contracts; Dick Cheney was the company's chief executive before he became vice president. The Army said Ms. Greenhouse's demotion was based on her performance and was not in retaliation for any disclosures of possible improprieties.
 Mr. Kohn said the Army's inspector general was investigating the matter.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sven Erik Holmes, center, KPMG's vice chairman for legal affairs, leaves Federal District Court in Manhattan. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (96%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); WEATHER (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); JET FUEL (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RIVERS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); STATISTICS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); CENSUS (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (71%); FUEL MARKETS (70%); MARINE SHIPPING (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (63%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); TAX AUTHORITIES (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Jet Fuel; Tax Shelters; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Income; Taxation; Whistle-Blowers ; United States Armament and Defense; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Refineries; Ships and Shipping; Electric Light and Power; Ports; International Trade and World Market; Suits and Litigation; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Internal Revenue Service; Census Bureau; Halliburton Co; Kpmg; Kellogg Brown & Root; Energy Department

PERSON: Bunnatine H Greenhouse; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Gulf of Mexico; Alabama; Louisiana; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



42 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-9

 Iran's Nuclear Plan Remains Puzzle, U.N. Says
Despite an intense, two-and-a-half year investigation, critical elements of Iran's nuclear program remain shrouded in mystery, according to a new report by the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations' nuclear watchdog agency. A3

China Prodded on Civil Rights
China must tie its economic growth to faster improvements in the legal and political rights of its citizens, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights said. A3

Israel Freezes Housing Plan
Israel has bowed to the United States and frozen a much-criticized plan to add 3,500 housing units near a large West Bank settlement, according to Ehud Olmert, Israel's deputy prime minister and a close ally of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. A4

Muslim Leaders React to Video
British Muslim leaders distanced themselves from a videotape claiming to show one of the London bombers pledging allegiance to Osama bin Laden before he killed six other people aboard a subway train on July 7. The tape raised concern among some European counterterrorism experts that it might contain coded messages exhorting terror cells in Europe to strike. A6
2 Sunni Mosques Attacked
Gunmen opened fire on worshipers at two Sunni mosques in southern Iraq, killing one and wounding four, as imams across the country devoted their weekly sermons to the nearly 1,000 victims of Wednesday's deadly stampede in Baghdad. A8

Saboteurs shut down Iraqi crude oil exports to Turkey for virtually all of the past year, but the oil is flowing again after Iraq's government put in place elaborate new security measures and decided to move its product in a clandestine operation. A8

NATIONAL A11-19; 22

 In New Orleans, Aid ArrivesAnd Evacuation Continues
Military vehicles bearing food and supplies sloshed into the drenched heart of New Orleans, while commercial and cargo planes arrived to lift beleaguered hurricane survivors from the depths of horror. A1

Members of Congress from both parties acknowledged that the federal response to Hurricane Katrina had fallen far short and promised hearings into what had gone wrong. A14

President Bush, facing searing criticism over the federal government's response to Hurricane Katrina, toured New Orleans and the Gulf Coast in his first on-the-ground look at the desperation that has gripped the region for the last four days. A1

Education Secretary Margaret Spellings telephoned the Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama state school superintendents and other top Gulf Coast educators, offering broad federal assistance to stricken schools and universities. A19

A Conviction in Maryland Arson
A federal jury convicted a 21-year-old man Friday of being the ringleader behind fires that caused $10 million in damage, to a new subdivision in southern Maryland, the costliest residential arson in state history. A11

New Group Presses Wal-Mart
Having failed to unionize any Wal-Marts, American labor unions have helped form a new and unusual type of workers' association to press Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to improve its wages and working conditions. A11

Muslims Meet With Bush Aide
American Muslims met with Under Secretary of State Karen P. Hughes at an Islamic convention to offer advice as she began an initiative to improve the flagging image of the United States among Muslims overseas. A11

Beliefs A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Judge's Ruling Ends Rowland Ethics Probe
A Connecticut judge rejected the chief state's attorney's request to issue an arrest warrant for former Gov. John G. Rowland, left, ending what would have been the state's first criminal prosecution for a violation of its ethics code. B1

Storm Affects Mayoral Race
With just 10 days before the Democratic primary, coverage of the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina is overwhelming newspapers and the local television and radio newscasts, robbing mayoral candidates of precious air time and column inches that their campaigns had been counting on to make their cases. B1

Clintons Campaign Together
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton brought her husband along to the New York State Fair in Syracuse, drawing a sharp contrast with her likely Republican rival in next year's Senate race, Jeanine F. Pirro, who has mostly kept her scandal-plagued husband out of public view since announcing her candidacy. B4

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

ARTS B7-15

OBITUARIES B16

Nell I. Mondy
A Cornell biochemist who extolled the nutritional benefits of the potato to consumers worldwide and pushed hard to dispel its reputation as a weighty clump of empty calories, he was 83. B16

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Sporadic Gas Shortages
Less than a week after Hurricane Katrina severely disrupted energy supplies, spot gasoline shortages were reported at service stations nationally. A1

A catastrophe modeling firm offered the first estimate of economic losses from Hurricane Katrina, it is $100 billion. C1

With New Orleans closed to tourists for at least the rest of this year, according to the city's Convention and Visitors Bureau, several hundred groups are scrambling to find other cities for their conventions. C1

Job Growth Remains Strong
The nation's pace of job creation remained strong in the weeks before Hurricane Katrina, as the unemployment rate edged down to 4.9 percent in August, the government reported. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Katrina's assault on Washington; a Democratic candidate for mayor; the bra wars.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B8
TV Listings B15
Crossword B12
Weather C14



GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); ARSON (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (86%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); RELIGION (73%); TERRORISM (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (70%); SHOOTINGS (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); VERDICTS (65%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (63%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (60%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (57%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



43 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE OIL SUPPLY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Spot Shortages Of Gas Reported Around Country

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and ANTHONY RAMIREZ; Reporting for this article was contributed by Nate Schweber, in Fort Lee, N.J.; Michael Schmidt, in New York; Brenda Goodman, in Atlanta; and Jeff Bailey, in Chicago.

 BODY:
Less than a week after Hurricane Katrina severely disrupted energy supplies, spot gasoline shortages were reported yesterday at service stations in New York City and across the country heading into the three-day Labor Day weekend. 
 If consumers do not heed warnings to refrain from panicked buying, industry officials and analysts said, the situation could worsen.
 AAA said it had received many sporadic reports of service stations running out of gasoline, but noted that even in cities where dozens of stations were said to be out, hundreds of other outlets still had ample supplies.
A day after gas prices in New York and much of the country passed $3 a gallon, there were increasing reports of pumps running dry, though officials in New York City said there was no gasoline emergency. Nonetheless, in Albany, the State Senate called a special session for Sept. 20 to seek solutions to high gas prices. And a committee of the New York City Council vowed to crack down on price gouging. 
 At a Mobil station in Fort Lee, N.J., the manager, Mohammed Idrees, said he had run out of gas every day from Tuesday to Thursday. Mr. Idrees's supplier, who calls to tell him when his daily tanker will arrive, has not called. Mr. Idrees was down to his last 1,500 gallons late yesterday afternoon. ''The supplier doesn't have an answer for us as to when he's going to bring more,'' he said.
 Last night, several service stations along Route 17 in New Jersey had no gas and turned away motorists.
 The shortages are particularly worrisome because they come at the beginning of a long weekend when many families take their last road trips before the end of the summer travel season.
 Industry officials said that while they were trying to ensure that ample supplies would be available through the holiday and beyond, consumers would probably determine if they and their neighbors could get home on Monday without too many headaches.
 ''The real downside of this hysteria is that people hear rumors about outages in other towns and rush out to gas up, thereby increasing the likelihood of gas lines and outages in their own town,'' said Justin McNaull, a spokesman for AAA in Washington. 
 Broadly speaking, the United States should have plenty of gasoline inventories to meet demand. At the end of last week, the country had about 194 million barrels of gasoline, and on an average day, Americans consume about 9.3 million barrels. ''The key thing that I can't answer is will consumers act appropriately,'' said John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute, a trade group. ''If they decide to rush the system, it can't handle it even in the best of times.''
 The oil industry and government, meanwhile, reported progress yesterday in easing supply shortages and resuming a semblance of normal operations at pipelines, refineries and a critical oil import terminal. The International Energy Agency said its members would release two million barrels of emergency oil and gasoline to the United States a day for the next 30 days.
 The United States energy secretary, Samuel W. Bodman, said the federal government would release 30 million barrels of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve as part of the initiative.
 Gasoline futures prices -- the rough equivalent of wholesale prices -- fell for the first time this week, signaling that traders and analysts believed that the government and industry were addressing supply constraints.
 Supplies were tightest in the South, especially in the states that took a direct hit from the hurricane. AAA said yesterday afternoon that many stations in the Florida Panhandle cities of Pensacola and Panama City were out of gasoline. The Hancock County School District in Sparta, Ga., about 100 miles east of Atlanta, cancelled classes on Thursday because it could not buy enough gas for its school buses.
 C.H. Robinson Worldwide Inc., a logistics company that oversees 11,000 to 12,000 truckloads of freight daily, said some trucking companies were reluctant to send drivers into the area hit by Hurricane Katrina because of the diesel fuel shortage.
 ''We're happy when anyone will take a load south,'' said Chris O'Brien, vice president for transportation at C.H. Robinson, which is based in Eden Prairie, Minn. ''We can't guarantee there will even be fuel.''
 The hurricane knocked out oil production in the gulf, shut down a major import terminal and hampered operations at nine refineries. Power failures severely reduced the capacity of two main pipelines that feed finished gasoline and other fuels to the eastern half of the country.
 ''From the start of the supply chain to the end of the chain, everything stopped,'' said Benjamin Brockwell, director of pricing for the Oil Price Information Service, which compiles a widely followed survey of gas prices. ''So that means that product that was already in the distribution system was sucked dry.''
 Yesterday, the government and industry reported progress in restoring at least pieces of that system.
 The Colonial Pipeline Company, which typically transports about 2.4 million barrels of fuel daily, said it was operating at 70 percent capacity yesterday evening and would be at 86 percent by late this weekend. Kinder Morgan, the Houston-based operator of the Plantation pipeline, said it was approaching 95 percent of its daily average volume of about 640,000 barrels. Both pipelines struggled to restart after they lost power to fuel pumps in Louisiana and Mississippi.
 Also, the Energy Department said Entergy, the electric utility, had restored power to all but three refineries in the New Orleans area and refiners were restarting and increasing production. All told, eight refineries in the region remain shut and may stay that way for a few days or weeks while companies deal with flooding and power disruptions.
 On Thursday evening, the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port, an import terminal in the gulf where tankers deposit crude oil shipments, accepted its first shipment since Saturday, the company that runs it said. The Coast Guard said four other ships were waiting to deposit oil at the terminal.
 The Energy Department is also making more than 12 million barrels of crude oil available to domestic refiners. And the Environmental Protection Agency has waived clean-air rules nationally to allow for the use of a greater variety of fuel. Yesterday, it also issued a special exemption for fuel used in Atlanta.
 Mr. Brockwell said it was impossible to say how many gas stations would run out. But at least 30 percent of stations east of the Rockies may start running on empty, he said.
 Stations that are pumped dry over the weekend could have to wait days before getting another shipment. ''If you had unusually high demand and your supplies were diminished two days earlier than usual, then they won't rush you a new supply,'' said Richard Cobb, executive director of the Georgia Petroleum Council. 
 Watching all of this at a distance, policy makers in Albany and New York City proposed measures to ease the pain at the pump. Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the State Senate, has proposed capping state sales taxes at $2 a gallon, saving the motorist 8 to 10 cents a gallon, according to his estimate. The State Assembly, which has a majority of Democrats, however, has no plans for a special session, but will instead hold hearings.
 Dina Improta, a spokeswoman for the city Department of Consumer Affairs, which inspects the city's 14,000 pumps at 1,200 gasoline stations, said there was no ''vast emergency.''
 ''If there was a vast emergency in the city where there was no gas,'' Ms. Improta said, ''our officials would be aware of it, and I have not heard anything about that.''
 In Brooklyn, at least one station, an Amoco on 4th Avenue, ran out of gas at 3:30 p.m., and livery-cab drivers had come up with their own ways to conserve fuel. Many were lined up at a nearby subway station. ''Three days ago I stopped driving around looking for customers,'' said Moin Mohammed, 37, of Queens.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A BP station in Port Washington, N.Y., ran out of gas yesterday, and the manager, Ike Iqbal, was by the pumps to give customers the bad news. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); CITIES (78%); WEATHER (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INVENTORIES (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shortages; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Labor Day; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Strategic Petroleum Reserve

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%) International Energy Agency

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; Anthony Ramirez; Samuel W (Sec) Bodman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



44 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE DAMAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: First Estimate Puts Storm's Economic Toll at $100 Billion

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
A risk management firm yesterday offered the first estimate of economic losses from Hurricane Katrina -- $100 billion -- and said that private insurance would probably cover less than a quarter of that. Federal money and charitable contributions may need to do the rest. 
 Saying the damage already appeared far greater than expected, Risk Management Solutions in Newark, Calif., said that insured losses would range from $20 billion to $35 billion, much higher than the firm's initial estimate of $10 billion to $25 billion.
The new figures suggest that Hurricane Katrina will cost the insurance industry more than any other natural disaster on record, unseating Hurricane Andrew in 1992, which cost $21 billion in 2004 dollars, according to the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group. Katrina's price tag may also overshadow the $23 billion in insured losses caused by four large hurricanes last year in South Florida. 
 But there is far more that commercial insurers will not absorb. 
 Uninsured losses often include damage to roads, highways, utilities and public buildings, as well as the cost of government relief efforts. There is also the huge cost of not doing business, which the firm estimated at $100 million a day.
 Not only will the total losses reach $100 billion, but they may keep climbing if efforts to repair the levees in New Orleans stall, said Kyle Beatty, a Risk Management Solutions meteorologist. 
 While the insurance industry's share of that $100 billion will still be high, ''there's far more economic dislocation relative to the insurance dollars coming in,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, chief economist of the Insurance Investment Institute. Mr. Hartwig said that insurance dollars were often the most potent, since they came in the form of cash rather than low-interest loans. ''It means that for New Orleans to get back to where it was the day before Katrina will take longer.'' 
 And he said that policyholders should not expect insurers to try to cover flood damage out of generosity.
 ''Insurers will pay every dollar that they promised to pay under the terms of their contact, but flood is very clearly excluded from policies, and it always has been,'' he said
 To be sure, insurance companies could face still more liability, Mr. Beatty said, especially where looting and vandalism are at play.
 But there will remain a large gap between insured losses and economic losses, suggesting that government and private donations will be hugely important to the region's recovery.
 How the country will close the gap is unclear. Congress approved a $10.5 billion emergency aid package yesterday. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which finances flood insurance for homeowners, is still repaying the Treasury for the $300 million it borrowed after last year's hurricane season. 
 ''If the flood insurance fund runs dry, we can tap the Treasury,'' said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for FEMA. ''Chances are good we'll have to do that for this storm because of the catastrophic nature of it.''
 ''Residents should not be worried that the flood insurance program is insolvent,'' Mr. Kinerney added. ''Be assured, we're not going belly-up, and we're not going away.'' 
 The many homeowners who lack flood insurance -- including 6 of 10 homeowners in New Orleans, according to federal data -- will most likely be applying for aid. 
 And even getting people their money may prove more challenging than in past catastrophes. 
 ''I think what makes this one different is just the sheer scope and size of it,'' said Ray Stone, vice president for catastrophe operations at St. Paul Travelers, which has one of the largest shares of customers in Louisiana. ''It's just going to be a much, much longer haul.''
 Risk Management Solutions estimated that the flood in New Orleans had inundated 150,000 properties, making it the most damaging flood in the nation's history. The most recent flood of similar proportions, the firm said, was a 1953 flood in the Netherlands. It, too, was caused by a major storm surge that overwhelmed barriers protecting a city below sea level. That flood submerged 47,000 properties and killed 1,800 people. It took six months to pump the community dry.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Gregory yesterday in what had been his house in Gulfport, Miss. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Costly Catastrophes''Hurricanes, with their destructive power and frequency, account for many of the disasters that have been the most expensive for property and casualty insurers.DATE: Aug. 1992EVENT: Hurricane AndrewINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: $20.87DATE: Sept. 2001EVENT: World Trade Center and Pentagon terrorist attacks*INSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 20.05DATE: Jan. 1994EVENT: Northridge, Calif., earthquakeINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 15.93DATE: Aug. 2004EVENT: Hurricane CharleyINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 7.48DATE: Sept. 2004EVENT: Hurricane IvanINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 7.11DATE: Sept. 1989EVENT: Hurricane HugoINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 6.39DATE: Sept. 2004EVENT: Hurricane FrancesINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 4.60DATE: Sept. 2004EVENT: Hurricane JeanneINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 3.66DATE: Sept. 1998EVENT: Hurricane GeorgesINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 3.36DATE: June 2001EVENT: Tropical Storm AllisonINSURANCE PAYOUTS, IN BILLIONS OF 2004 DOLLARS: 3.10*Property coverage only.(Source by ISO
 Insurance Information Institute)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); HURRICANES (92%); RISK MANAGEMENT (91%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); METEOROLOGY (73%); VANDALISM (72%); APPROVALS (71%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Philanthropy; Katrina (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (83%) Risk Management Solutions

PERSON: Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



45 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE ECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Stepped Up Its Pace In August 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The nation's pace of job creation remained strong in the weeks before Hurricane Katrina, as the unemployment rate edged down to its lowest level in four years, the government reported on Friday.
 But the healthy data on job creation predated the hurricane, and there is a likelihood of at least a temporary slowdown caused by high fuel prices and damage to oil refineries, factories and transportation networks.
 The Labor Department estimated Friday that the United States added 169,000 jobs in August and that job growth in June and July was stronger than previously thought.
 The unemployment rate declined to 4.9 percent in August from 5 percent in July, the lowest rate since August 2001. 
 The growth in jobs in August was less than Wall Street forecasters had expected, but the Labor Department also calculated that the nation generated 44,000 more jobs in June and July than it had estimated.
 Taken together, the new data showed that companies expanded their work forces an average of 195,000 jobs a month over the last three months -- a pace that suggested that the economy was not slowed much by the sharp increase in gasoline prices earlier this summer.
 That would have been encouraging news to many forecasters, but it was overwhelmed by a growing expectation that Hurricane Katrina is likely to cause substantially slower growth for at least the next several months.
 ''This disaster is unleashing the type of energy supply shock that we had viewed as the economy's greatest vulnerability,'' wrote William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, in a research note on Friday.
 David Rosenberg, a senior economist at Merrill Lynch, noted that gasoline prices, adjusted for inflation, have for the first time surpassed the records set in the early 1980's and that the disruptions from the hurricane will affect the entire economy in the months ahead.
 ''It really transcends oil prices,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. ''It has to do with refining capacity and with the freight distribution network.''
 Natural disasters like hurricanes and earthquakes usually cause a short-term dip in economic activity and a short-term rise in unemployment as a result of disruptions in the regions where they occur. But that dip is often followed by faster growth as insurance companies and the federal government provide tens of billions of dollars for reconstruction.
 The big question now is whether prices of gasoline and heating oil will remain so high for the rest of the year that consumers will be forced to cut spending and perhaps suffer a decline in confidence that causes a broader slowdown.
 The jobs data on Friday suggested that employers and consumers remained largely undaunted this summer, even though gasoline prices shot up well before the hurricane hit the Gulf Coast on Monday morning.
 Job growth was strong across a wide swath of the economy, particularly in the leisure and hospitality industries to health care, construction and business services.
 Manufacturing employment remained the most notable exception, declining by 14,000 jobs in August -- the third consecutive monthly drop for factory jobs. In the last year, manufacturers have shed 110,000 jobs.
 Despite the low unemployment rate, workers once again appeared to have only limited power to bargain for higher wages. Average weekly earnings for nonfarm production workers climbed only one-tenth of 1 percent in August and were up 2.7 percent compared with a year earlier.
 Put another way, wages did not keep up with the overall pace of inflation. Though consumers have continued to spend more, they have done so by reducing their savings rate below zero.
 Earlier this week, the Commerce Department reported that the household savings rate in July turned negative -- to minus 0.6 percent -- for only the second time since it began collecting those statistics in 1959.
 Though weak wage growth poses problems for workers, it has also damped fears of faster inflation. 
 Despite the low unemployment rate, workers may have relatively little bargaining power for at least a few more months. The reason is that there is still a potentially large number of people who dropped out of the labor force and may now jump back in.
 The Labor Department said the labor force participation rate -- the percentage of adults who consider themselves in the labor force -- remains low but has been edging up.
 The government estimated that 62.6 percent of adults were in the labor force last month, meaning that they either had jobs or were actively looking for them. That share has been inching up since January, but it remains well below the level reached in 2000.
 According to minutes from the Federal Reserve's policy meeting on Aug. 9, Fed economists predicted that the ''output gap'' -- the unused factory capacity and supply of labor -- would disappear by the end of this year.
 But that prediction was made before Hurricane Katrina. Many economists are now betting that economic growth will slow for the remainder of this year before bouncing back in 2006. 
 The outcome will largely depend on whether energy prices remain high and how consumers react to them.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in August''Unemployment rateGraph tracks unemployment rate since September 2004.Unemployment rate: 4.9 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteAUG.: 4.2%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1BlackAUG.: 9.61-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.9Hispanic*AUG.: 5.81-MONTH CHANGE: +0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -1.1AsianAUG.: 3.6+1-MONTH CHANGE: -1.61-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.Teenagers (16-19)AUG.: 16.51-MONTH CHANGE: +0.41-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENTIn weeksAverageAUG.: 18.91-MONTH CHANGE: +7.4%1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.6%MedianAUG.: 9.41-MONTH CHANGE: +4.41-YEAR CHANGE: -1.1EmploymentGraph tracks 12-month change in Nonfarm payroll since September 2004.AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersAUG.: $544.591-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: % +2.7SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedAUG.: 66.2%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2Labor force (workers and unemployed)AUG.: 62.91-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.5'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENTIn millionsWorking part time, but want full-time workAUG.: 4.51-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.8%Persons who currently want a job<7>AUG.: 5.0+1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.2UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolAUG.: 7.6%1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.6High schoolAUG.: 4.71-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Some collegeAUG.: 3.61-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5Bachelor's or higherAUG.: 2.11-MONTH CHANGE: -0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -0.6BY TYPE OF WORKIn millionsNonfarmAUG.: 134.01-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.7%GoodsAUG.: 22.11-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.9ServicesAUG.: 111.91-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +2.0AgricultureAUG.: 2.21-MONTH CHANGE: -6.71-YEAR CHANGE: -5.5Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.<7>People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (87%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WEATHER (78%); HEATING OIL (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); HEATING OIL PRICES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); INSURANCE (69%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



46 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Bookstore Writes 'The End' To an Era

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif., Sept. 2 

 BODY:
After 50 years, Kepler's Bookstore closed its doors permanently on Wednesday, and loyal customers now come in groups of two and three to scrawl their farewells on big pieces of paper taped over its shuttered doors and windows.
 For five decades, Kepler's, which began as a paperback shop on El Camino Real, the road that runs through the heart of Silicon Valley, has served as not only a bookshop but also a hub for a vibrant counterculture that peaked in the 1960's and 70's.
In ''Searching for the Sound: My Life With the Grateful Dead'' (Little, Brown, 2005), the bass guitarist Phil Lesh writes about how the original bookstore, which in the early 60's also had a small seating area for selling coffee and baklava, was a meeting place and rehearsal hall for the musicians before they became a band.
 Kepler's, which moved several times before 1989, was at the heart of the bohemian community that thrived around Stanford in the 60's: Stewart Brand opened the Whole Earth Truck Store several blocks to the north, from which he published the influential Whole Earth Catalog; the Midpeninsula Free University, a center of the counterculture, had a storefront nearby; and the People's Computer Company, a gathering place for the hobbyists who helped create the personal computer industry in the mid-70's, was also just blocks away. 
 Opened in May 1955 by Roy Kepler, a pacifist, the bookstore, just a short bike ride from the Stanford University campus, was abruptly closed on Wednesday by Mr. Kepler's son, Clark.
 The business had been unable to rebound from Silicon Valley's dot-com bust, he told the employees during a brief meeting before shutting the doors. 
 In a note posted on the front door of the store, Mr. Kepler, who took over the business after his father died in 1994, wrote: ''The decision to close our doors has been one of the most difficult in my life. As much as we love what we do and would like to continue another 50 years, we simply cannot. The economic downturn since 2001 has proven to be more than we can rebound from.''
 The irony of Kepler's demise amid the wealth and splendor of Silicon Valley was not lost among a number of those who have worked at the store in the past. They placed the blame not just on the giant book chains that have been steadily displacing the nation's independent bookstores, but also on the rise of Amazon, the giant online bookseller.
 ''They have been hurt more than anyone by the Internet,'' said Neal Sofman, who owns the San Francisco bookstore A Clean Well-Lighted Place for Books. ''There is no one on the Peninsula who isn't computer literate.''
 Mr. Sofman, who opened his own first store in Cupertino, Calif., while he was working at Kepler's, said his experience was typical of Roy Kepler's style, which did so much to foster the alternative community on the Peninsula.
 ''It was a place where you went to exchange ideas,'' he said.
 A number of other Kepler's employees started bookstores in the San Francisco Bay Area, including Fred Cody, who founded Cody's, a popular independent bookseller in Berkeley.
 The store had a tremendous influence on many of its customers, who would go there for hard-to-find magazines and books.
 ''I was a glassy-eyed undergraduate,'' said Stewart Brand, who began frequenting the bookstore while studying biology at Stanford. ''It was a pillar of local civilization.''
 Kepler's best sellers often were not on any other lists, said Craig McCroskey, a publisher's representative and another former Kepler's employee, who met his wife while working at the store.
 ''We would sell everything from bodice-rippers to books like 'The Existential Pleasures of Engineering,' which were purchased by people wearing pocket protectors,'' he said.
 Even in the 80's and 90's, when the store became less of a counterculture fixture and more of a mainstream business, it retained its function as the village well, where neighbors came to gossip and chat.
 Kepler's was long distinguished by its unusually knowledgeable employees, who could give customers detailed literary advice. Ira Sandperl, a Gandhian scholar who would become the folk singer Joan Baez's mentor in the late 50's, was a fixture behind the cash register until he retired in 1988.
 ''People would confuse me with Roy,'' Mr. Sandperl said on Friday while eating breakfast next door to the shuttered bookstore. ''But I would be holding forth at the counter while Roy would be sweeping up or cleaning the toilet in the back.''
 Mr. Sandperl recalled being driven to distraction by the Grateful Dead guitarist Jerry Garcia and his friends, who would practice the same song endlessly many nights at the bookstore. He recalled phoning Mr. Kepler to ask if he could throw them out of the store because he disliked their music so much, but he was told they were harmless.
 Mr. Kepler, who remained a peace activist throughout his life, had gone to prison as a conscientious objector during World War II. He would later become executive director of the War Resisters League and in the 60's helped Mr. Sandperl and Ms. Baez create the Institute for the Study of Non-Violence. Mr. Sandperl said he had been jailed for civil disobedience with Mr. Kepler a number of times during the Vietnam War.
 In the 60's the store became a target and its windows were broken numerous times, once by a bomb. The police ultimately found that the attackers had been members of a local Bible study group who were angry at the ideas Mr. Kepler supported.
 The community does not seem to be ready to let go of its bookstore. A movement to resurrect Kepler's has already emerged, complete with a Web site (www.savekeplers.com). 
 The reaction of Steven Fields, a longtime customer, was typical on Wednesday. After having lunch at Cafe Borrone next door, he told his 11-year-old daughter, Hanna, that Kepler's was closed. She immediately burst into tears.
 ''What am I going to do?'' she said. ''Where am I going to go? It was the best place.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Saturday about the closing of Kepler's, a bookstore in Menlo Park, Calif., that became a hub for the counterculture in the 1960's and 70's, misstated its association with Fred Cody, who ran another bookstore in the San Francisco area. While Mr. Cody was a friend of Roy Kepler, the founder of Kepler's, he did not work at the store. The article also misstated the background of Cody's Books, in Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Cody founded it with his wife, Pat. He was not the sole founder.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kepler's Bookstore in Menlo Park, Calif., has closed after 50 years. (Photo by Jessica Brandi Lifland for The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 Ira Sandperl was a fixture at Kepler's Bookstore for decades. (Photo by Jessica Brandi Lifland for The New York Times)(pg. B14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (94%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); MUSIC (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Books and Literature; Book Trade

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S COMPUTER CO INC (67%); A CLEAN WELL-LIGHTED PLACE FOR BOOKS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (82%) Kepler's Bookstore (Menlo Park, Calif); Stanford University

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (60%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (60%)

PERSON: John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Menlo Park (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



47 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE MAYOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Newcomer Is Struggling to Lead a City in Ruins

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; James Dao contributed reporting from New Orleans for this article.

 BODY:
He has been camped out for days on the 27th floor of a structurally damaged and powerless hotel in New Orleans, sending runners to communicate with the few staff members who remain in an increasingly futile effort to run some semblance of a municipal government.
 Like many others in New Orleans, Mayor C. Ray Nagin is a man with a home under water, a man whose family has fled to higher ground, a man who is worried about food and clean drinking water.
 But at this moment, what defines Mr. Nagin is that he is a mayor without a city.
 When he was elected three years ago, he was the great hope of New Orleans, a popular newcomer unfettered by ties to old-line political organizations, an energetic redeemer swept into office on the promise that he would rid the city of corruption. 
 Now New Orleans is in ruins. And Mayor Nagin is steadily losing what little power he has to govern the desperate and dispossessed citizens who remain under his care.
 On Thursday, four days after Hurricane Katrina struck, the personal toll of this harsh reality became clear.
 For a moment, Mr. Nagin's customarily calm demeanor dissolved into anger, and he lashed out at the federal government for what he called its slow response in sending the National Guard to help control the growing crisis.
 ''Don't tell me 40,000 people are coming here,'' he said. ''They're not here. It's too doggone late. Now get off your asses and do something, and let's fix the biggest goddamn crisis in the history of this country.''
 The interviewer, Garland Robinette of WWL-AM Radio, responded, ''I bet that the people listening to you are on your side.'' 
 Even a week ago, when the mayor's approval rating was over 60 percent, most would have agreed.
 But among the uncertainties that have followed in the hurricane's wake is what Mr. Nagin's legacy will be. Will he ultimately be viewed as a strong leader in crisis, a Southern version of Rudolph W. Giuliani, who guided New York through the dark days after Sept. 11? Or will he be remembered as a mayor who was not up to the task?
 In recent days, Mayor Nagin has been under attack inside and outside of the city. 
 His decision to stay at a Hyatt hotel near the Superdome has met with both praise and criticism. To his supporters, it is evidence that he is a captain who refuses to abandon his ship, even as it sinks. To his critics, it is proof of his stubbornness, a refusal to go with the rest of his government to makeshift quarters in the state capital, Baton Rouge, where he might have been in a better position to communicate with others and coordinate the relief effort.
 Many hurricane victims, living on the streets or huddled in unbearable conditions in the Superdome, had nothing but harsh words for the mayor. They blamed him, along with President Bush and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as failing to respond more quickly to their plight. And they called him a coward for not setting foot inside the putrid hallways of the stadium but instead speaking to people outside.
 ''We've been in here for five days, and he still hasn't shown his face to us,'' said Donnieka Rhinehart, 26, as she prepared to board a bus outside the domed stadium.
 ''I support the mayor,'' said Jason Magee, a golf professional from the New Orleans area living temporarily in Baton Rouge, 75 miles to the west-northwest. ''I think a lot of us do. I think this is a federal-level problem. I'm displaced and I'm not happy, but I'm not angry at the mayor.''
 Mr. Nagin could not be reached for comment despite repeated efforts through his staff members, who are working out of their cars or in temporary offices in Baton Rouge or Houston. He did meet with President Bush on Friday.
 Perhaps the strongest complaint against Mr. Nagin, himself an African-American, is that he did not move aggressively enough to evacuate the poorest, most vulnerable, predominantly African-American citizens from their low-lying neighborhoods in New Orleans East and the Lower Ninth Ward.
 Inside the Superdome, a rumor circulated that Mr. Nagin and other city officials deliberately dynamited levees after the hurricane so floodwater would be diverted from the French Quarter into the impoverished Ninth Ward.
 ''They saved the tourist area but ruined the Ninth Ward,'' said Ashan Jacobs, 25, a bartender.
 Louisiana officials have rallied to Mr. Nagin's side, emphasizing that the magnitude of the disaster would have overwhelmed any mayor.
 Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, said Mr. Nagin's best efforts were felled by the communication system that collapsed all around him.
 ''No matter how great a mayor is, and this mayor is great, they cannot function well without good communication,'' Ms. Landrieu said. ''No mayor could have kept control of this city without a functioning communication system. He couldn't call a press conference or the chief of police.''
 The city's head of intergovernmental relations, Kenya Smith, is among Mr. Nagin's closest aides. Mr. Smith, speaking from the state police headquarters in Baton Rouge, said he had never seen the mayor on the attack in quite the way he was in the radio interview on Thursday. But he questioned whether the mayor's outburst was strategically planned.
 ''It was probably designed to put a little fire under those who can get resources to the city,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I don't think it was so much him venting as trying to ensure the delivery of resources. It was not done without thought.''
 Rodney Braxton, the city's chief legislative lobbyist, added, ''It's important that people understand how frustrated he is.''
 Mr. Braxton added: ''Right now, he's very upset and agitated. I'm seeing a different Ray Nagin.'' 
 In March 2002, when Clarence Ray Nagin was elected with 58 percent of the vote, the city seemed to welcome him as an independent-thinking reformer who was not part of the cronyism that had in the past held so much sway over mayoral races.
 Disgusted with corruption in local government, voters gave him a chance, despite his lack of political experience.
 Mr. Nagin had been an executive with Cox Communications, which operates the local cable television system. 
 ''New Orleans is going to do things different,'' Mr. Nagin, a Democrat, told cheering supporters on election night after defeating his closest opponent, Richard Pennington, the former chief of police. 
 A product of the New Orleans public school system, Mr. Nagin seemed like someone waiting to give back. ''I'm not in it for the money; I'm in it for our children and grandchildren,'' he said after his election victory.
 In his three years in office, Mr. Nagin has begun to act on his campaign promises. He has started building and economic development programs valued at about $4 billion and was a proponent of homeownership in the city's poorest neighborhoods -- the ones that were most affected by the flooding.
 While working at Cox, Mr. Nagin was credited with turning around the faltering regional operation. As mayor, he said he would use his business acumen to create a larger black middle class by restructuring a local economy that had too many low-wage jobs in the tourism and hospitality industry, and not enough of anything else.
 Now, low-wage jobs are the least of Mr. Nagin's concerns. When the city finally dries out, many wonder if there will be any tourism industry left.
 ''There are lots of people who want to be the mayor of New Orleans,'' Mr. Braxton, the lobbyist, said, ''but I bet they don't want to be the mayor right now. I've asked him to come up here to Baton Rouge. But Ray said he is not going to leave New Orleans, period.''
 He added: ''It's exactly like this: The ship is full of water, but the captain is not leaving. Not without the crew. The crew are those poor people you see on TV in wheelchairs at the Superdome. That's his crew.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor C. Ray Nagin lashed out at the federal government for its response. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HURRICANES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); WEATHER (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (56%) Susan Saulny; C Ray (Mayor) Nagin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La); Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



48 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Led Into Temptation? Who Wasn't? 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
BEFORE he became an Internet analyst, Henry Blodget wanted to be a writer.
 Let me rephrase that. Before he became the living, breathing embodiment of Wall Street wrongdoing during the late, unlamented Internet bubble, Henry Blodget wanted to be a writer. (That's more like it, right?) After living in Japan in his 20's, Mr. Blodget wrote a book about his experiences, which was never published. Later, he eked out a meager living in New York as a freelance writer and copy editor.
So it is hardly a surprise that as he tries to recover from his post-bubble disgrace, the former Merrill Lynch analyst has returned to his first love. In 2003, Mr. Blodget began writing regularly for Slate, the online magazine, where he has covered the Martha Stewart trial and the business explosion in China, among other things. Articles under his byline have also appeared in New York magazine, Business 2.0, and most recently, the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. 
 The Times article, which ran on Tuesday, used the 10th anniversary of Netscape's initial public offering to meditate on the nature of booms and busts. It was smart, cogent, well written and -- regarding Mr. Blodget's own travails -- disarmingly self-deprecating. It made the worthy point that both the Internet bubble and subsequent bust were of a piece with booms and busts from time immemorial, and that promising new technologies, from railroads to personal computers, are always accompanied by initial flights of crazed enthusiasm, as money chases ideas both good and bad. Eventually, though, the bad ideas go down in flames, along with investors' capital. After which, the smaller handful of good ideas serve as the foundations for entire new industries.
 To judge from the handful of letters the newspaper received, however, one of them published yesterday, readers were in no mood to hear sage words about bubbles -- or anything else -- from Mr. Blodget. They're still too mad at him for losing their money. As one letter writer, an ex-securities analyst herself, put it, ''It broke my heart (and investors' wallets) when my former profession was degraded under the watch of Mr. Blodget.''
 As you'll no doubt recall, it was Mr. Blodget's private e-mail messages disparaging companies he was publicly promoting to investors -- companies from which Merrill Lynch was reaping investment banking fees -- that pretty much catapulted Eliot Spitzer's career as a Wall Street crusader. For his sins, Mr. Blodget paid a $4 million fine to the Securities and Exchange Commission, and agreed to be banished from Wall Street forever. Though plenty of other analysts were pushing unworthy stocks because of banking fees -- so many, in fact, that Mr. Spitzer, the New York attorney general, was able to extract $1.4 billion from the big Wall Street firms and force a series of reforms on the profession -- only two were singled out for public humiliation and punishment: Mr. Blodget and the Salomon Smith Barney telecommunications analyst Jack Grubman. If there is a Wall Street version of the Scarlet A, Mr. Blodget wears it.
 Myself, I think it's time to give the guy a break.
 IN sticking up for Henry Blodget, I am not sticking up for what he did. It was wrong, a violation of his responsibility to investors. Nor am I arguing that his punishment outweighed his crime; after all, he never faced criminal prosecution, he still has money, and frankly, the government did him a favor by banning him from Wall Street. He fell into Wall Street without training or background, and he never belonged there. He was a creature of an environment -- and an era --that he never really understood. He was the Internet era's Chauncey Gardiner. .
 No, what bugs me is the way we, the investing class, continue to embrace the all-too-convenient belief that we were somehow ''victimized'' by Mr. Blodget's stock picks. Be honest here. Did you buy bubble stocks like eToys or Pets.com because Henry Blodget told you to? Of course you didn't. You bought them because, like everyone else around you, you had taken leave of your senses. 
 David Denby, a film critic at The New Yorker and the author of ''American Sucker,'' a memoir about how he lost $900,000 playing the market during the bubble, came to know Mr. Blodget during his stock market obsession, and made him a central character in his book. In the early chapters of ''American Sucker,'' Mr. Denby is enamored of Mr. Blodget, hanging on his every word. By the end of the book, however, the author is thoroughly disenchanted with his former muse.
 But when I asked Mr. Denby how much he had relied on Mr. Blodget's stock picks, he replied, ''I didn't buy anything on his say-so.'' Indeed, he largely rejected the analyst's rather sound counsel: ''He warned me explicitly to be careful. He said I shouldn't have more than 10 percent of my portfolio in Internet stocks.'' Mr. Denby, however, looking for the quick killing, instead stuffed his portfolio with New Age stocks and wound up losing his shirt.
 Millions of Americans were looking for the quick killing during the bubble, just like Mr. Denby. It wasn't just investment bankers who wanted analysts to upgrade lousy stocks -- so did investors. Recall that Mr. Blodget's predecessor at Merrill Lynch actually lost his job because he was bearish on an important Internet stock, Amazon. It is pretty unlikely that investors would have reacted well had Mr. Blodget started downgrading stocks like InfoSpace (that ''piece of junk,'' as he once memorably called it in an e-mail message). We just didn't want to hear it. Our need now to find someone to blame for our own mistakes is one of our worst traits as a culture.
 Here's something else Mr. Denby told me: Even at the end, when he was thoroughly disillusioned, he still liked Henry Blodget. That is undoubtedly another reason I'm soft on Mr. Blodget. I like him, too. More than that, I admire the way he's handled himself in the aftermath of his humiliation.
 Over the last year or so, as he's tried to make the transition from pariah to writer, I've had lunch with him several times. At Mr. Blodget's insistence, the lunches are always private conversations. (He declined to comment for this column as well.) But I can tell you that Mr. Blodget neither excuses what he did, nor whines about his fate. He doesn't wallow in bitterness. Though he can't talk directly about his experience, he comes across as someone who finally has some perspective on how, and why, he became the hero of the bubble and the villain of the bust. And he's humbled. Contrast that with Mr. Grubman, who still doesn't get it. When asked recently by a magazine writer why he had been brought low by Mr. Spitzer, he replied arrogantly, ''When the market collapsed, who were they going to go after but the top dogs.'' 
 Recently, Slate held a staff retreat, and invited Mr. Spitzer to be the luncheon speaker -- before the sheer awkwardness of the situation dawned on Jacob Weisberg, the editor. Nonetheless, Mr. Blodget went to the retreat, listened gamely to the attorney general's remarks, and then had his first-ever conversation with Mr. Spitzer. Mr. Weisberg described the exchange as ''extremely gracious.'' 
 There is something distinctly American about falling flat on one'sface -- even doing something very wrong -- and then starting over and reinventing yourself for the better. Isn't that what Martha Stewart is doing right now --to the applause of million of Americans? And doesn't that also describe that symbol of 1980's Wall Street wrongdoing, Michael Milken, who spent several years in prison, but is now widely admired for his efforts to fund a cure for prostate cancer? Why shouldn't Henry Blodget be able to do the same?
 I happen to know, in fact, that Mr. Blodget has written a memoir of his time as an Internet analyst. It is sitting on a shelf somewhere, but Mr. Blodget cannot publish it because of constraints placed on him by either the government or Merrill Lynch. (Mr. Blodget won't say which.) 
 I would very much like to read Mr. Blodget's book. My guess is that his book would be vastly superior to the usual ''I done wrong'' memoir. His experience, not just as an Internet analyst but as a symbol of everything that went awry, has been tempered by time and distance and, I believe, a certain wisdom and maturity. I think he could tell us a good deal not only about what he did, and what Wall Street did, during the bubble, but what many of us did. I think we could come away with lessons about the madness of crowds, and about the nature of human frailty.
 But then, I'm biased. I'm rooting for Henry Blodget's redemption.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Blodget

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (91%); WRITERS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); ETHICS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Research; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Merrill Lynch & Co Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%); MARTHA STEWART (53%) Henry Blodget; Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



49 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Official Urges China to Deepen Commitment to Rights

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
China must tie its economic growth to faster improvements in the legal and political rights of its citizens, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, Louise Arbour, said here on Friday. 
 ''China has declared its commitment to human rights and has raised expectations for the country to match its growing prosperity with a firm commitment to advancing human rights,'' Ms. Arbour said at a news conference at the end of a five-day visit to China.
Chinese officials said ''change had to be gradual,'' she noted. ''While I do not disagree, I believe the stage is set for expecting more than modest progress in the coming years.'' 
 Ms. Arbour's visit, her first as the United Nations' top human rights advocate, underscored widespread concerns about rights in China at a time when the government is promising to strengthen the country's legal system but is also cracking down on dissent, sometimes harshly. 
 The United Nations delegation's discussions with Chinese officials and judges focused on strengthening the judiciary, limiting the death penalty and abolishing detention without trial. 
 The talks resulted in a signed agreement that will allow the United Nations' human rights agency to help China move toward ratifying the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which codifies many internationally agreed-upon human rights standards. 
 Ms. Arbour balanced her praise for China's growing body of laws promising rights with a warning that the country was far from the standards enshrined in the covenant and might even have recently experienced ''slippage'' in its protection of individual rights. 
 But she said she would be ''very surprised'' if there was not ''significant progress'' in coming years. 
 During Ms. Arbour's visit, however, several Chinese human rights critics in Beijing were placed under police surveillance or house arrest. They included Liu Xiaobo, a writer who was imprisoned for several years after the violent suppression of anti-government protests in 1989, and Hou Wenzhou, the executive director of the Empowerment and Rights Institute, an American-financed organization that was searched by the police on Tuesday. 
 Ms. Arbour said she asked Chinese officials about what appeared to be harassment, and she also presented them with a list of 10 longtime political detainees of concern to the United Nations human rights commission. 
 She said the detainees included the Panchen Lama, a 16-year-old Tibetan spiritual leader Beijing has under its control, as well as a journalist and a labor activist. 
 Chinese officials told Ms. Arbour that the detention of Ms. Hou was a ''routine police check'' of residency papers, but Ms. Arbor said he had no way to verify the explanation. 
 ''I think it's ironic that the way the Chinese government prepares to host the United Nations Commission on Human Rights is by placing dissidents under house arrest,'' said Hu Jia, a critic of the government who said he had also been held in his apartment by eight or nine police officers since the eve of Ms. Arbour's arrival. 
 While noting ''serious concerns'' about the Chinese government's human rights violations, Ms. Arbour said she expected that in coming years the country would develop more open, impartial courts and revise many of its laws to comply with the covenant. 
 ''China will have to spend some of its new wealth on developing this kind of infrastructure if it is serious about human rights,'' she said. 
 But the United Nations officials said they received no clear assurances on the two issues at the top of their agenda: labor ''re-education'' and the death penalty. China's labor re-education system allows the police to imprison citizens in special labor camps for up to four years without trial. 
 Human rights organizations and Chinese legal reformers have long called for the abolition of the practice and say the camps are used to hold political protesters and to detain people when evidence is insufficient to obtain a court conviction. 
 ''Re-education-through-labor is a longstanding irritant,'' Ms. Arbour said. About 250,000 Chinese are currently held in labor re-education camps, she added. 
 Judges on China's Supreme People's Court responded vaguely to the delegation's request for details about executed Chinese prisoners, Ms. Arbour said.
 She praised China's announcement that it would soon send all death sentences to its Supreme Court for review, but also called for more information about the number and nature of executions. 
 China does not provide public information about these executions, but human rights organizations estimate that about 10,000 or more occur every year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (95%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); TRENDS (73%); POLITICS (73%); HOUSE ARREST (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); ARRESTS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (91%) United Nations; United Nations Commission on Human Rights

PERSON: Chris Buckley; Louise (Comr) Arbour

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



50 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: The Bra Wars

 BODY:
The Bush administration, ignoring the lesson offered by a similarly ill-advised move across the Atlantic, has announced more restrictions on imports of bras and some fabrics made in China. The European Union has shown quite ably just how ridiculous this strategy is. Some 80 million garments have been held up in European ports because of complaints by European textile manufacturers about the flood of cheaper Chinese-made goods since the World Trade Organization abolished the quota system on Jan. 1. Most of those shipments have already been paid for, but arrived after E.U. quotas went into effect. The E.U.'s trade chief, Peter Mandelson, has asked the group's member nations to let the bras and other items in. He recently warned that not doing so could lead to ''severe economic pain for many smaller retailers and medium-sized businesses.'' European officials and China are still negotiating over the quota issue. 
 The real indication of how bankrupt the restrictions are can be seen in the emptying shelves at stores catering to low-income people. No European products can fill the breach; European manufacturers make high-end lingerie, not the cheap stuff.
 This isn't the way free trade is supposed to work. For all the talk on both sides of the Atlantic about the benefits of a global market unfettered by protectionism, the wealthy developed countries seem to want free trade only when it benefits their chosen big corporations. Meanwhile, poor consumers suffer the most. The Progressive Policy Institute, a research group in Washington, estimates that shoes and clothing -- particularly cheap shoes and cheap clothes -- have far higher import duties, relatively speaking, than most other products. 
 None of this politically expedient protectionism will change a single thing about the way the future is shaping up. Trade experts are unanimous in their belief that China, with its huge modern factories and inexhaustible pool of cheap labor, will continue to dominate the world market for mass-market textiles and apparel. Instead of trying to fight the inevitable, policy leaders in America and Europe should be focusing on developing industries in which their countries can remain competitive and on retraining the textile workers whose jobs migrate. Punishing lower-income consumers in the name of protecting jobs in a dying industry is not the way to go.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LINGERIE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TEXTILES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); TEXTILE MILLS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); POOR POPULATION (73%) Brassieres; Editorials; Protectionism (Trade); International Trade and World Market; Textiles; Free Ports and Trading Zones; Brassieres

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%) China; European Union

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



51 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Workers Are Finding a Voice Without a Union

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Having failed to unionize any Wal-Marts, American labor unions have helped form a new and unusual type of workers' association to press Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to improve its wages and working conditions. 
 With its first beachhead in Central Florida, the two-month-old group is already battling Wal-Mart, the nation's largest corporation, over what it says is the company's practice of reducing the hours that many employees work, often from 40 a week to 34, 30 or even fewer, jeopardizing some workers' health benefits.
Belva Whitt, a cashier who earns $7.40 an hour, said she had joined the new group, the Wal-Mart Workers Association, largely because she was unhappy with her wages and because her hours were reduced to part time from full time many weeks. 
 ''I'm a single mother trying to raise my son, so not having that money makes it hard,'' said Ms. Whitt, 30. ''Sometimes I have to decide, am I paying the rent or will I have food on the table?'' 
 The association says it has nearly 200 current and former Wal-Mart workers and is growing by 30 workers a week. Members pay dues of $5 a month. In Florida, its membership includes workers from 30 stores in the Tampa, Orlando and St. Petersburg areas, and it is also seeking to enlist Wal-Mart employees in Texas. 
 The group's sponsors include the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, the Service Employees International Union, and Acorn, an advocacy group for low-income people. It has also received support from the Marguerite Casey Foundation, which helps low-income families, and the Nathan Cummings Foundation, which promotes social justice.
 ''We are building something that's never been seen; it's neither fish nor fowl,'' said Wade Rathke, a top Acorn official who is the chief organizer for the association. ''We're focusing on Wal-Mart because it is the largest employer in the area -- and in the whole nation -- and is setting standards that affect communities and employment relations across the nation.''
 The association's workers, Mr. Rathke said, would seek to ''aggressively engage the company on their rights and how they are treated.''
 The group is urging the State of Florida to grant unemployment benefits to workers whose hours have been cut back by Wal-Mart. It is arguing that workers who quit Wal-Mart because the reduced hours meant they were not earning enough to live on deserve jobless benefits. It also wants supplemental jobless benefits for workers with reduced hours who remain at Wal-Mart. 
 Dan Fogleman, a Wal-Mart spokesman, defended the company. ''Our wages are competitive within the retail workplace,'' Mr. Fogleman said. ''We work hard to make health care premiums affordable.''
 He said the company's associates, as Wal-Mart calls its workers, were free to form such an organization. But he said that Wal-Mart hoped employees would feel free to bring any concerns to upper management through what the company calls its open-door policy.
 As for the reduction of hours, Mr. Fogleman said, ''For years we have had a scheduling system in place that is designed to match associates' work schedules to projected customer flow to our stores.''
 Warren May, a spokesman for the Florida agency in charge of unemployment benefits, said Wal-Mart workers who remained on the job might qualify for unemployment compensation if their hours were cut sharply. Mr. May said those who quit their jobs because of a reduction in hours might have a harder time winning benefits. 
 Carl Jones, one of the leaders of the new group, said Wal-Mart's pay was too low, pointing to the $9.40 an hour he earns after five years as the lead shopping cart pusher at a Wal-Mart in Apopka, outside Orlando.
 ''It's really hard for me and my wife to make ends meet,'' Mr. Jones said. ''They treat workers like we're just something there to be used and to get as much out of us as they can.''
 The association says Wal-Mart is betraying the desire of its founder, Sam Walton, to maintain a family-friendly company. 
 Ms. Whitt and several other members of the association say that Wal-Mart's health plan has such high premiums and deductibles that they cannot afford to join it. As a result, Ms. Whitt and thousands of other Wal-Mart workers receive health coverage through Medicaid.
 The Marguerite Casey Foundation has granted $250,000 to an Acorn-backed project that is in turn giving much of that money to the new association. 
 ''We want to broadly support economic justice,'' said Chantel L. Walker, the foundation's director of programs. ''We believe that Wal-Mart could really make a difference because of the size of their work force and because of the leadership role they play.''
 The association is the latest attempt by labor and community groups to squeeze at Wal-Mart's pressure points. In the past month, the food and commercial workers have led an effort, joined by the nation's two big teachers unions, urging consumers not to purchase school supplies at Wal-Mart. Another group, Wal-Mart Watch, plans to announce a week of demonstrations and meetings nationwide in November to criticize Wal-Mart's wages and benefits.
 Labor leaders say they support the nonunion Wal-Mart Workers Association because with the company fighting aggressively against unionization, they recognize that it will be extremely hard to unionize any Wal-Marts.
 ''This dovetails nicely with what we're doing,'' said William McDonough, organizing director of the food and commercial workers, which has sought unsuccessfully to unionize several Wal-Marts. ''Our role is to help Wal-Mart workers get a voice on the job.'' 
 Mr. McDonough said his union hoped that Wal-Mart workers would grow so emboldened and that community support would grow so strong that unions could succeed at organizing some Wal-Marts in a few years.
 The new association is not urging shoppers to boycott Wal-Mart.
 ''I like Wal-Mart, I enjoy working for them,'' Ms. Whitt said. ''But what they're doing is wrong. They need to fix it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl Jones and Gloria Baker, who work for Wal-Mart, at the office of the Wal-Mart Workers Association in Tampa, Fla., on Wednesday.
 Belva Whitt, a Wal-Mart cashier, says a reduced schedule has at times forced her to choose between paying rent or putting food on the table. (Photographs by Rob Mattson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FAMILY (75%); RETAILERS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (53%) Retail Stores and Trade; Organized Labor; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Working Hours; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



52 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Tennessee and the Sick 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Curing Health Costs: Let the Sick Suffer,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Sept. 1): As the rise in health care costs far outstrip inflation, Tennessee may not be the only state to embrace such barbaric measures as removing sick people from its Medicaid rolls to save money.
To the extent the problems with TennCare, the state's Medicaid program, are the result of past mismanagement by public and private entities, it would appear to be a measure of how seriously the health care concerns of the working poor are taken.
 It is odd that in such a rich country with such advanced medical technology, so many can suffer for lack of access to that technology.
 It also would appear that the marketplace does not always provide the efficiencies promised by market proponents. 
 Perhaps it is time to take a serious look at a single-payer system, which treats the health care concerns of all Americans as a matter, literally, of life and death.

Craig A. Jenkins
Pittsburgh, Sept. 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (88%); POOR POPULATION (87%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



53 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Output Halts as Machinists Strike 

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE; David Carrillo Penaloza, in Everett, Wash., and Alexei Barrionuevo, in Chicago, contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Boeing halted production yesterday as 18,000 machinists went on strike, dealing a setback to the company just as worldwide orders had begun to pick up and it was gaining ground against Airbus. 
 Picket lines went up outside Boeing factories after a midnight Thursday deadline. No negotiations between the sides are scheduled in the dispute, which centers on wages, health care and pension costs.
The striking workers are mainly in the Seattle area, where most of the company's production is based, with some 1,000 others at the company's Wichita, Kan., plant and another 1,000 in Gresham, Ore. The last machinists' strike against Boeing was in 1995 and lasted 69 days. 
 During 2005, Boeing anticipated selling 320 of its commercial aircraft. That exceeds Airbus's current orders of 276 and represents a strong comeback after a drop in orders following 9/11. 
 Wall Street analysts said they did not expect the strike to change Boeing's order outlook, even if it lasted for several months. Airplane orders typically have a long lead time and take more than a year to fulfill. 
 ''Does this mean that Boeing will lose business to Airbus?'' said Cai von Rumohr, an aerospace analyst with SG Cowen. ''If the strike does not last more than three months, that would be unlikely.'' 
 Boeing's shares, which had risen more than 35 percent during the year, were hit hard yesterday, falling by 2.5 percent, or $1.65, to close at $64.34. 
 The strike is expected to cost the company about $70 million a day. Even though Boeing will not assemble planes during the strike, the company said design and development work would continue, as well as customer support and fleet repairs.
 Employees who are not part of the machinists' union, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, have been reporting to work, said Charles Bickers, a Boeing spokesman. Striking employees represent about one-third of the company's work force in the Seattle area. 
 ''We're open to discussion as long as it is clear that both sides understand the business reality that we face,'' Mr. Bickers said. 
 Talks between Boeing and the union broke down after three months of negotiations. Boeing offered employees a 5.5 percent wage increase and pension payments of $66 a month for every year of a retired employee's service. Boeing proposed separate packages for its Wichita employees. 
 The union wants employees in Wichita to get the same package as all others and is seeking greater job security. It is pushing for $80 -a month in pension payments and objects to the company's new health care plan, which it says pushes too many costs onto the workers. 
 Mark Blondin, president of Union District 751, said the Boeing offer represented a ''corporate strategy to break the workers who have built this company.'' Mr. Blondin, noting that Boeing's profits had tripled in the last three years, said the union had ''simply asked Boeing to do the right thing for their work force.''
 Howard A. Rubel, an aerospace analyst with Jefferies & Company, questioned the timing of the strike, coming as it does while Americans are worried about the economy and caught up in the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina. ''What's happening in New Orleans puts everything in perspective,'' Mr. Rubel said.
 One of the striking workers, John Jenkins, said yesterday that he had family in Louisiana and Mississippi and that his thoughts were with them. Mr. Jenkins also said that he was ''100 percent'' for the strike. Standing on a corner of the Union's District 751 office, across the street from the Everett plant, he held a picket sign while listening to blues music coming from his sport utility vehicle parked nearby.
 ''I'm just worried about pension and medical,'' said Mr. Jenkins, a 41-year-old aircraft mechanic who has worked at Boeing for 18 years. 
 Along Airport Road outside the Boeing plant, passing cars honked their horns and gave the thumbs up sign to the picketers. 
 Jaunice Conyers, 50, a mechanic who has worked for Boeing for 10 years, said: ''We make them a lot of money. They can give a lot of money to the C.E.O.'s, and they can retire for the rest of their lives. But they don't want to give the small people anything, besides just a paycheck.'' 
 Yesterday, a regulatory filing showed that Boeing gave two top interim executives $2 million in stock awards for their work this year. 
 James A. Bell, the chief financial officer who filled in as the company's chief executive before James McNerney took over in July, was granted 22,433 restricted stock units worth $1.5 million, according to the filing. The award was granted in recognition of Mr. Bell's tenure as chief executive from March 6 to June 30. Mr. Bell replaced Harry Stonecipher, who was ousted over an affair with another Boeing executive.
 Boeing's board also gave its lead director, Lewis E. Platt, 7,398 shares of Boeing stock valued at $500,000, based on the Aug. 29 closing price, for his services as chairman during the interim period.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Boeing machinists on the picket line yesterday in Renton, Wash. The strikers and the company disagree on wages and benefits. (Photo by Ted S. Warren/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%) Airlines and Airplanes; Strikes; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Production; Labor; Organized Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (59%) Boeing Co; International Assn of Machinists and Aerospace Workers

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: Leslie Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



54 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Members Dig In Heels In Aid Dispute With U.S.

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
United Nations diplomats vowed to keep negotiating next week on a pivotal document for an approaching summit meeting, but a dispute sharpened Friday over American amendments that are seen as diluting the meeting's central theme of increasing development aid.
 More than 170 national leaders, including President Bush, are due at the United Nations for the gathering, from Sept. 14 to 16. The talks are to update the millennium summit meeting on development that was held in 2000. They will also consider the most sweeping institutional changes in the United Nations' 60-year history. 
 Talks on the document framing the proposals and changes have intensified in the week since the United States introduced more than 400 amendments and deletions. The dispute has focused on one of them, an American demand that all occurrences of the phrase ''millennium development goals'' be eliminated.
 The phrase, so accepted at the United Nations that it is routinely referred to by its initials, M.D.G., describes eight objectives covering poverty, sexual discrimination, hunger, primary education, child mortality, maternal health, the environment and disease.
 ''Will we yield on the M.D.G.?'' asked Munir Akram, Pakistan's ambassador. ''No, I don't think so. I think that M.D.G. is now a concept, a slogan if you will, that has captured the imagination of common people around the world.''
 In a letter to other envoys, John R. Bolton, the American ambassador, explained that the United States supported the goals enunciated by the millennium summit meeting but not the ''package of goals and subsidiary targets and indicators'' that were later circulated by the Secretariat.
 He proposed substituting the words ''internationally agreed development goals, including those in the millennium declaration.'' 
 But what the United States appeared to hope would be a matter of semantics has become a galvanizing element and rallying cry for most of the other 190 countries.
 ''The issue of M.D.G. has never gotten so much coverage,'' said Salil Shetty, director of the United Nations millennium campaign. ''It's only been a conversation point until now among the political elite. I don't think we in the millennium campaign could have achieved so much as Bolton has in terms of bringing it into the public domain.''
 He said that even some developing nations had been worrying that the adoption of the goals would come ''with some kind of conditionality, some kind of mechanism tying the M.D.G. to aid, but now they've dropped their doubts and have jumped in with gusto.''
 The matter has arisen at a time when the performance of Mr. Bolton has been under particular scrutiny because he is new to his job and has a past of being critical, almost dismissive, about the United Nations. He took up his post on Aug. 1, the day he received a special appointment from President Bush after failing to gain Senate confirmation.
 Since Mr. Bolton's arrival, American actions have appeared more assertive, and questions have arisen whether he is carrying out the traditional mission of executing State Department policy or originating his own.
 ''Negotiating this way is either a brilliant negotiating ploy on the part of the U.S. or it's Bolton freelancing, and it's almost impossible to tell which,'' said John G. Ruggie, a professor of international relations at Harvard and a former under secretary general for planning.
 William H. Luers, president of the United Nations Association of the United States, said, ''I've no doubt that the intention of the administration is to get a good document, but the fact that they came out with it so late and so strenuously has left a bad taste in the mouths of most of the delegations involved.''
 David Shorr, program officer of the Stanley Foundation, which supports the United Nations, said the belated American move had been ''at a minimum, a serious tactical error.''
 ''While U.S. officials portray this as standard operating procedure,'' he said, ''it fostered the perception that Washington is asking for the moon and not ready to compromise.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (72%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); DISCRIMINATION (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (52%) Foreign Aid ; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations; United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Warren Hoge; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



55 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Katrina's Assault on Washington

 BODY:
Do not be misled by Congress's approval of $10.5 billion in relief for the Hurricane Katrina victims. That's prompted by the graphic shock of the news coverage from New Orleans and the region, where the devastation catapults daily, in heartbreaking contrast with the slo-mo bumblings of government. 
 There are dozens of questions Americans will demand to have answered once this emergency has passed. If the Homeland Security Department was so ill prepared for a natural disaster that everyone knew was coming, how is it equipped to handle other kinds of crises? Has the war in Iraq drained the nation of resources that it needs for things like flood prevention? Is the National Guard ready to handle a disaster that might be even worse, like a biological or nuclear attack? 
One thing is certain: if President Bush and his Republican Congressional leaders want to deal responsibly with a historic disaster of this scale, they must finally try the path of honestly shared national sacrifice. If they respond by passing a few emergency measures and then falling back on their plans to enact more tax cuts, America will have to confront the fact that it is stuck with leaders who neither know, nor care, how to lead. 
 The pre-Katrina plan for this Congressional season was to enact more upper-bracket tax cuts for the least needy, while cutting into the safety-net programs for sick and impoverished Americans. These are the very entitlement programs most needed by the sudden underclass of hundreds of thousands of hurricane refugees cast adrift like Dustbowl Okies. Will Congress dare to go forward with these retrogressive plans in the face of the suffering from Katrina? Its woeful track record suggests that, shockingly, the answer may be yes. 
 G.O.P. leaders are set to mandate billions in Medicaid and antipoverty cuts this month, while the Senate is poised to try again to repeal the estate tax, a monumental folly that will deprive the deficit-ridden government of an estimated $750 billion in vital revenue in the first decade. The theory is that over the long run, the missing money will ''starve the beast'' and force Washington to make huge cuts in federal programs. The public has never bought this, but as long as the economy held up, it was willing to ignore the long-term implications.
 That can't be the case now, when those implications are sitting in filthy refugee centers, when the streets of New Orleans are under water and when the nation must take care of hundreds of thousands of homeless people. Yet President Bush has still managed to repeat his no-taxes mantra. 
 Senator Mary Landrieu, the Louisiana Democrat, is now fighting for every available dollar to restore her state. Republicans had been wooing Ms. Landrieu as a possible supporter of the estate tax repeal. Now, we presume, she has higher priorities. 
 Washington's inspiration must now be the individual rescuers in New Orleans, who have labored so bravely and selflessly, as well as the charitable deeds of local and state governments. Houston's offer of shelter at the Astrodome has put self-regarding national politicians to shame. 
 Congress and the president had better get the message: an extraordinary time is upon the nation. The annihilation in New Orleans is an irrefutable sign that the national tax-cut party is over. So is the idea that American voters cannot be required to accept sacrifice or inconvenience, no matter how great the crisis. This country is better than that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); APPROVALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESTATE TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STARVATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); WEATHER (78%); MEDICAID (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); FLOOD CONTROL (69%); HOMELESSNESS (64%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Editorials; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



56 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2661 words

HEADLINE: MORE TROOPS AND AID REACH NEW ORLEANS; BUSH VISITS AREA; CHAOTIC EXODUS CONTINUES

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO and N. R. KLEINFIELD; James Dao reported from New Orleans for this article, and N.R. Kleinfield from New York. Reporting was also contributed by Felicity Barringer and Joseph B. Treaster in New Orleans and Jeremy Alford in Baton Rouge, La.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Military vehicles bearing food and supplies sloshed into the drenched heart of this humbled and stricken city on Friday, while commercial airplanes and cargo planes arrived to lift beleaguered hurricane survivors from the depths of a ghastly horror.
 Five days after Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast, the chaotic scene at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport evoked the mix of hope and despair that has gripped this city. Disorder prevailed, as thousands of survivors with glazed looks and nothing more than garbage bags of possessions waited in interminable lines for a chance to get out.
Patrolmen yelled out the number of available seats on each flight, and passengers boarded planes not knowing where they would land, and not caring. An increasing number of cities and states across the country were offering to take them in. 
 The airport was a stark landscape of triage, with rows of people on stretchers and others bound to wheelchairs, including someone already dead, in a wing that had been converted into the world's largest emergency room. A morgue had been set up in one concourse.
 The fresh wave of relief efforts came on a day when President Bush toured the ravaged region by helicopter and walked through the residue of Biloxi, Miss., before ending up in New Orleans, where he told survivors, ''I'm going to fly out of here in a minute, but I want you to know that I'm not going to forget what I've seen.''
 Scores of amphibious vehicles and Humvees carrying thousands of newly dispatched armed National Guardsmen pushed through New Orleans in a daylong parade, hoping to replenish the dire needs of the stranded and to try to restore order to a city that had devolved into wantonness. In one sign of the boundless despair, police officials acknowledged that some New Orleans officers had turned in their badges, refusing to risk their lives to try to right the city. 
 Another new ingredient was a spate of fires that broke out and were left to burn, because hydrants were not working and firefighters had no way to get to the blazes in the water-soaked city. 
 Dan Craig, director of recovery for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, estimated that it could take six months to drain the city and another three months to dry it. State officials said that it would take more than a month, and that pumping would begin on Monday.
 In a city too bruised to know what to feel, many of the famished survivors applauded the arrival of the relief trucks, though others, enraged at how long their wait had been, showered them with profanities.
 A critical juncture was reached when the overwhelmed Superdome, the site of unimaginably squalid conditions, was mostly emptied by day's end. Thousands of other survivors, though, remained stranded in the putrid convention center. Others were said to remain perched on roofs, even this long after the storm. 
 No one could convincingly say when the last of the living would be removed from the city, though state officials said they hoped to complete the process by Sunday. Dead bodies continued to present themselves at every turn. Medical authorities said 8 to 10 people an hour were dying at the city's hospitals.
 The supply convoy showed up just hours after Mayor C. Ray Nagin exploded in a radio interview on Thursday night, castigating the federal government, particularly FEMA, for what he felt was a lame and puny response to his city's needs. 
 By Friday, about 19,500 National Guard troops had arrived in Louisiana and Mississippi, and 6,500 in New Orleans itself, mostly military police officers, though Mr. Nagin maintained that was still not enough. 
 Senior Pentagon and military officials said the Guard presence in the hurricane zone would grow to 30,000 in coming days, mostly in Louisiana and Mississippi, with the rest going to Alabama and Florida. 
 The guardsmen were posted at major intersections, and Army vehicles patrolled the streets, seeking to quell the looting and unrestrained crime that has shocked the nation. Some 300 members of the Arkansas National Guard, just back from Iraq, were among those deployed from foreign assignments specifically to bring order.
 ''I have one message for these hoodlums,'' said Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana. ''These troops know how to shoot and kill, and they are more than willing to do so if necessary.'' 
 In the radio interview, Mayor Nagin blamed much of the widespread crime on crazed drug addicts cut off from their fixes. 
 Lt. Gov. Steven Blum said in Baton Rouge, the capital, ''I am confident that within the next 24 hours we will see a dramatic improvement.'' 
 Buses continued to wheel out of the city loaded with refugees from the Superdome and from around the convention center, the two principal shelters for those left behind, moving them to new, makeshift lives in the Houston Astrodome and other far-flung evacuation quarters like Reunion Arena in Dallas and a warehouse at KellyUSA, a city-owned complex in San Antonio. 
 One evacuation bus carrying 50 people to Texas overturned on Interstate 49, near Opelousas, the police said, killing one person and injuring 17 others.
 Admissions to the Astrodome were halted after about 11,000 people had been accepted, fewer than half of what was planned, because officials felt it had become crowded enough. 
 The Superdome, where upward of 25,000 people had sweltered in conditions described as unfit for animals, was mostly emptied, though 1,500 were still there late Friday. They had renamed the place, rife with overflowing toilets and reports of murder and rape, the Sewerdome.
 Edgar John Thead, 68, who sat with his 65-year-old wife, said he had been in line for the buses at 4 a.m., but had to withdraw because his diabetic wife could not stand the heat. ''I'll be the last one in line,'' he said.
 Throughout New Orleans, thousands of people, many of them among the city's poorest and most marginalized residents, were still unsure when and how they would get out. 
 An estimated 20,000 were said to be at the four-story convention center, which at some points apparently attracted as many refugees as the Superdome but was ignored much longer by rescue operations. Conditions there were even worse than at the Superdome, with armed thugs seizing control and, the authorities said, repulsing squads of police officers sent to retake it. 
 On Friday morning, people huddled in small groups inside the center or sat on orange folding chairs outside, a gruesome mockery of an actual convention. Amid overflowing toilets, an elderly women and a teenage boy were having seizures in the arms of relatives. 
 Evacuees said that seven dead bodies littered the third floor. They said a 14-year-old girl had been raped. 
 There was a pervasive feeling of abandonment. ''The trucks kept passing us up; they just kept going further east,'' said Louis Martin Sr., a truck driver who had been at the center since Tuesday.
 In the afternoon, P. Edwin Compass III, the superintendent of police, drove by on the running board of a van and shouted that food and buses were on the way. Some people responded with soft applause, while others jeered. A woman ran alongside the van, shrieking: ''We don't need food! Get us out of here!'' 
 Throughout the city, where it was dry enough, people wandered in dazes. Along St. Charles Avenue, clumps of people trudged with plastic bags of belongings. Some had fled the violence of the convention center. Others searched for vans.
 Outside the Hyatt hotel next to the Superdome, scores of tour buses in ankle-deep water waited to evacuate people who had been living in and around the stadium. ''It's been hell,'' said Donnieka Rhinehart, 26, a nursing assistant who said she had lived in the stadium with her two small children since Monday. She said she saw a rape and heard that a girl's throat had been cut. 
 The quickest way out of the city on Friday seemed to be the airport, after government officials arranged for more than a dozen airlines and cargo operators to volunteer planes to fly people to safety. But the lines never seemed to diminish. As soon as one flight took off, seven or eight helicopters would land on the tarmac with additional batches of survivors.
 Airport authorities did not know where the helicopters came from. ''Helicopters just appear,'' said Carolyn Lowe, a deputy director of the airport. 
 Other cities and states continued to extend interim refuge and other forms of aid for the affected areas. Philadelphia announced that it was willing to take in a thousand families from New Orleans, and Detroit offered refuge as well. New York, Florida, Ohio, Oklahoma, Georgia, California, Utah, Virginia and Washington were among other states offering to provide general support or take refugees. Some states promised to allow children of evacuees to enroll in their schools.
 During his tour of the area, President Bush kissed two weeping women who said they had lost everything in Biloxi, and he then walked down the street with his arms around them. 
 Speaking about the rescue and relief efforts before leaving Washington, Mr. Bush acknowledged that ''the results are not acceptable'' and pledged to do more, saying the $10.5 billion in aid authorized by Congress was but a ''down payment'' on the disaster relief.
 In Washington, members of the Congressional Black Caucus called the federal response shameful, and lawmakers from both sides of the aisle promised hearings on what had gone wrong. 
 That there was much peril remaining in New Orleans was without question. Before daybreak, an explosion tore through a warehouse along the Mississippi River, a dozen blocks or so from the French Quarter. And a fire at an oil storage facility across the river sent a plume of smoke across the city. 
 The situation was terrifying at some of the city's hospitals for much of the day. Doctors, nurses and patients at Charity Hospital had to plead for help for more than 100 patients, who were later evacuated after violence had earlier prevented rescuers from getting in. 
 Six patients had died during the wait for evacuation. Staff members were still inside, and some were reportedly keeping others alive with intravenous fluids. All were evacuated by the end of the day. 
 Those who call New Orleans home and cherish its idiosyncratic stamp on the American landscape could only guess at what their city would look like and how broken it would be when the day came that the waters went away.
 The Army Corps of Engineers kept at the repair work on the broken levees that had allowed Lake Pontchartrain to thunder into the bowl-like city after it seemed that damage from the hurricane had ceased. And after three days of delays, the Corps and a swelling army of private contractors slowly began to set the stage for draining the hundreds of billions of gallons of floodwaters from the city. 
 The plan was to close the holes that the storm tides had opened and break open new holes in places where the levees were holding water in the city rather than letting it out.
 A train of dump trucks and a yellow bulldozer began laying a narrow, temporary road of black rubble and gravel from dry ground to the north end of the 300-foot breach in a wall of the 17th Street Canal, through which most of the floodwaters passed. At the same time, heavy-lift helicopters lowered hundreds of huge sandbags into the south end of the gap.
 The height of the water in the streets and the adjoining lake had leveled off, so water was no longer rising. The authorities were hopeful that the breach could be slowly, if temporarily, blocked. At the same time, Lt. Gen. Carl Strock, commander of the Corps, said he was concerned about storms forming in the Atlantic.
 ''We want to make sure that we don't catch ourselves with levees open and have another storm front move in on us,'' General Strock said. 
 Efforts to set life right again persisted throughout the Gulf Coast, as hundreds of thousands went on without electricity, and in many cases, homes. Relatives still sought feverishly to find loved ones. The number of deaths remained unknown, with estimates continuing to run into the thousands.
 Researchers who flew over 180 miles of coast between Pensacola, Fla., and Grand Isle, La., said that along the shore, for blocks inland, nothing remained but concrete slabs and chunks of asphalt. Often, they said, it was impossible to tell what had been there before the storm.
 There were more and more scattered signs of the crippling economic impact. A preliminary assessment from the oyster industry, one of Louisiana's flourishing seafood businesses, found that while the western side of the state fared well, everything east of Bayou Lafourche to the Mississippi line was ruined. The area accounts for two-thirds of the state's oyster harvesting, or $181 million a year. With federal aid, officials said, it could take two to three years for the crop to return.
 The frenzied pursuit of gasoline by motorists in the region did not slacken, and disruptions of routines continued. In Georgia, schools in Hancock County were closed on Thursday because of a gasoline shortage.
 Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia signed an executive order temporarily halting state collection of all motor fuel taxes, effective after midnight Friday. This should reduce gas prices by about 15 cents a gallon. Mr. Perdue said he hoped to keep the moratorium in effect through September, but needed the approval of the legislature, which will convene a special session starting Tuesday.
 ''I believe it's wrong for the state to reap a tax windfall in this time of urgency and tragedy,'' Mr. Perdue said. 
 Other states were contemplating actions of their own. California announced that it was beginning an investigation into gasoline price gouging in the state.
 Meanwhile, in scattered camps in increasingly far-flung locations, countless thousands of refugees were fumbling to understand the next steps in their lives.
 Barry Mason, 54, of New Orleans traded a spot in the Superdome for a seat by the 40-yard-line in the Houston Astrodome. The Superdome was ''filled with all kinds of unbelievable filth, a screaming mess,'' he said, but spending the night in a chair was not much better.
 ''This is what they brought us to?'' Mr. Mason said.


LOUISIANA OFFSHORE OIL PORT
The deepwater terminal has resumed operations.

OFFSHORE PLATFORMS
Eighty-nine percent of oil production remains shut down. Four deep water platforms may have suffered extensive damage.

Map of the states surrounding the Guld of Mexico highlight the following:
Oil infrastructure
(Refineries)
(Major pipelines)

Counties declared eligible by FEMA for:
Public assistance
Individual assistance
Map also highlights the path of Hurricane Katrina.

Map of New Orleans highlights the following:
LONDON AVENUE CANAL BREACH
A nearby street was torn up and the rubble used to fill the breach.

INDUSTRIAL CANAL BREACH
Water is flowing out of the city through the breach.

SUPERDOME AND CONVENTION CENTER
6,500 National Guard troops arrived, delivering aid to thousands still in the convention center. The Superdome was nearly empty.

MAJOR FIRE
An explosion at a warehouse caused a large fire early yesterday morning.

LOUIS ARMSTRONG AIRPORT AND FEMA FIELD HOSPITAL
Thousands were flown to San Antonio and other refugee destinations. At least 2,000 patients who had been evacuated from flooded hospitals were in a makeshift triage center.

Diagram/Photo highlights:
17TH STREET CANAL BREACH
 The Army Corps of Engineers is working with a construction company to seal off the 17th Street Canal from Lake Pontchartrain using interlocking steel pilings. Stopping the water flow from the lake allows the break in the levee to be repaired, a necessary step before pumps can begin moving water out of flooded areas.

(photograph by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

(Sources by Charles Dowding, Northwestern University; Army Corps of Engineers; Texas Governor's Office; American Petroleum Institute)(pg. A18)

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 15 about the National Football League's effort to create a home-field atmosphere for the New Orleans Saints misstated the name of the New Orleans police superintendent, who was to take part in the coin toss at a game with the New York Giants. (The error also occurred in numerous articles between Sept. 3 and Sept. 14.) The superintendent, who announced his retirement on Tuesday, is Edwin P. Compass III, not P. Edwin Compass III.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elderly evacuees, many of them in critical condition, were placed at New Orleans's airport yesterday to await flights to San Antonio. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)
Robin Whittington, 44, greeted her husband, Bernell Richardson, 34, yesterday at the airport. They had lost track of each other in the airlift. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)
Refugees from Hurricane Katrina were evacuated aboard a Marine helicopter yesterday near the convention center in New Orleans. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana with President Bush. (Photo by Susan Walsh/The Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 A woman's body was sprawled in the water yesterday near the Superdome in Hurricane Katrina's aftermath. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A18)Chart/Map: ''A Burdened Region Absorbs Refugees''There were signs of recovery in the gulf's oil machinery, and evacuees sought shelter across the South.SAN ANTONIO -- Several shelters, including a former part of an Air Force base can take in up to 25,000 people.AUSTIN and other cities have agreed to take in collectively more than 12,000 evacuees.DALLAS -- Several shelters, including the Reunion Arena, can take up to 25,000 evacuees.HOUSTON -- Yesterday afternoon, there were 15,000 people in the Astrodome and 3,000 in Reliant Arena. Those and other shelters can take in 25,000 people.MOBILE -- President Bush toured Mobile pledging, ''What is not working right, we're going to make it right.''REFINERIES -- Eight refineries, more than 8 percent of domestic capacity, are shut down. Eleven are running at reduced levels.PIPELINES -- Three major pipelines that serve the East Coast and Midwest are operating and expected to be running at full capacity soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); AIRPORTS (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); ARMED FORCES (79%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); HELICOPTERS (73%); POLICE FORCES (58%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Airlifts; Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport; Police; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); KATHLEEN BLANCO (57%) James Dao; N R Kleinfield; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La); Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



57 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: EYES ON AMERICA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Across U.S., Outrage at Response

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM; Reporting for this article was contributed by Gary Gately in Baltimore, Laurie Goodstein in Chicago, Carolyn Marshall in San Francisco, and Jennifer Medina and Marek J. Fuchs in New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
There was anger: David Vitter, Louisiana's freshman Republican senator, gave the federal government an F on Friday for its handling of the whirlwind after the storm. And Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and the former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, declared, ''We cannot allow it to be said that the difference between those who lived and those who died'' amounted to ''nothing more than poverty, age or skin color.'' 
 There was shock at the slow response: Joseph P. Riley Jr., the 29-year Democratic mayor of Charleston, S.C., and a veteran of Hurricane Hugo's wrath, said: ''I knew in Charleston, looking at the Weather Channel, that Gulfport was going to be destroyed. I'm the mayor of Charleston, but I knew that!''
But perhaps most of all there was shame, a deep collective national disbelief that the world's sole remaining superpower could not -- or at least had not -- responded faster and more forcefully to a disaster that had been among its own government's worst-case possibilities for years. 
 ''It really makes us look very much like Bangladesh or Baghdad,'' said David Herbert Donald, the retired Harvard historian of the Civil War and a native Mississippian, who said that Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman's destructive march from Atlanta to the sea paled by comparison. ''I'm 84 years old. I've been around a long time, but I've never seen anything like this.''
 Around the nation, and indeed the world, the reaction to Hurricane Katrina's devastation stretched beyond the usual political recriminations and swift second-guessing that so often follow calamities. In dozens of interviews and editorials, feelings deeper and more troubled bubbled to the surface in response to the flooding and looting that ''humbled the most powerful nation on the planet,'' and showed ''how quickly the thin veneer of civilization can be stripped away,'' as The Daily Mail of London put it.
 ''It's very disappointing,'' said Dr. Kauser Akhter, a physician from Tampa, Fla., who was attending a convention of the Islamic Society of North America outside Chicago. 
 ''I think they were too slow to respond. Maybe the response would have been quicker if it had occurred in some other area of the country, for example in New York or California where there's more money, more people who are going to object, raise their voices,'' she said. ''Those people are the poorest of the poor in Mississippi and Alabama, and it seems they had no access to anything.''
 Jonathan Williams, an architect in Hartford, originally from Uganda, said the delayed arrival of relief and aid supplies in New Orleans made him wonder about how the United States responds to disasters abroad.
 ''I am in utter shock,'' he said in an interview at Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan on Friday. ''There is just total disarray. This far into the cleanup and they are still understaffed? I am just so disappointed. It's just a terrible, sad situation.''
 But Mr. Williams added: ''You cannot just blame the president, or any one person. Everyone is partly to blame. It's the whole system.''
 It was the combination of specific and systemic failures that many of those interviewed -- experts and ordinary people alike -- echoed.
 Andrew Young, the former civil rights worker and mayor of Atlanta who was Jimmy Carter's ambassador to the United Nations, was born in New Orleans 73 years ago, walked on its levees as a boy and ''was always assured by my father that the Army Corps of Engineers had done a masterful job.'' But, Mr. Young said, ''they've been neglected for the last 20 years,'' along with other pillars of the nation's infrastructure, human and physical.
 ''I was surprised and not surprised,'' he said of the failures and suffering of this week. 
 ''It's not just a lack of preparedness. I think the easy answer is to say that these are poor people and black people and so the government doesn't give a damn,'' he said. ''That's O.K., and there might be some truth to that. But I think we've got to see this as a serious problem of the long-term neglect of an environmental system on which our nation depends. All the grain that's grown in Iowa and Illinois, and the huge industrial output of the Midwest has to come down the Mississippi River, and there has to be a port to handle it, to keep a functioning economy in the United States of America.'' 
 Mr. Riley, the Charleston mayor, whose Police Department on Monday sent 55 officers to help keep order in Gulfport, Miss., said he had long advocated creating a special military entity -- perhaps under the Corps of Engineers -- that could respond immediately to disasters. 
 ''It's not the police function,'' he said. ''It's that it's an entity that knows how to quickly restore infrastructure and the essentials of order.'' He said his own experience with the Federal Emergency Management Agency during Hurricane Hugo in 1989, when he had the National Guard on standby and then requested Army troops and marines, had convinced him that civilian bureaucracy was sometimes too caught up in the niceties.
 ''With the eye of Hugo over my City Hall, literally, I said to a FEMA official, 'What's the main bit of advice you can give me?' and he said, 'You need to make sure you're accounting for all your expenses,'' Mayor Riley recalled. ''The tragedy of these things is the unnecessary pain in those early days, the complete destruction of normalcy.''
 Few suggested the challenges of this particular storm had been easy.
 Priscilla Turner, 55, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., is a registered Democrat, but she said President Bush was being saddled with some unfair blame. ''There is an instinct to be so negative,'' Ms. Turner said, ''to wish for the worst, to anticipate the worse, to glory and wallow in the worst.'' If Mr. Bush had sent troops to New Orleans too quickly, she said, his detractors would have portrayed him as ''going in with guns blazing.''
 As it is, criticism of Mr. Bush has been unsparing, especially abroad. European newspaper headlines used words like ''anarchy'' and ''apocalypse'' and some ordinary citizens in less fortunate parts of the world spoke with virtual contempt for what they saw as an American failure to live up to its professed ideals.
 ''I am absolutely disgusted,'' said Sajeewa Chinthaka, 36, watching a cricket match in Colombo, Sri Lanka, according to the Reuters news agency. ''After the tsunami, our people, even the ones who lost everything, wanted to help the others who were suffering. Not a single tourist caught in the tsunami was mugged. Now with all this happening in the U.S., we can easily see where the civilized part of the world's population is.''
 There was anger closer to home, too, especially among blacks.
 ''Babies, the elderly are dying on the streets,'' said Rebecca Chalk, 60, financial aid director at Sojourner-Douglass College in Baltimore. ''It doesn't speak well of America.''
 Ms. Chalk added: ''People are desperate; they're hungry and panicky and they lost everything. The bureaucracy seems like it has to go through all these channels. They should have just gotten the people help by now.''
 Calvin Kelly, 40, works in a San Francisco food bank warehouse but was born in New Orleans and has been unable toreach elderly family members, including two grandmothers and a 99-year-old aunt, who still live there. ''The National Guard is just now getting there,'' Mr. Kelly said, shaking his head. ''The government should have been there when the storm first hit.''
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in an unusual foray into domestic affairs, sharply disputed any suggestion that storm victims had somehow been overlooked because of their race. ''We're all going to need to be in this together,'' she said in announcing offers of foreign aid. ''I think everybody's very emotional. It's hard to watch pictures of any American going through this. And yes, the African-American community has obviously been very heavily affected.''
 But noting her own roots in Alabama, and her father's in Louisiana, Dr. Rice announced plans to visit the region this weekend and said, ''That Americans would somehow in a color-affected way decide who to help and who not to help -- I just don't believe it.''
 By no means did all the criticism come from blacks, or from Mr. Bush's political opponents. 
 Senator Vitter spent part of Friday touring the devastation with Mr. Bush and told reporters that he hoped a turnaround was in the offing. But earlier in the day, news agencies reported, he said the ''operational effectiveness'' of federal efforts to date deserved a failing grade, or lower.
 Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, who also spent part of the day with the president and went out of his way to praise the government's response, offered a sober assessment.
 ''We're going to be fine at the end of the day,'' Mr. Barbour said, ''but the end of the day's a long way away.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At the New Orleans convention center, Elnisha Jones wept while awaiting food and water yesterday with her young son Tyson Lafrance and thousands of other displaced survivors in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CAUCUSES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); MAYORS (70%); HISTORY (65%); RELIGION (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; News and News Media; Blacks; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (90%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Todd S Purdum; David (Sen) Vitter; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UGANDA (79%) New Orleans (La); Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



58 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS: WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: For the Trump-Deprived

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
IT is impossible to read Donald Trump's blog without hearing his voice and picturing him typing away in his Turnbull & Asser pajamas, sleep still in his eyes. Otherwise, ''The Trump Blog'' (what else?) seems a lot like most other blogs. Which is to say, lightweight and highly egocentric.
 The Trump Blog is featured on the Web site for Trump University (trumpuniversity.com), which is basically a series of seminars on how to get rich. Mr. Trump and ''his circle of experts'' run the blog, though The Donald himself ducks in only occasionally. 
''The glamour and grandeur of my buildings and my life are no mere trappings. Beauty and elegance, whether in a woman or a work of art, is not something superficial, not just something pretty to look at.'' So opens his entry titled ''Success With Style.'' ''Style is what moves people, and style is what the best always have in spades.'' 
 That, and their name spelled out across skyscrapers in humongous bronze letters.
 On those occasions when he's not talking about himself, Mr. Trump takes on political and economic issues. He doesn't go too deep, though. After all, he's a busy man.
 Gas at $3 a gallon is ''just ridiculous,'' he declares in a recent 200-word post. What's to be done? ''I wish that the United States would just get on the ball with alternative energy.''
 How to pay for it? Divert money from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
 He envisions leaders of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ''just laughing as they continue to jack up the price per gallon.'' And if our political leaders weren't so ineffectual, they would stand up to OPEC and threaten ''to stop protecting all those countries.''
 ''Better yet,'' he writes, ''stop sending those politicians over there to negotiate. Send a true business leader -- someone who is used to tough bargaining -- and see how far he or she could get.''
 Hmmm. Which business leader could he possibly be thinking of? Steve Wynn, his fellow developer, maybe?
 FLICKRING LIGHTS -- Yahoo recently acquired Flickr, a once-independent community site for posting and sharing photos. Now, Yahoo, the Internet giant, is planning to force its users to join the Yahoo network to log on to the site. 
 Hundreds have protested, with many joining ''Flick Off,'' a Flickr page created to discuss the problem and to plan a ''mass suicide'' by deleting their identities rather than join Yahoo. 
 Stewart Butterfield, a Flickr founder, tried to assuage their concerns in a frequently-asked- questions-like blog entry laced with affected humor. Don't worry, he basically said, nothing will change except that you will have to log in using a Yahoo ID. The one concern he didn't address is the one that really bothers the Flickr Flock: They don't want any part of Yahoo. Flickr proudly evolved off the grid and out of the mainstream. Forcing members to join Yahoo is like forcing followers of the grrl group Sleater-Kinney to join the Dixie Chicks fan club.
 CENSOR OR CENSURE -- Business Week Online features a fascinating, if short, interview with Hu Zhiguang, founder of Blogcn, a leading provider of blog services in China, on www.businessweek.com. American bloggers may complain about comment spammers and flame wars, but at least they don't have to worry about ''the Internet police'' (at least, not yet). 
 Blogcn includes keyword filters in its software. So if a blogger tries to type in ''Falun Gong,'' for example, it will show up online as a string of asterisks. Bloggers try workarounds, but Mr. Hu says he stays on top of it. ''If it lasts on the site too long, then maybe it will make some trouble. Maybe I will have to go to the police station.''
 GIVE IT UP -- Bloggers have made a valiant effort to collect money for victims of Hurricane Katrina. Sadly, though, they remain stuck in ideological camps, often listing only charities they deem ''correct.'' But a nonpartisan ''wiki'' has been set up where charities can be found or added, at katrinahelp.info/wiki. DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); WEB SITES (76%); HURRICANES (74%); WEATHER (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); CENSORSHIP (60%); DIVESTITURES (60%); SUICIDE (50%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Katrina (Storm) ; Philanthropy; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Politics and Government; Colleges and Universities; Photography; Computers and the Internet; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computer Software; Censorship; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: Trump University (Web Site); Yahoo Inc; Flickr (Web Site); Business Week Online; Blogcn (Co)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%) Dan Mitchell; Hu Zhiguang; Donald J Trump

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005



59 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: September 4, 2005; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1302 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	 1		1	CHILL FACTOR, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A successful magazine editor is trapped in her remote cabin with a man believed to be a serial killer.		 	 	 	 2	1	127	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	 3	3	10	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	 4	2	6	LIFEGUARD, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) Things go terribly awry when a lifeguard at a Florida resort agrees to take part in a $5 million heist.		 	 	 	 5	6	2	SWEETWATER CREEK, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A troubled debutante's arrival at a Lowcountry plantation disrupts the world of the owner's motherless 12-year-old daughter.		 	 	 	 6	4	20	*THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Viking, $24.95.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is strongly attracted to a monk who is just months away from taking his final vows.		 	 	 	 7	9	5	THE UNDOMESTIC GODDESS, by Sophie Kinsella. (Dial, $23.) At her wit's end, a high-powered attorney decamps from London and winds up as an unqualified housekeeper in the middle of nowhere.		 	 	 	 8	5	5	THE INTERRUPTION OF EVERYTHING, by Terry McMillan. (Viking, $25.95.) At the age of 44, an unhappily married California woman discovers she's pregnant.		 	 	 	 9	8	5	NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN, by Cormac McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.95.) Mayhem ensues after a West Texas man stumbles upon $2 million in drug money -- and decides to keep it.		 	 	 	 10	10	6	UNTIL I FIND YOU, by John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) Tracing the experiences of a movie star named Jack Burns, whose life has revolved around his relationships with older girls and older women. 		 	 	 	 11	11	4	DOUBLE TAP, by Steve Martini. (Putnam, $26.95.) The lawyer Paul Madriani comes upon government secrets when he defends a soldier who is on trial for murder.		 	 	 	 12	7	2	*MATCH ME IF YOU CAN, by Susan Elizabeth Phillips. (Morrow, $24.95.) A Chicago matchmaker searches for a wife for a sexy sports agent.		 	 	 	 13		1	LUNAR PARK, by Brett Easton Ellis. (Knopf, $24.95.) A celebrated writer gives up drugs and moves to the suburbs with his family, only to have his life fall apart.		 	 	 	 14	12	98	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died trying to rescue a girl finds that all is explained in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 15		1	PIRATE, by Ted Bell. (Atria, $25.) The counterterrorist Alex Hawke must thwart a secret alliance between China and France.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	 1	4	13	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	 2	1	3	THE FAIRTAX BOOK, by Neal Boortz and John Linder. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A radio talk show host and a United States congressman call for the abolishment of the federal income tax and the I.R.S.		 	 	 	 3	3	20	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	 4	2	7	100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 	 	 5	6	4	NEW RULES, by Bill Maher. (Rodale, $24.95.) The comedian and host of ''Real Time With Bill Maher'' takes on everyone from President Bush to Bob Dylan.		 	 	 	 6	5	19	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	 7	7	32	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 8	8	8	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all memoir by a dancer and actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	 9	10	23	ON BULL / / / /, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	 10		1	INSIDE THE MIND OF SCOTT PETERSON, by Keith Ablow. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) Ablow, a forensic psychiatrist and frequent Court TV guest, analyzes the convicted murderer's troubled identity.		 	 	 	 11	9	2	FROM PIECES TO WEIGHT, by 50 Cent. (MTV Books/Pocket Books, $23.) The rapper's reflections on his youthful experience as a drug dealer and its continuing effect on his life.		 	 	 	 12	11	9	LANCE ARMSTRONG'S WAR, by Daniel Coyle. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) How the great cyclist won his sixth Tour de France in 2004. 		 	 	 	 13	14	47	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook.		 	 	 	 14		20	THREE NIGHTS IN AUGUST, by Buzz Bissinger. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) Three baseball games as seen through the eyes of the manager Tony La Russa.		 	 	 	 15	15	32	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Aug. 20, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

INDECISION, by Benjamin Kunkel. (Random House, $21.95.) This postmodern, posteverything, fresh and funny novel by a young writer seems to develop a nonironic social conscience.

THE GIRL IN THE GLASS, by Jeffrey Ford. (Dark Alley/HarperCollins, paper, $13.95.) A boys' adventure story dressed as a literary thriller about an orphan mentored by a con man.

CARNIVORE DIET, by Julia Slavin. (Norton, $23.95.) A monster stalks Washington and this parallel-universe tale's heroine must face it.

THE NAKED WOMAN: A Study of the Female Body, by Desmond Morris (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's. $25.95.) A noted zoologist proposes evolutionary reasons for sexual dimorphism.

ROOM FULL OF MIRRORS: A Biography of Jimi Hendrix, by Charles R. Cross. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The life of the guitar hero, ladies' man and motherless child who died at 27.

A WILD PERFECTION: The Selected Letters of James Wright. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $40.) Fine remains of a formidable poet and nice guy.

RACE DAY: A Spot on the Rail With Max Watman, by Max Watman. (Ivan R. Dee, $24.95.) A chronicle of memorable horses and races, recent and not, by a writer for The New York Sun.

BREAD AND ROSES: Mills, Migrants, and the Struggle for the American Dream, by Bruce Watson. (Viking, $24.95.) The strike that shut down Massachusetts textile mills in 1912.

WHEN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION WAS WHITE, by Ira Katznelson. (Norton, $25.95.) A scholar's argument that the New Deal and G.I. Bill were rigged to exclude blacks.

THE POPE'S DAUGHTER, by Caroline P. Murphy. (Oxford University, $28.) The life of Felice della Rovere, daughter to Pope Julius II and for 18 years regent of a vast Italian domain.

THE AMOROUS BUSBOY OF DECATUR AVENUE: A Child of the Fifties Looks Back, by Robert Klein. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) The comedian recalls the people and places that molded him into an unusual shape.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); WOMEN (89%); WRITERS (78%); HOMICIDE (72%); HISTORY (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); CELEBRITIES (65%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (79%); JAMES PATTERSON (53%); MITCH ALBOM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



60 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Not Bad Nation

BYLINE: By Anatol Lieven. 
Anatol Lieven is a senior research fellow at the New America Foundation and the author of ''America Right or Wrong: An Anatomy of American Nationalism.''

 BODY:

TAMING AMERICAN POWER
The Global Response
to U.S. Primacy.
By Stephen M. Walt.
320 pp. W. W. Norton &
Company. $27.95.
 The greatest value of ''Taming American Power,'' Stephen M. Walt's brilliant contribution to the American foreign policy debate, is that it places its readers in the minds of the leaders and citizens of other states, including the country's rivals. This is something that really ought to be among the most obvious duties of all foreign policy analysts.
 Actually, however, the ability to do this is extremely rare. Only a small proportion of analysts of Russia, for example, are capable of walking even a few yards in Russian shoes. In consequence, American assumptions have tended to swing wildly between a naively optimistic belief that Russians can quickly be turned into American-style democrats, and a crudely pessimistic, even racist belief that Russians are incorrigibly authoritarian and expansionist. The same switchback effect applies even more strongly to American thinking about the Muslim world. 
 Underlying both these attitudes is a conscious or unconscious belief in America's inherent goodness and benevolence. Too many Americans simply cannot understand why other nations might distrust the United States and be unwilling to follow its lead. The only possible explanations must be that they are either ill informed, in which case Washington must talk at them more loudly, or led by evil people, who must be destroyed. 
 Though he opposes both of these explanations, Walt, the Robert and Renee Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard's Kennedy School, does not fall into the other, left-wing error, of portraying the United States as inherently evil or aggressive. On the contrary, he stresses America's immense importance to the world as an example of successful pluralist democracy and free-market economics. And partly as a result of America's relatively good historical record, he observes, this means that many countries prefer Washington's hegemony to that of their neighbors.
 But as Walt points out, this does not mean the United States can simply ask other nations to entrust themselves to its domination without seeking guarantees for their own interests and safety. For example, when Americans call on others to trust in their desire to spread democracy, they have to remember that in the course of the 20th century Washington helped overthrow at least nine democratically elected governments. Latin Americans don't forget that.
 In place of the interventionist approach followed by the Bush administration, Walt advocates a strategy of ''offshore balancing,'' limiting direct American involvement as far as possible and relying instead on local alliances and the promotion of regional stability. Instead of rushing into commitments, the United States should ''play hard to get,'' waiting for other countries to seek its favor. With regard to Iran and North Korea, Walt recommends a grand bargain along the lines followed with Libya, offering guarantees of nonaggression and serious economic benefits in return for their abandonment of their nuclear programs.
 The most controversial part of the book is Walt's analysis of the role of national lobbies in the United States, particularly the Israeli lobby. Walt does not condemn this lobby for acting in Israel's interest. Lobbies exist to influence policy. But he does bring out just how damaging the results of Israeli influence have been, both in terms of direct harm to American interests and in creating Muslim perceptions of American bias, hostility and hypocrisy. ''It is one thing to pay a price for taking steps that are clearly in the U.S. national interest,'' he writes, ''but it is quite another matter to place U.S. security at risk doing something primarily on behalf of some other country.'' For raising this vital issue, on which so many others are silent, Walt deserves special thanks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); LITERATURE (72%); HISTORY (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL RESPONSE (84%)

PERSON: Anatol Lieven; Stephen M Walt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



61 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Driven

BYLINE: By Rich Lowry. 
Rich Lowry is the editor of National Review.

 BODY:

THE PEOPLE'S TYCOON
Henry Ford and the American Century.
By Steven Watts.
Illustrated. 614 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.
 HENRY FORD is one of the foremost inventors of our world. In ''The People's Tycoon: Henry Ford and the American Century,'' Steven Watts portrays Ford -- convincingly -- as not just a business genius but a cultural pioneer who heralded and exploited as no one had before the rise of an America that valued mobility, consumerism, leisure and image-making. Indeed, the implicit claim of Watts's admirable book is almost inarguable -- that it's impossible to understand 20th-century America without knowing the story of Henry Ford.
 He was born in 1863 on a farm near Dearborn, Mich., in the bosom of the traditional rural world he would help obliterate. Obsessed with repairing watches and with the mechanics of farm implements, he was fascinated in his teens by the sight of a self-powered steam engine, and acquired his interest in automotive transport at that moment. Significantly, he hated horses, and decades later would write with satisfaction in one of his notebooks, ''The horse is DONE.'' 
 While working as an engineer at the Edison Illuminating Company in Detroit in the 1890's, he poured himself into his private project of building an internal combustion engine and mounting it on a vehicle. Ford's first two automobile companies were busts. A perfectionist, he thirsted for total control, which didn't make for smooth business relationships. He was forced out of the Henry Ford Company in 1902. 
 His third try was the Ford Motor Company. When its officers split over whether it should focus on the market for a simple, inexpensive car or build fancier models, Ford had an insight that amounted to a flash of genius. As he explained to an associate in 1903, ''When you get to making the cars in quantity, you can make them cheaper, and when you make them cheaper you can get more people with enough money to buy them.'' On this virtuous circle, Ford built his company.
 The Model T was the ''universal car,'' combining, as Watts writes, ''light weight, durability and a low price tag to appeal to a mass audience of consumers.'' It initially sold for $850, and the price dropped steadily. Fifteen million would be produced in all, and in 1920 they represented almost half the cars in the United States. 
 Ford's success with the Model T was a testament to the power of monomania. His devotion to the car was total. In 1912, a few years after the advent of the Model T, company managers surprised Ford with a prototype of a sleeker car. He literally demolished it with his own hands. 
 The Model T rewired America. ''The automobile inspired street and road construction all over the country,'' Watts writes, ''stimulated suburban real-estate development and nourished the growth of new service businesses such as gas stations, tourism and roadside lodging.'' More important, it fomented a consumer revolution.
 ''Well, say, we're creating new wants in folks right along, aren't we?'' Ford explained. ''And we no sooner get those wants satisfied in one class of society than another class bobs up to present its needs and demands. The wants keep right on increasing, and the more wants the more business, isn't that so?'' Has there ever been a plainer expression of the dynamic of consumer capitalism?
 Scandalously for the time, Ford was an advocate of unabashed spending. ''No successful boy ever saved any money,'' he said in 1928. Early on the Ford advertising team approached him with a slogan, ''Buy a Ford and Save the Difference!'' Ford scratched out ''save'' and replaced it with ''spend.'' He sensed that old-fashioned rigid virtues were giving way to the allure of self-fulfillment and leisure. ''Every day is 'Independence Day' to him who owns a Ford,'' said the company's ad copy.
 The question became how to build enough. With the Ford assembly line, born in 1913, annual production promptly jumped from 82,000 cars to 189,000. It hit 585,000 by 1916, and two million in 1923. What workers lost in terms of autonomy, they gained, in Ford's view, in their ability to participate in the consumer bonanza. ''Assembly-line work meant more productivity, which brought higher wages, which provided more money for workers to enjoy material goods,'' Watts writes. Ford argued that with the famous Five-Dollar Day pay rate, announced in 1914, ''we really started our business, for on that day we first created a lot of customers.'' 
 It didn't hurt that the wage policy was tremendous publicity. Decades before Norman Mailer, Ford knew the power of advertisements for himself. Even Teddy Roosevelt complained that the celebrity automaker was overexposed. Company marketing materials presented a well-honed image. As Watts notes, ''By the early 1910's, nearly all stories on Ford stressed his rural background, simple style and modest material desires.''
 The story of Ford's rise is indeed exhilarating. The rest, perhaps inevitably, is a letdown. An inspired and playful innovator -- he once hot-wired a urinal in the company's early days to give a user an unexpected shock -- becomes a tiresome crank. On the stand in a libel suit, he said the American Revolution took place in 1812. His ignorance didn't stop him from spreading his homespun views -- often idiosyncratic, sometimes poisonous -- in books, interviews, his own newspaper and a 1918 senatorial campaign.
 He did himself irreparable harm in the early 1920's by publishing articles on the ''Jewish problem'' in his newspaper. His distaste for economic elites and financiers -- he was a capitalist who hated capital -- traveled with an old-fashioned anti-Semitism. Under pressure, he recanted the articles, but maintained his belief in the nefarious influence of Jews, who supposedly promoted world wars for their own profit. 
 As he aged, he lost his business touch. His devotion to the Model T became sclerotic as the market moved on. He harried his well-meaning, more refined son, Edsel, nominally president of the company, into an early grave. And he lost his reputation for fostering harmonious labor relations in the 1930's when his thugs beat up union organizers and tried to keep workers from committing the offenses of talking or smiling on the job. He hated the New Deal.
 There was always ambiguity in his attitude toward the changes he promoted, but by the end Ford had lapsed into full-blown nostalgia. He spent his final years until his death in 1947 accumulating objects from the 18th and 19th centuries. Watts, who has also written a biography of Walt Disney, thinks that this was part of his appeal: ''Ford became an American folk hero because he appreciated both the aspirations and the apprehensions of the American people as they struggled to enter the modern age.'' 
 It made for an odd mix. Today, it's hard to imagine who on the right or the left would have him, a union-breaking quasi pacifist, an opponent of Wall Street and Franklin Roosevelt, an anti-Semitic promoter of the dignity of workers. The roots of his rural populist worldview have long since been washed away. Although he personally opposed it, an accommodation was reached among big industry as represented by the Ford Motor Company and unions and government. It defined American business and politics in the postwar period. That world has, in turn, been upset by new innovators in the tradition of Ford, forging a leaner, meaner capitalism in the cause of greater productivity and lower prices.
 But much of what Ford created remains, most significantly the automobile, still America's most important consumer item, just as he imagined it would be. Steven Watts is intelligent, thorough and engaging -- if a touch long-winded -- in telling the story of an American who not only was influential but remains unavoidable to this day: with every contemporary advertisement promising personal fulfillment through the purchase of some new product, there breathes the spirit of Henry Ford.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry Ford and his son, Edsel, with the new Model A, 1928. (Photograph by Henry Ford Museum/from ''The People's Tycoon'')
 A Ford ad, 1922.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); LITERATURE (70%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); EDISON ILLUMINATING CO OF DETROIT (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: Rich Lowry; Henry (1863-1947) Ford; Steven Watts

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



62 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Maura McManimon, Conor Fennessy

 BODY:
Maura Killeen McManimon and Conor Gibson Fennessy were married yesterday in Pennington, N.J. James Palsir, a Roman Catholic deacon, performed the ceremony at St. James Church. 
 The bride, 35, is the executive director of the New Jersey Office of Smart Growth, a land-use agency in the Community Affairs Department in Trenton. She graduated from Georgetown University and received a master's degree in regional and urban planning from the London School of Economics. 
 She is the daughter of Christina and Edward McManimon of Pennington. The bride's father is a senior partner at McManimon & Scotland, a law firm in Newark. Her mother retired as the owner of the Book Peddlers Cafe, a Pennington bookshop.
 The bridegroom, 34, is the director of government affairs at the New Jersey Apartment Association in East Brunswick, which represents property owners, managers and developers. He graduated from Bates College.
 He is a son of Mary-Louise and Eamon Fennessy of Prides Crossing, Mass. His father is the chairman and chief executive of the Copyright Group in Beverly Farms, Mass., which arranges permissions for use of copyright material.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); RELIGION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); BOOKSTORES (68%); CITY LIFE (55%); CITIES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



63 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: The Breaking Point

 BODY:
 Another consequence of reaching ''peak oil'' is the debate it will surely provoke in the United States over whether we should avert the coming crisis by drilling in pristine lands and waters long considered off limits or by engaging in conservation and development of alternative fuel sources. Oil companies will argue that we have to save jobs and save the economy by squeezing those last drops from every forest and coastline. Environmentalists will have to go beyond aesthetic or ecological arguments and prove that job creation and economic growth come during times of great technological innovation.

Carrie Abels
Brattleboro, Vt.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); JOB CREATION (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (84%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (84%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (83%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (82%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: carrie abels; Peter Maass

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



64 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Little in the Middle

BYLINE: By David Dyssegaard Kallick. 
David Dyssegaard Kallick is a senior fellow at the Fiscal Policy Institute.

 BODY:
ON this Labor Day weekend, here's something to think about: New York City's middle class is shrinking. Once a solidly middle-class place, New York has become a city of rich and poor. 
 What's going on, in part, is a worrisome shift in the structure of the New York job market. The economic boom of the 1990's didn't do much to lift middle-income New Yorkers; people in the top 20 percent captured virtually all of the benefits of the go-go economy. In recent years, job gains in New York have been primarily in very high-wage positions -- like finance or professional services -- and in low-wage jobs in areas like food, social and health services. Ask well-heeled professionals how much typical New Yorkers earn a year and they will often say $80,000 to $100,000, yet the median family yearly income in the city, according to census data, is just $47,000 -- $7,000 below the national median. 
Businesses continue to slash the number of mid-level jobs. Just look at banking, where managers are being hit by consolidations, customer service representatives are being replaced by automation and middle managers are being pushed out of their jobs. And some city computer and other technology jobs have moved offshore. 
 The portion of families in the city making $35,000 to $150,000 a year -- a range that includes the middle class and then some -- is 53 percent in 2004, down three percentage points since 2000. Nationwide, it's 63 percent and fairly steady.
 What should we do?
 Rather than allowing so many of the new jobs created in today's economy to be dead-end jobs, the city should do what has worked so well in Las Vegas: design training programs matched to employment opportunities to help workers advance. Community colleges can gear training toward specific career ladders to allow workers to advance from busboy to waiter to manager, or from hotel cleaner to receptionist to customer service representative. 
 Improving the pay for low-wage jobs is another crucial step. Albany's decision last year to raise the minimum wage was the best single action the state could have taken to help low-income New Yorkers. And there is no reason that tourism jobs or teaching in a day care center should pay less than a solid living wage. Manufacturing jobs tend to be good jobs today, but they weren't in the early part of the 20th century -- it was unions that improved work conditions and wages. Unions can still make the difference (full disclosure: my organization, the Fiscal Policy Institute, gets some financial support from unions). Unionized office cleaners in New York typically make $38,000 a year and have health care, vacations and pensions, while the national average is $22,000. City policies can help unions grow by requiring companies that do business with the city to remain neutral if their workers want to join a union. The city also can improve job quality through measures like requiring that companies provide health benefits, as the City Council just did with a veto-proof majority for New York supermarket workers. 
 At the same time, the city should do more to hang on to the good jobs we already have. While the bulk of apparel production is bound to happen overseas, smart land-use policies can provide a space for small producers that work with retailers to respond quickly to the market. Similarly, it is counterproductive to let luxury condominiums displace thriving hotels -- and good hotel jobs.
 Report after report about the New York economy has recommended diversification. Yet city officials seem to have eyes mostly for high-end finance and media companies, luring them with subsidies and fancy new office developments. While such jobs are critical to the New York region, we should do more to encourage other types of companies to stay and grow here. Small start-ups that want to expand are squeezed out by the high price of office space, and businesses outside the favored sectors get little attention or resources from economic development officials. The city's economic development policies should focus on increasing the number of middle-class jobs, not just on real estate development. 
 A final piece of the puzzle is to encourage middle-income people who work in the city to live in the city. Nothing would do more to keep middle-class families in the city than developing more affordable housing and improving city schools. Mayor Bloomberg talks a good game on housing, but his expenditures to date are still far below levels during the Koch administration. And state officials have yet to resolve the Campaign for Fiscal Equity lawsuit, which would infuse a substantial amount of much-needed money into New York City schools. Both of these investments, made intelligently, would be repaid many times over by families who bring vitality and sustainability to the city economy.
 New York has strengths that make it a magnet for people and businesses from around the world. The energy that flows through this city could readily drive an engine that lifts families into a swelling and prosperous middle class. Today, however, that motor is driving us apart rather than pushing us forward together.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); FAMILY (76%); STATISTICS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); OFFSHORING (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (61%); CENSUS (54%); TOURISM (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Vocational Training; Labor

PERSON: David Dyssegaard Kallick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) Las Vegas (Nev); New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



65 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; ADVISORY: TRAVEL NOTES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Driving Is a Hard Bargain

BYLINE: By FAYE RAPOPORT

 BODY:
As gasoline prices hit record highs, travelers who rent cars are feeling a double whammy as many rental car companies have also raised their prices, and the cost of renting a car this fall will remain higher than it was last year.
 John Barrows, vice president for communications and public affairs of Cendant Car Rental Group, comprising the Avis and Budget companies, said that the higher cost of rental fleet cars caused an industrywide price increase of 5 percent this summer, and added that they will remain about 5 percent higher than they were last fall.
But even with rising gasoline prices (the average cost nationally for a gallon of regular was $2.61 at the end of August, and expected to increase further as Hurricane Katrina's impact on oil production in the Gulf of Mexico is felt), more people are driving. ''This time of year is very busy for leisure car demand, and we are seeing very robust demand,'' Mr. Barrows said. 
 The AAA estimates that 34.5 million Americans will travel 50 miles or more from home this Labor Day weekend, which would be 0.9 percent more than last year. Geoff Sundstrom, a AAA spokesman, said this rate of increase would not be as high as in recent years, but should still set a record for auto travel for a Labor Day weekend.
 Amy Ziff, editor at large for the Internet site Travelocity, said that some consumers still want specialty vehicles, like S.U.V.'s or minivans, and are renting them regardless of fuel costs. But she said Travelocity's other customers were renting more compact and economy vehicles. 
 ''People aren't not traveling because of these increased fuel costs,'' she said, ''but they are wondering where they can shave something off, because the money they can save will have to be put into that pump.'' FAYE RAPOPORT


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Jeff Chiu/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); US LABOR DAY (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); HURRICANES (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%) Automobiles; Renting and Leasing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Labor Day; Travel and Vacations; Roads and Traffic

COMPANY: AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (58%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (58%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (58%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (58%)

PERSON: Faye Rapoport

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



66 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Quitting? What to Know Before You Go 

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO. 
Workplace or career topics may be sent to ccouch@nytimes.com.

 BODY:

Q. You're thinking about leaving your job, but first you want to explore your company's postemployment benefits. Should you ask your boss about them?

A. Until the moment you hand over your resignation letter, it's best to keep your questions as subdued as possible, said Arlene Hirsch, a career counselor in Chicago. ''Just by asking questions of this nature, you can raise suspicions about your future plans and put yourself in an uncomfortable position,'' Ms. Hirsch said.

Q. Which benefits should you be concerned about?

A. In addition to compensating employees for unused sick and vacation days, some companies offer departing employees options such as continuing life insurance at their own expense and the ability to transfer money from defined-benefit pensions. By law, companies are required to allow employees to transfer tax-deferred savings plans to other accounts.
 In many cases, employees cannot claim employer-paid matching funds on retirement accounts until they have worked long enough to be ''vested'' in the company. Lonnie Pacelli, president of Leading on the Edge, a consulting firm in Sammamish, Wash., says that vesting periods vary by company and that it pays to be aware of the requirements.

Q. What about health insurance?

A. Under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986, employers with 20 or more employees who offer health care coverage are required to offer departing employees an opportunity to extend their health benefits. This law, known as Cobra, extends an employee's health benefits for up to 18 months beyond the last date of employment. The law says that employees have 30 days after their last day of work to request information about Cobra, and 60 more days after that to enroll. Employees must pay the premiums themselves, and premiums vary, depending on the kind of coverage your employer offers.

Q. Where should you begin your search for answers?

A. Terri Clark, director of human resources at the Art Institute of Las Vegas, suggests that you start with your company's employee handbook. Most companies distribute such handbooks during orientation for new employees, and update them periodically.
 Some companies have also put benefits information online or on corporate Intranets, she said. Generally, these supplement the handbook with links to information elsewhere, like the federal Labor Department's ''frequently asked questions'' page for Cobra, at dol.gov/ebsa/faqs/faq--consumer--cobra.html.

Q. Should you consult former colleagues who have left the company recently?

A. Sometimes the best resources are trustworthy friends. When Patrick Snow, a consultant in Bainbridge Island, Wash., decided to leave a corporate sales job in May, he called three friends to solicit advice about everything from continuing life insurance to cashing in unused vacation days. While the handbook offered general instructions for achieving these benefits, Mr. Snow's friends were able to provide him with specifics on whom to call, what to ask and how long the process would take.
 ''The employee handbook was good for a general overview, but it failed to answer some of my specific questions,'' said Mr. Snow, who left to start his own professional speaking business. ''Lucky for me, the information my buddies gave me enabled me to plan my exit strategy perfectly.''

Q. What are some other places to find reliable information?

A. For financial expertise, particularly questions about rolling over money in a 401(k), many employees turn to accountants and financial advisers.
 You can also ask questions directly of insurance companies and benefits administrators, sometimes through a hot line. Sally Sidwell, senior vice president for operations at Automatic Data Processing, a company in Roseland, N.J., that provides payroll services and manages corporate benefit packages, said her organization regularly received e-mail messages and phone calls from employees of client companies with specific questions about Cobra benefits.
 ''A lot of times employees will call us directly with simple questions like, 'What am I going to have to pay?' or 'What does this include?''' she said. ''We understand that leaving a job is stressful, and we just try to help as best we can.''

Q. Should you ever approach your company's human resources department with your concerns?

A. Human resources departments at some companies will respond gladly, even if you tell them you're thinking of leaving. But confidentiality is not required. With this in mind, Dana Law, an organizational development consultant in Bessemer, Ala., suggests corralling your curiosity, at least until you're certain you want to leave.
 ''Human resources professionals are there for employees, but it's also their job to worry about staffing levels,'' she said. ''If one department is running particularly short, or if a company is just looking to grow, these people have a responsibility to report any actions that seem suspicious of impending change.''
 At some point, it becomes discourteous not to tell your company that you're contemplating leaving. Unveiling your plans may also work to your advantage: if some benefits are negotiable -- payment for sick days, for instance -- Ms. Law notes that it is prudent for employees to be on cordial terms at the end.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); SICK LEAVE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (68%) Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: Matt Villano

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



67 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: The Meaning of Hard Work

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''O.K., Freshmen, It's Time to Study the Real World'' (Everybody's Business, Aug. 28), Ben Stein advises students to work hard, establish connections, make the right investments and marry -- and stay married to -- someone with like views.
He also says that had he started earlier in making the best investments, he could be retired and sailing lakes in northern Idaho -- a state where President Bush recently went fishing. I would like to invite either of them, next time they're in Idaho, to take a walk through my Boise neighborhood, where many children in the local school are getting free or reduced-price school breakfasts or lunches. Did parents of these children make unwise investments or indulge in the wasteful and costly practice of divorce? Could be. But it could also be that they are merely victims of an economic system where business values profit above all else.

Patricia R. Sweeney
Boise, Idaho, Aug. 29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (67%) Labor; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Patricia R Sweeney; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (90%) IDAHO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



68 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: The Prologue, and Maybe the Coda

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BARRY. 
John M. Barry of the Center for Bioenvironmental Research at Tulane and Xavier Universities is the author of ''Rising Tide,'' about the 1927 Mississippi flood, and ''The Great Influenza.''

 BODY:
I CALLED my home in New Orleans Wednesday to listen to the phone ring. I didn't call for messages, knowing that without power the answering machine had not taken any. I called to connect to my home. No neighbors remained to talk to. The few who had remained through the storm and through the first part of the week had finally gone. Listening to the ring, imagining it echoing through the silent house, its sound waves caressing so much that I loved and so much of my life, I was reluctant to hang up. It seemed as if hanging up meant abandoning my home and my city, as if I were holding onto it, and hanging up meant letting it all go.
 What we are seeing is well beyond the worst natural disaster in American history. We will never know the exact death toll, the direct monetary loss will easily exceed that of any other disaster, and the entire population of the New Orleans metropolitan area and much of the Gulf Coast will soon be scattered across much of the country. 
We may also be seeing the virtual destruction of one of the world's great cities as well. In a way, though, that seems the least of the thing, and less important each day. The initial inability of local or national government to respond, our own impotence and rage over events, and the worst of it, the rapid descent into chaos -- more like Baghdad or Mogadishu than an American city -- each one of these things may be more disturbing than the heart-song of the loss.
 How did it come to this, and where does it go? 
 Geology and economics answer part of the first question. 
 All the land in the Mississippi River's flood plain from Cape Girardeau, Mo., to the Gulf of Mexico -- more land than Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Hampshire and Vermont combined -- was created by the deposit of sediment by the river. 
 New Orleans itself was located at a point particularly conducive to commerce, and the first areas settled were relatively high ground (and remain dry today). Levees, which go back to the Tigris and Euphrates, had long been in use to control floods, and also helped guarantee a shipping channel; until 1928 virtually all federal money for levees was justified by the river's role in interstate commerce.
 This effort was, in effect, to channel the river, and it has largely succeeded. Levees have contained all floods on the lower Mississippi -- which routinely carries triple the amount of water in the river at St. Louis -- since 1927. Then canals and pipelines were cut through the marsh below New Orleans to make shipping and energy production more efficient. New Orleans benefited from all this, but not as much as Midwest agriculture exporters or steel importers, which enjoyed cheaper freight, or the entire nation, which enjoyed the oil and gas pumped out of the gulf.
 But only south Louisiana has suffered from the trade-offs. No floods meant that the river no longer replenished the land each year with silt, so south Louisiana parishes began to sink. And the canals cutting through the marsh accelerated erosion. The result: the equivalent of the island of Manhattan disappears every 10 months. That explains the physical vulnerability of south Louisiana today. It does not answer the most disturbing question: How has New Orleans come so close to collapse? For what we are witnessing bears no resemblance to what has happened in the past.
 Before this, the flood on the Mississippi River in 1927 was doubtless the most terrible American disaster. In one obvious way, it eerily foreshadowed today's. For one thing, New Orleans officials loudly warned that a disaster was waiting to happen, and condemned Washington for ignoring them, just as last week's devastation was widely predicted. 
 The scope of the 1927 devastation also resembled today's. No one knows the death toll. The official government figures said 500, but one disaster expert said more than 1,000 in Mississippi alone. The homes of roughly one million people, nearly 1 percent of the entire population of the country, were flooded. The Red Cross fed 667,000 people for months, some for a year; 325,000 lived in tents, some sharing an eight-foot-wide levee crown with cattle, hogs and mules, with the river on one side and the flood on the other. 
 Even amid that horror, as in other natural disasters, people responded by bonding together. Goodness emerged. The fault lines of race and class melted away with the levees, and the commonality of the burden that victims shared created a sense of common humanity. But as days dragged into weeks, honor and money collided, white and black collided, regional and national power structures collided. The collisions cracked open the fault lines and caused America to stagger and shift as well.
 As a result, Americans rethought the responsibility the federal government had toward individual citizens. The government had felt little such responsibility. In 1905, a yellow fever epidemic struck New Orleans. Scientists knew how to fight yellow fever, and the Army had completely eliminated the disease from Havana. Yet, before the Public Health Service would come to New Orleans to save the lives of Americans, the city had to raise $250,000, in advance, to cover the expenses. Americans accepted this. 
 But in 1927, even after the expansion of government during the Progressive Era and World War I, not a single federal dollar went to feed, clothe or shelter any of the 667,000 being fed by the Red Cross. (Indeed, the Army even demanded reimbursement from the Red Cross for use of its field kitchens and tents.) Americans did not accept this. Overwhelmingly they expressed a new belief that the government should help the flood victims and, by implication, other individuals in distress through no fault of their own. This represented an enormous shift in public attitudes.
 The flood left other legacies almost as significant. It sent hundreds of thousands of blacks out of the flooded territory to Chicago, Detroit and Los Angeles. Enormous positive publicity created the presidential candidacy and guaranteed the election of Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover, who had been in charge of the rescue effort. 
 Yet his subsequent betrayal of the national African-American leadership and African-American refugees snapped the emotional bond black voters felt for the G.O.P., the party that freed the slaves, beginning the shift to the Democratic Party. 
 The flood also left a legacy directly relevant to today. It led to the passage of the 1928 Flood Control Act, which was the most expensive bill Congress had ever passed, exceeded only by the cost of the Civil War and World War I. That same bill set a precedent redefining the relationship between the federal and state governments, and for the first time gave the federal government full responsibility for flood control along the lower Mississippi and many tributaries.Today we face a disaster even greater than the one in 1927, and for all the similarities a single difference between now and not only 1927 but the other natural disasters is most striking.
 That sense of common humanity, of a shared burden, did not dominate the immediate aftermath of Katrina. Why not? 
 It is understandable that when no market or restaurant is open to sell food and water, people break into them to survive. As things escalate, some people go the next step and become looters. Once order begins to break down it is difficult to redraw the line. But how to comprehend the hell, the breakdown of society, the snipers shooting at hospitals, shooting at helicopters trying to evacuate people?
 Yet perhaps this explains it: This disaster was not a common burden. 
 Many people who stayed in New Orleans chose to. But many, and probably most, of those who remained either paid too little attention to the warnings or would have gotten out if they could. 
 Once the levee gave way things deteriorated instantly. Communications between rescue personnel, between government officials became almost impossible. Things soon became so bad a senior aide to the mayor broke into an Office Depot to commandeer communication and computer equipment to rebuild a command post when water knocked out the original one.
 The population, without power, had no information from television or radio. 
 Troops are finally taking control of what may never again be called the Big Easy. Midwest farm exports still need cheap freight to compete in the world market, and the nation still needs the oil and gas from the gulf; moving that infrastructure and building new refineries would cost billions and take years. If -- a major if -- the existing plan to reverse the coastal erosion will work, then it and the cost of protecting the city against hurricanes may well pass even a cost-benefit test. 
 But past the question of rebuilding this city, my home, will this disaster leave an imprint like the 1927 flood? Will it cause the world to change the way it engages the environment? Will it cause Americans to think about the role of government and this newly seething underclass? 
 I don't know. On Thursday, I tried to call my house once again, to listen to the phone ring. I could not. The phone no longer works.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Survival, 1927 -- At Hamburg, La., flood victims lived on a levee. Herbert Hoover, then the commerce secretary, with War Secretary Dwight Davis and a few of the 325,000 refugees who were housed in tents. (Photo by Library of Congress)
 (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANES (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); RIVERS (86%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (84%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (69%); FLOOD ZONES (68%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (63%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); HISTORY (54%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Disasters; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

PERSON: John M Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New Orleans (La); Mississippi River

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



69 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Where the ABC's Are Subsidized by B-I-N-G-O 

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
Msgr. John Servididio was dismayed to inform the parents at St. Joseph parochial school on Staten Island that tuition had to go up this year, by 11 percent, more than triple the rate of inflation.
 On the other hand, things could be a lot worse. It was the first increase at St. Joseph in at least 34 years. Tuition, formerly $540, now stands at $600. Per year. 
''Thank God for the bingo,'' said Monsignor Servididio, the pastor of the Church of St. Joseph. 
 At a time when many Roman Catholic elementary schools around the city are being forced to price themselves out of the reach of lower-income families or to close outright in the face of falling enrollment, St. Joseph, a neat brick haven in a blue-collar neighborhood near the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, survives in a tuition time warp.
 And the bingo game that takes over the school cafeteria one morning and one night a week is a major part of the equation. 
 The Archdiocese of New York recommends that tuition and fees cover 80 percent of the cost of running a school, with supplements of 10 percent each from the collection plate and from fund-raisers like bingo. 
 At St. Joseph, on St. Mary's Avenue in Rosebank, less than half the money comes from tuition and fees. About a third comes from fund-raisers, the largest of them bingo, which generates about $120,000 a year. The rest comes from the collection plate --again, more than the norm. Monsignor Servididio, 78, has made it his mission to keep a Catholic education affordable.
 ''I come from a family of eight, and the only vacation my father ever took was his last two weeks in the hospital, dying,'' he said. ''I promised myself if I ever became a pastor I would help parents, and not bury them, and assist them in any way I can.''
 A year at St. Joseph, whose enrollment this year is 220, costs a fraction of the average annual tuition in the archdiocese, $2,700 (and about as much as a week at an elite private school in Manhattan).
 Of course, sacrifices have to be made. The children cannot have lunch in the cafeteria or go outside for recess on Wednesdays because the tables are occupied by grown-ups clutching bingo markers, and the schoolyard is covered with their cars.
 To get the low tuition, the parents must assist at 10 bingo sessions, including two in the summertime, and at the Christmas fair and the May feast. 
 Many other Catholic schools have similar work incentives, but at St. Joseph the difference between tuition for parents who assist and those who don't is unusually large. Nonvolunteers now pay $2,500, more than quadruple the rate paid by those who help. 
 The reasoning was simple, said the principal, Linda Bilotti. ''We needed people to work the bingo,'' she said. 
 The women running the tables last Wednesday, the last morning of bingo before the start of school this week, seemed to be enjoying themselves immensely as they joked and needled each other and the regular customers.
 ''I don't mind working,'' said Tara Vega, 33, who has three children in the school, entitling her to a considerable volume discount. She pays $340 per child. 
 And the bingo players, most of whom are not parishioners, are happy to take their chances on the percolating Ping-Pong balls with the black numbers written on them.
 ''I don't mind donating my money to the church,'' Sue Deliteris, whose display of tabletop good-luck charms included Homer, the Home Depot mascot, and a small cheese grater, said during a break. ''If you enjoy doing it and you enjoy the company you're with, that's fine.''
 The archdiocese does not object to the parish's unconventional school-financing formula, either. 
 ''If he's able to do that and it doesn't cause him to have a church that's falling down or to be coming to the archdiocese looking for a huge subsidy for his parish, then it's O.K.,'' said Joseph Zwilling, the archdiocesan spokesman.
 Some of Monsignor Servididio's staff members do find the game's dominance a bit draining. 
 ''Ninety percent of my life is spent on bingo,'' said the church's longtime bookkeeper, Hildegard Miro, as she tended one of the tables. ''Monday morning we start shopping for bingo,'' she said, referring to the bakery foray for the pastry the church sets out. ''Bingo bingo bingo.'' 
 Her daughter Michelle Scognamillo, the school's director of operations, who was doubling as the bingo cashier, recalled that it had always been so.
 ''What about the time I had to go to the hospital to have emergency surgery and you couldn't even be there because you had to run the bingo?'' she reminded her mother. ''But I understood.''
 Truth be told, Monsignor Servididio has never been crazy about the game, even though he says he was the first priest in the city to obtain a bingo license after the game was legalized in 1959.
 ''I was blasted in every paper,'' he said. ''My mother called me and said, 'John, are you sure you did the right thing?'''
 In 1986, Cardinal John O'Connor said churches should try to find a ''dignified substitute'' for revenue from bingo. But no one has come up with one.
 Inside the cafeteria, a hush fell over the crowded room as the next game began. Sixty numbers later, the caller, Trisha Forster, spoke the magic syllables ''I-17.'' A board was filled. A hand, belonging to an elderly woman with brown hair and a big smile, shot up.
 Ms. Forster waited as the woman's numbers were verified.
 ''That's a winner,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bingo players take over the cafeteria at St. Joseph parochial school every Wednesday -- and pay a large part of the school's expenses.
Charlotte Glazewski keeps track of the numbers at a bingo game at St. Joseph parochial school on Staten Island, where a board on the wall helps players keep track of the action. One player put winnings atop a bingo card. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); TUITION FEES (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%) Education and Schools; Bingo; Private and Sectarian Schools; Finances; Tuition; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Andy Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



70 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Legislative Agenda Turned Upside Down by Hurricane

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Congress returns in full force on Tuesday to confront a legislative agenda turned on its head by the devastation resulting from Hurricane Katrina and a rise in gasoline prices accelerated by the storm.
 Leaders of both the House and Senate said initiatives to try to ease the blow of the hurricane on both the reeling Gulf Coast and across the nation would take precedence when Congress officially ended its five-week recess. A handful of lawmakers returned on Thursday and Friday to approve $10.5 billion in emergency money.
''We will raise the Katrina disaster as top priority for the House,'' said Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority leader. 
 Mr. DeLay and other Congressional officials said the legislative proposals could be as narrowly tailored as a plan to allow Louisiana's federal courts to meet elsewhere and as sweeping as new legislation to rebuild battered oil refineries to bolster the nation's gasoline supplies.
 They see a monumental job ahead, with the need not only to reconstruct damaged infrastructure, but also to find ways to transport crops and commodities that typically move through New Orleans. A national economic stimulus bill is also possibile.
 ''Congress is going to have to look at all of these problems very carefully, and we've got to craft legislation that will fit this catastrophe,'' said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and a leader of the Congressional Black Caucus. ''This is going to be a lot of work.''
 Committees in both houses are also scheduled to hold hearings into reasons and possible remedies for the rising cost of gasoline, a development that was stirring public complaints to lawmakers even before the storm sent prices soaring and left motorists idling in lines at gas stations for the first time in decades.
 Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said that as part of the review, lawmakers would also explore whether oil companies were running up prices far beyond what could be justified by the supply problem.
 ''We want to make sure the whole gouging issue doesn't take off and we can maintain credible energy distribution throughout this country,'' Mr. Hastert said.
 The promise to revisit energy legislation comes only weeks after Congress broke a protracted stalemate and passed broad energy legislation that rejected efforts to curb oil consumption and dependence on foreign sources. 
 ''This shows just how backward and meaningless the energy bill was,'' said Anna Aurilio, legislative director for the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, which had argued that Congress use the bill to cut oil use.
 The new legislative agenda is a stark turn from what had been anticipated for fall. Before the hurricane, lawmakers and others had expected September to be consumed by Senate confirmation hearings for Judge John G. Roberts Jr., the first Supreme Court nominee in a decade. Those hearings are still scheduled to begin Tuesday, but much of Congress's attention will shift to the aftermath of the storm.
 The emphasis on the storm also carried a political undertone. Given strong criticism over the initial federal response in helping the stricken communities, members of Congress want to show they are doing their best to take the storm seriously, particularly with midterm elections coming next year. 
 Both houses are planning investigations into what went wrong with the recovery effort. The Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs is planning to start its inquiry as soon as Wednesday.
 Republicans, already facing questions about Iraq and the price of fuel, do not want to see the storm response develop into another divisive issue, and Mr. Hastert quickly backtracked from his comments questioning the wisdom of rebuilding New Orleans.
 But Senate Republicans indicated they might still proceed in the coming days with a proposal to repeal the estate tax, a plan that Democratic lawmakers said was inappropriate given the crisis in New Orleans and the adjacent region.
 ''I can't imagine there is a Democrat in the Senate who wants to do the estate tax, which affects a couple of thousand people when, as we speak, we have people still trapped in the convention center,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said.
 Mr. Reid noted that the two Democratic senators from Hawaii had already agreed to postpone scheduled action on a measure regarding Native Hawaiians, an important measure for their state.
 A spokeswoman for Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, said that while any debate could be interrupted for hurricane-related issues, the Senate would continue to press ahead.
 ''We think it is important to let the nation know we can conduct business here,'' said the spokeswoman, Amy Call, who said the final agenda would be set once lawmakers returned to Capitol Hill.
 The need to deal with the storm's aftermath will take its toll on the legislative calendar and probably delay action on some major initiatives, like changes in immigration law, rules governing stem cell research and perhaps even the proposed overhaul of Social Security.
 Lawmakers also need to dispose of most of the annual spending measures and a pending military policy bill. They still plan to take up a budget measure that would extend some of President Bush's tax cuts while reducing future spending on health care for the poor and some education programs, proposals likely to encounter stiff resistance.
 Given the amount of potential business, Congressional leaders said they now expected that the session could extend until Thanksgiving. The session is officially scheduled to end on Sept. 30, but it is often extended a few weeks beyond. 
 ''We will be hitting the ground running next Tuesday and be very active,'' Mr. DeLay said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ken Becker of the Wilson Conservation Club in Brooklyn, steam cleaning a statue of Lew Wallace of Indiana. Congress returns on Tuesday. (Photo by David Y. Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); GASOLINE (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); APPROVALS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); JUDGES (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); CONSUMPTION (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods

PERSON: ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (59%); JOHN ROBERTS (54%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



71 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Community Forestry Bids To Preserve Scenic West

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: OVANDO, Mont. 

 BODY:
When the Plum Creek Timber Company decided to sell its 88,000 acres in the mountain-ringed Blackfoot Valley near here in 2003, ranchers, conservationists and other locals worried that a crop of new houses would sprout. Dependent on the forest and mountains to make a living and for hunting and fishing, they formed a nonprofit group mostly made up of area residents to buy the land. 
 In a complex deal that will be complete in 2007, they are selling parts of the land to federal land agencies, to ranchers and to other private owners with strict easements on it. Combined with other easements, the agreement will keep more than 100,000 acres undeveloped. The group, called the Blackfoot Challenge, will keep 5,400 acres.
''Our goal is to maintain a large intact landscape and the character of our valley,'' said Hank Goetz, a retired forestry professor from the University of Montana. 
 The interest of local people in managing the neighboring woods for their benefit is known as community forestry, part of a growing international trend. A 2002 report by Forest Trends and the Center for International Environmental Law found that since the early 1990's the number of acres under some form of direct community management had doubled in the Southern Hemisphere, the only region that was studied. 
 ''It's a dramatic new model for forest management,'' said Jeff Campbell, senior program manager for environment and development at the Ford Foundation, which has given $25 million to finance community forestry in the United States over the last five years.
 In community forestry, traditional opponents like environmentalists and loggers often join to fight a common enemy, for example subdivisions, absentee landowners or the decline of a local economy. The concept has been embraced by the Bush administration, which held a conference on what is known as cooperative conservation in late August in St. Louis. 
 ''It's a new way of doing business,'' said Kathleen Clarke, director of the Bureau of Land Management, who toured the Blackfoot project in August. ''Ours is not a command-and-control operation. It acknowledges that the best hope of being stewards is to pull together folks who live on these lands with the federal agencies.''
 The idea, however, worries some environmentalists, who see it as a way for industry to co-opt environmental protections. It could, they say, lead to the sale of public lands.
 ''It's Sagebrush Rebellion light,'' said John Horning, executive director of Forest Guardians, an environmental group in Santa Fe, N.M., referring to an effort in the 1980's by some Western politicians to persuade the federal government to turn over federal land to the states. ''It's sinister and it's frightening, because it comes at the same time federal environmental safeguards on public lands are being dismantled to allow logging, mining, and oil and gas development.''
 Community forests have long been a part of the landscape in Europe, Canada and elsewhere, and there are ''town forests'' in New England. Community forestry is different. It means that a community may or may not own the forest, but it recognizes that community members have a stake in what happens around them and gives different interest groups a voice in management. 
 ''Part of it's fear,'' said Frank Reed, director of development for the New England Forestry Foundation, which is working to protect 342,000 acres of forest in Maine called the Down East Lakes. ''People living in rural areas are worried about the cities advancing on them.'' 
 That is part of what drove the Blackfoot Challenge. Subdivisions are one of the biggest environmental threats in the West. So The Nature Conservancy is buying conservation easements on existing ranches, and with that money the ranchers buy the land newly acquired from the timber company. By the time the deal, involving dozens of transactions, is complete, much will be preserved as it is today.
 But a major component of community forestry is that the protection is not like creating a park; it allows traditional uses of the land that benefit the local economy to continue as long as they meet community-set environmental standards.
 The cobblestone-studded Blackfoot is the river made famous by Norman Maclean's novel ''A River Runs Through It.'' But the movie version of the book was not filmed here. When Robert Redford came to scout the location, there were so many clear-cuts, he said, that they had to film elsewhere.
 That is one thing the Blackfoot Challenge hopes to change. It will allow logging, which will keep a local sawmill and loggers in business, but with guidelines that protect wildlife, water quality and scenic values. 
 In the West, these kinds of collaboration often involve vast tracts of federal land, which is intermingled with private land, as is the case here. Ms. Clarke and other federal officials vow to work with local communities on these kinds of projects. To enable the Blackfoot project, for example, the Bureau of Land Management has bought 3,640 acres and will buy more than 20,000 more. 
 One large experiment in cooperative management is on the 89,000-acre Valles Caldera National Preserve, a cattle ranch just west of Los Alamos, N.M., which the federal government bought in 2000 for $101 million. The government wanted to protect the scenic area but not simply turn it into a park. It set up a nine-member board of presidential appointees, who represent a variety of interests, including agriculture, wildlife and history. 
 ''It's the most open process I've ever witnessed in terms of getting people's views and managing land,'' said Ray Powell, a former New Mexico state land commissioner and the departing director of the preserve. ''It has worked here.''
 Mr. Horning, however, contends that the preserve board has not enforced environmental standards when it comes to livestock grazing. ''As result, every single stream is polluted and violating state water quality standards,'' he said. 
 Mr. Powell denies that cattle are the problem. Water quality is not what it should be, he said, largely because of historic timber clear-cutting. After a rain, he said, soil is washed into the streams. ''We're bringing the stream quality to a level that will surpass what it has been," he said. 
 Ms. Clarke, the B.L.M. director, said cooperative management would not change the federal mission to manage land for all Americans. ''It doesn't relieve the agencies of their laws or mandates,'' she said. 
 In Eastern forests, the issues are different. Out-of-state timber and real estate interests are buying forests and depriving local communities of their use. 
 In 2000, the Ford Foundation financed 10 community forest projects in New England. One was the Vermont Family Forest Partnership, an effort to involve low- and moderate-income people who had lost their jobs. With modest investments, 16 people are buying shares in a 120-acre forest plot. They can hike and hunt on the land, and as the project moves forward the land will be logged and the owners may do the work and will share in the profits.
 But even collaborative decisions can run afoul of the powers that be. In the 1990's millworkers, timber company officials and environmentalists negotiated for seven years to devise a plan to reintroduce grizzlies into the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness Area in Idaho and Montana. But the agreement was vetoed by Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton at the request of Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho. 
 Such actions ''become a problem,'' Mr. Kemmis said, ''because you can't ask people to go back to the table over and over again.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Massee cutting hay on a Blackfoot Valley ranch near Ovando.
 The Blackfoot River, inspiration for the novel ''A River Runs Through It,'' meanders through the Blackfoot River Valley outside Ovando, Mont. (Photographs by Anne Sherwood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); TRENDS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Forests and Forestry; Land Use Policies; Logging Industry; Forests and Forestry

COMPANY: PLUM CREEK TIMBER CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (56%); CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (55%)

TICKER: PCL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS113310 LOGGING (91%); SIC2411 LOGGING (91%); SIC0811 TIMBER TRACTS (91%)

PERSON: Jim Robbins

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Blackfoot Valley (Mont)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



72 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Scrutiny for a Local Specialty, Hedge Funds

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
HEDGE funds exist in a financial nether world, where nobody knows just exactly how many there are or how much money they are gaining or losing. But the possible collapse of the Bayou Group, a $400 million Stamford firm being investigated by federal and state authorities, has turned a spotlight onto the insular universe of Connecticut hedge funds.
 The funds are private investment partnerships that cater to institutions and wealthy investors, and they have become an issue here because Connecticut has become a center of the hedge fund industry, where a miniature version of Wall Street has sprouted in Fairfield County. Of the estimated $1 trillion invested in these type of funds, about a third of that, or $300 billion, is being managed in Connecticut, according to the Connecticut Hedge Fund Association. 
''Many of the managers already live in this physically beautiful state,'' Bruce McGuire, president of the fund association, wrote in an e-mail message. ''With advances in technology, many of these professionals have realized that they no longer need to put up with the two-hour per day commute to the congestion of Manhattan.
 ''Connecticut is fast becoming the hedge fund capital of the world,'' he wrote. He also noted that another attraction was the state's income tax rate, up to 5 percent compared with New York City's and state's combined rate of 11.34 percent.
 And while that has benefited the state in both tax revenue and prestige, it has also created a problem that Connecticut shares with other states and the federal government: Hedge funds are largely unregulated. This has led to a nationwide nervousness among regulators, made worse by cases like Bayou. 
 Indeed, Richard Blumenthal, the state attorney general, said on Wednesday that state officials were creating a task force to look into reforms that would increase regulation and oversight of the hedge fund industry. ''This problem has been evident for some time,'' Mr. Blumenthal said Wednesday. ''There have been a series of hedge fund failures, as the number of investors has exploded exponentially. These hedge funds are no longer for the sophisticated, wealthy investor. They have marketed and appealed to the general public, and there need to be strong protections for the investing public.''
 But reforms require information, and there is little on hedge funds. Even law enforcement agencies are still figuring out what hedge funds do and how they do it. The United States Attorney's Office in Connecticut formed a securities and investor fraud task force about two years ago that included the state's Department of Banking, the Chief State's Attorney's Office and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 ''We're increasingly looking at hedge funds because of their increasing prominence here in Connecticut,'' said Kevin O'Connor, the United States attorney for Connecticut. ''That does not mean that we have a belief at the start that there's a problem with hedge funds, but we have seen enough issues that it merits a closer examination than we have given in the past.''
 In February 2006, the S.E.C. will require firms with more than $30 million or more in assets to designate a chief compliance officer, adopt a written code of ethics and provide audited financial statements to the agency and investors. 
 The national Hedge Fund Association defines hedge funds as any unregistered, privately-offered managed pool of capital for wealthy, financially sophisticated investors. Lately, they have been attracting smaller investors, who pool their cash into funds that invest in hedge funds, known as ''fund of funds.''
 With growth has come some fraud. In a Connecticut case in June, a New York University student, Hakan Yalincak, and his mother, Ayferafet Yalincak, were charged with defrauding investors out of $7 million in a group of hedge funds and companies Mr. Yalincak ran from a Greenwich office.
 Another fund, the now-defunct Lancer Group that had offices in Greenwich, had its assets frozen by the S.E.C. in July 2003 after the agency charged that the firm overstated the value of its holdings and defrauded investors.
 The State Department of Banking just closed a case against Eddie Papic, the manager of Criterion Investment Capital, a Greenwich hedge fund. The department said Mr. Papic had failed to disclose information to investors, including his previous declaration of bankruptcy, and that he ran Criterion even though he was not registered as an investment adviser in the state. He was fined $40,000.
 Probably the most notorious hedge fund collapse was also in Connecticut, when the Federal Reserve in 1998 had to organize a rescue of Long-Term Capital Management, a Greenwich hedge fund that managed so much money that the government feared that the economy would be harmed if the firm failed.
 In the state's most recent hedge fund case, the Bayou Group told its investors that it was closing and that money would be wired to their accounts in mid-August. But the money did not appear. 
 Connecticut is second only to New York in its hedge fund assets, said Kevin Quirk of Casey, Quirk & Associates, a Darien company that advises investment management firms. He said some of the largest were Pequot Capital of Westport, Bridgewater Associates in Westport, and the Tudor Investment Corporation in Greenwich.
 Another hedge fund, ESL Investments of Greenwich, and its principal, Edward Lampert, received more than its share of attention when Mr. Lampert bought control of the retail giant Kmart in bankruptcy court two years ago. During the negotiations, Mr. Lampert was kidnapped from the parking garage at his firm. He was subsequently released on the side of a Greenwich road.
 State officials said hedge funds have gone largely unregulated because their very nature attracts sophisticated investors, who understand the risks involved.
 ''Certainly, the fact that they are not regulated is going to make it more difficult to readily access information,'' Mr. O'Connor said. ''The funds are not filing regular reports that can be reviewed online. Some people think that's a good thing because they're catering to a more sophisticated investor, but that's a debate that goes beyond my paycheck. On the one hand, they should not be regulated because they're catering to a more sophisticated investor, and the need to protect that investor is not as strong. On the other hand, they should be regulated because potential fraud is there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bayou Group, a $400 million firm now under investigation by state and federal authorities, has operated from leafy environs in Stamford. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LAWYERS (77%); BONDS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INCOME TAX (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds

ORGANIZATION: Bayou Group ; Connecticut Hedge Fund Assn

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (56%) Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (98%) Connecticut; Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



73 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: The Sub Fight Below the Surface

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
WHEN supporters of the submarine base in Groton fought to keep it open after the Pentagon recommended in May that it close, they attacked on several fronts. They developed detailed briefing books that showed that the region would be devastated economically, that environmental cleanup costs would be enormous, and that the base did not get a fair shake in the Pentagon review.
 But when the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, the panel studying the issue, voted 7 to 1 on Aug. 24 to keep the base open, little of that mattered. What grabbed the attention of the committee was the issue of national defense. Closing the Groton base, officially known as the Naval Submarine Base New London, would weaken the United States, it said.
''Emerging regional threats that we face in the world today leave uncertain the force structure of nuclear powered submarines in the future,'' said Anthony J. Principi, the commission chairman. ''We close New London down, we will never get it back. I think it would be a tragic mistake, a tragic loss to this nation, if this recommendation was to be approved.'' 
 Commissioners said their vote was a result of overwhelming evidence that the nation could not afford to lose the submarine-warfare expertise at the base and that some day the Navy might need more submarines, and they could end up in Groton.
 Vice Adm. Albert H. Kontezni Jr., retired, a former commander of the Pacific submarine fleet, lobbied the commission to save the Groton base.
 ''Every one of those commissioners tried to understand the arguments that by closing those two installations you could relegate the submarine force to a much smaller size,'' he said, referring to Groton and to the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Me. ''At the end of the day, I think it was the security arguments that carried it. ''
 The Pentagon had proposed closing or consolidating 62 major military bases and 775 smaller installations. By its estimates, the closures would have saved $48.8 billion and made the remaining installations more efficient. The commission has since approved the closing of such venerable institutions as the Walter Reed Army Medical Center, while rejecting Pentagon recommendations on Groton and the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.
 In an interview following the commission's vote, Mr. Principi said the importance of the Groton base was highlighted in testimony, letters and personal encounters with the political and military officials, including a host of retired Navy admirals.
 ''People whose opinions I respect very much convinced me it was the right thing to do,'' he said. ''And when it's the right thing to do, it's an easy decision to reach. I understand there is excess capacity, particularly pier space. But it's difficult for me to understand why San Diego, for instance, might have a higher military ranking than New London.''
 ''We gave it a lot of thought over the last several weeks,'' Mr. Principi said. ''Believe me, there were a lot of painstaking discussions and deliberations on this recommendation.''
 Adm. Carlisle A.H. Trost, retired, a submariner who was chief of naval operations from July 1986 to June 1990, said he saw the decision as an endorsement of the importance of submarines. He said the Navy needs to double the production rate from one submarine a year, to two.
 ''I'm hoping it means the base is free and clear for years to come, and I hope it means the submarine force will enjoy a bit of resurgence,'' Admiral Trost said. ''The fact that the force is slowly shrinking away doesn't concern people the way it should.''
 In fact, some of the commissioners said they were worried that the Pentagon was pulling too much out of the Northeast. The Defense Department's recommendations not only included closing the Groton and Portsmouth bases, but also closing the Brunswick Naval Air Station in Maine and Otis Air National Guard Base in Massachusetts. The commission did vote to close both of those air bases.
 The 687-acre Groton base, which is home to 17 attack submarines and the Naval Submarine School, would have shut down by 2011, with the school and one of the Groton submarine squadrons moving to Kings Bay, Ga., and two other squadrons and a repair depot moving to Norfolk, Va.
 The Pentagon originally said it could save $1.6 billion over 20 years by closing the base, though the Government Accountability Office found in a review of a small part of the plan that those savings were overstated by at least $400 million. Opponents of closing the base contended that in the long run, the closing would cost the Navy money, particularly because of an environmental cleanup, which the state estimated would cost more than $125 million.
 Some officials involved in the fight said the Navy undermined its own case by trying to characterize the base as old. The Navy has invested heavily in the Groton base, with $50 million in capital projects in this fiscal year alone. The five commissioners who visited the base said they were surprised to see it had some of the most modern infrastructure of any of the bases they had seen.
 ''The best way to sell the sub base is to tour the sub base, because you very clearly see it's not an 'elderly' facility,'' said John C. Markowicz, a retired Navy captain and chairman of the Subase Realignment Coalition, the grass-roots group that fought to save the base. ''That really started sowing the seeds of doubt in the commissioners' minds.''
 Federal, state and local officials said the work that went into the other arguments was not wasted, because those other arguments helped sway the commissioners. They also said the Pentagon should now realize that the state will vigorously defend the base, as it had during threats to close it in the 1990's.
 ''I don't think we're going to see another BRAC round for quite a while,'' said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Democrat of Connecticut, referring to the base realignment and closure commission. ''It's been 10 years since the last one, and I think it will be more than 10 years before we'll see another one. And, having overturned two Pentagon recommendations to close the base, they're not going to do it again for a long time. We are now stronger than we were before, because the case was made so powerfully for it.''
 Loren B. Thompson, the chief operating officer of the Lexington Institute, a public-policy research group in Washington, said officials were not overstating the importance of the decision. Groton and the Portsmouth base, which repairs submarines, represented more than a third of the $7 billion the Navy expected to save if its recommendations were implemented.
 ''The base closure commission's lopsided vote to keep both Portsmouth and Groton open suggest a rather severe rebuff to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's advisers,'' Dr. Thompson said. ''It would have been different if this had been a close vote, but it was not close at all, and it suggests a major problem with the way in which the Navy and the Pentagon have gone about thinking about rationalizing the base system.''
 Robert Gillcash, a defense analyst and senior adviser at McKenna Long & Aldridge, a consulting firm in Washington, said the commission's vote was a strong endorsement not only of submarines, but also of Groton's role in the future of submarine warfare.
 ''This was not the first attempt to shut Groton,'' Mr. Gillcash said. ''And on each attempt, the facts that support keeping open the crown jewel and historic birthplace of maritime superiority have saved it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Olsson of East Lyme showing support, above, for keeping the Groton submarine base open. John C. Markowicz, top right, and other supporters toast the decision of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, chaired by Anthony J. Principi, left. (Photo by George Ruhe/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
(Photo by Dana Jensen/The Day via Associated Press)(pg. 1)
From left, Senators Christopher Dodd and Joe Lieberman and Gov. M. Jodi Rell at a news conference announcing that the Naval Submarine Base New London would remain open. Right, a view of the base. (Photo by Bob Child/Associated Press)
 (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); ARMIES (78%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); APPROVALS (76%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EVIDENCE (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (57%) United States Armament and Defense; Military Bases and Installations; Submarines; Naval Submarine Base (Groton, Conn) ; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (54%) Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (55%); JOE LIEBERMAN (54%); M JODI RELL (54%) Robert A Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Groton (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



74 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: In a Wrenching Week, the Markets Held Strong

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Investors bid up the shares of companies that stand to benefit from Hurricane Katrina, with oil, construction, and engineering stocks helping to lead the three major stock market indexes higher for the week.
 Oil and gas refiners jumped 20.1 percent, the best weekly performance of any group in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Other top sectors included steel, metals and mining, construction materials, homebuilding, and integrated oil and gas businesses. 
Among individual stocks, Valero Energy, the nation's biggest independent oil refiner, gained more than 21 percent, the best weekly performance in the S.&P. Other top performers included Sunoco, U.S. Steel, Marathon Oil, Caterpillar Inc. and Halliburton. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 50.08 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 10,447.37. The S.&P. 500 gained 12.92 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 1,218.02. The Nasdaq composite index rose 20.30 points, or 1 percent, to close at 2,141.07.
 The price of crude oil reached a high of $70.85 on Wednesday and closed at $67.57 a barrel on Friday.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note dropped sharply, to 4.04 percent from 4.21 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

 Chiron
NNM: CHIR
The drug maker Novartis said it had made a $4.5 billion cash offer for the rest of Chiron, the vaccine maker, that it doesn't already own. Also, Chiron said it would contribute 18 million to 26 million doses of flu shots this year.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $42.79
WEEK'S CHANGE: +21.25%
EST. '05 P/E: 35.13

 Harrah's Entertainment
NYSE: HET
The chairman of the world's largest gambling company said its casino in Biloxi, Miss., was ''probably ruined.'' Damage from Hurricane Katrina has crippled the region's gambling industry.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $69.20
WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.55%
EST. '05 P/E: 18.94

 Tiffany
NYSE: TIF
The luxury retailer reported better-than-expected second-quarter earnings and raised its outlook for the year, citing expectations for total fiscal 2005 sales growth of 8 percent to 10 percent.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $36.80
WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.48%
EST. '05 P/E: 23.10

 Shaw Group
NYSE: SGR
Shares of the engineering and construction company based in Baton Rouge, La., soared in anticipation of a rebuilding effort in the region. The company also said it was assisting the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.36
WEEK'S CHANGE: +31.93%
EST. '05 P/E: 27.39

 ADC Telecommunications
NNM: ADCT
The communications infrastructure products company lowered its fourth-quarter earnings forecast to a range of 24 to 28 cents, which was below Wall Street's estimate of 30 cents.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.74
WEEK'S CHANGE: -11.91%
EST. '05 P/E: 21.50

 Albertson's
NYSE: ABS
The supermarket chain said that it was considering putting itself up for sale. The company's sales have lagged behind many of its rivals since a huge strike in 2003 in Southern California crippled its business.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.05
WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.44%
EST. '05 P/E: 16.81

 Boeing
NYSE: BA
Machinists went on strike, forcing the aerospace company to halt airplane production after the two sides failed to agree on a new contract. The strike affects about 18,400 workers in Seattle, Wichita, Kan., and Gresham, Ore.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $64.34
WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.97%
EST. '05 P/E: 22.60

(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Exxon MobilNYSE: XOMThe government said the oil company would receive a loan of six million barrels of crude oil from emergency stockpiles. Prices have surged since Hurricane Katrina disrupted oil production in the Gulf of Mexico.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $60.68WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.89%EST. '05 P/E: 12.28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); HURRICANES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); GAMING (86%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); BIOLOGICS MFG (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INFLUENZA (64%); RETAILERS (60%); VACCINES (52%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (83%); CATERPILLAR INC (70%); MARATHON OIL CORP (58%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (57%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (53%); TIFFANY & CO (52%); SHAW GROUP INC (51%); ADC TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (83%); NOVN (SWX) (83%); CTA (LSE) (70%); CATR (PAR) (70%); CAT (SWX) (70%); CAT (NYSE) (70%); MRO (NYSE) (58%); VLO (NYSE) (57%); CZR (NASDAQ) (53%); TIF (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (70%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (53%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (53%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (52%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (52%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (52%); NAICS541620 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (51%); NAICS332996 FABRICATED PIPE & PIPE FITTING MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); BILOXI, MS, USA (73%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



75 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE ECONOMY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Storm Is Devastating for Businesses in Gulf Area, but Its National Effect Remains Muted

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT and EDMUND L. ANDREWS; David Leonhardt reported from New York for this article, and Edmund L. Andrews from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Motoko Rich, Charles V. Bagli and Louis Uchitelle from New York; Micheline Maynard from Toledo, Ohio; Simon Romero from Houston; Susan Moran from Boulder, Colo.; Danny Hakim from Buffalo; and Laurie J. Flynn from San Francisco.

 BODY:
The broad American economy has largely withstood the early effects of Hurricane Katrina, even as residents of the Gulf Coast suffer through a regional economic disaster with few equals. 
 The flooding has displaced about one million workers in the Gulf Coast region, many of whom will not be able to resume their jobs anytime soon. While some employees of large companies are still receiving paychecks, Wal-Mart stopped paying workers in the area four days after shutting its stores, and McDonald's and UPS have not paid regular wages to idled employees since the storm hit.
The hurricane has also bottled up grain shipments on the Mississippi River, hurting farmers and grain exporters, and saddled households with even higher energy costs.
 The effect of the damage to oil rigs and refineries in the gulf is the greatest uncertainty. But contrary to early fears, the nation's transportation network has not become overwhelmed so far, and despite spot shortages drivers have generally been able to buy gasoline. The price of crude oil fell 2 percent on Friday -- to $67.57, up only $1 from a week ago -- as a large importing terminal off the coast of Louisiana reopened and the International Energy Agency announced that it would release emergency oil supplies. 
 As corporate executives scrambled to get in touch with employees who lived in Katrina's path, most said they had seen little overall effect on their businesses.
 ''It's a little too early to tell,'' said Fred Beljaars, an executive vice president of DHL, the shipping company. ''But the first indications are that there is no real impact on trade.''
 Apple Computer, Intel and National Semiconductor all reported that their operations were running normally. So did Harley-Davidson and Whirlpool. Nissan halted production Monday morning at a plant in Canton, Miss., that builds Titan pickup trucks, but reopened it Wednesday.
 Economists said that the storm and its aftermath had raised the risks of a downturn. One major question is whether the damage to oil refineries aggravates what had already been a growing burden caused by soaring energy prices. 
 No forecaster knows how consumers will react to seeing gas lines reminiscent of the 1970's and hearing the president urge people to drive less. If oil production or refining does not return to pre-storm levels for months, a spike in energy prices could prompt households to cut their spending and cause other hardships.
 ''The difference with this disaster is that we have an energy shock,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm.
 But the most likely outcome, according to forecasts that Wall Street firms revised after the storm, is a slowdown in growth during the rest of this year and a pickup next year, as New Orleans and southern Mississippi are rebuilt.
 ''Clearly, this will be a challenging time for the economy,'' Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said on Friday after meeting with Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, to discuss the storm's impact. But, Mr. Snow said, ''The normal pattern is that after the negative consequences, we get into a rebuilding mode, and that rebuilding mode takes you to higher G.D.P. levels.'' 
 In a sign that the recovery could make the sprawling construction sector even busier than it has been during the recent housing boom, the price of lumber jumped last week. 
 ''Personally, I'm loading up on everything,'' said Bruce Scanlon, manager of Boulder Lumber, a Colorado store that sells the bulk of its supplies to building contractors. ''No one is taking any chances.''
 The fast economic recovery from the Sept. 11 attacks showed that traumatic events often have a relatively small economic impact. On the day of the attacks, the economy had been shrinking for about six months; it was growing again by the end of the year, at least outside of the New York area.
 There is a major difference this year, however: the Fed and the Bush Administration have less in their arsenal to fight economic weakness today than they did in 2001. 
 A soaring budget deficit makes it harder for the White House to propose tax cuts than it was four years ago. Mr. Snow dismissed suggestions last week from the House Republican whip, Roy Blunt of Missouri, that Congress take up a stimulus package that goes beyond money for reconstruction.
 And the Fed has been raising its benchmark interest rate since the start of last year to ward off inflation, a policy that Anthony M. Santomero, president of the Philadelphia Fed, said last week would probably continue.
 But Katrina complicates the Fed's job. 
 ''The problem, and every Fed official is fully aware of this, is that every recession since 1971 has been preceded by two things: higher oil prices and an increasing Federal funds rate,'' said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research. If Katrina leads to a sustained increase in oil prices, Mr. Yamarone said, the Fed could have to ''navigate between skyrocketing prices and stagnating economic growth.''
 Consumers also have less of a cushion than they have had at many other points. In July, the nation's savings rate fell below zero, to its lowest level on record, the Commerce Department said last week, suggesting that households have little ability to absorb higher oil prices without cutting other spending.
 But the forces supporting growth might be just as strong. Katrina's aftermath caused a fall in long-term interest rates, potentially prolonging the housing boom, which has been showing signs of slowing.
 Americans have also been unwilling to change their driving habits, despite oil prices that had doubled between early 2004 and last month. 
 ''You still have to get from Point A to Point B,'' said Paul Noonan, a 41-year-old engineer from Boston, while stopped at a rest stop in upstate New York on his way to Minnesota last week. People talk about traveling less, Mr. Noonan said, but he did not think they were really doing so.
 But the economy has been growing at a healthy clip in recent weeks, and few forecasters think it is close to tipping into recession.
 ''Fortunately, this happened in a strong economy,'' said Henry A. McKinnell Jr., chief executive of Pfizer, the world's largest drug maker and the chairman of the Business Roundtable, a lobbying group of chief executives. ''But I don't think anyone would say it will be positive.''
 Even if the economic impact ends up being narrow, the storm has still created a challenge unlike any other the country has faced recently. A local economy that employed a million people has suddenly shut down.
 Some of those people have been able to continue working elsewhere. Of the several thousand Wal-Mart employees from the 36 stores that were still closed on Friday morning, four have relocated to Pensacola, Fla., and are working for the company there, said Melissa O'Brien, a spokeswoman. Wal-Mart is also giving emergency grants, typically of about $250, to some employees. 
 UPS is helping Gulf Coast workers put in for holiday time or unused vacation so they could continue to be paid, said Norman Black, a company spokesman. Walt Riker, a McDonald's spokesman, said the chain was trying to locate workers and considering ways to help them financially.
 DHL, Pfizer and Starbucks all said they were continuing to pay employees who were unable to work because stores and offices were flooded or destroyed. Other people -- many employees of small businesses, for example -- were not so fortunate. 
 At a church shelter in Houston, Paula Sanchez, 52, slowly cried as she said she was trying to locate her 24-year-old daughter. Ms. Sanchez, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic who worked as a pipe insulator at Avondale Shipyard in New Orleans, also wondered whether she could start over in Texas. ''I hear there is industry here,'' she said. ''I hope there's something here for me. I'm ready to do almost anything.''
 The recovery in New Orleans is likely to take longer than it will in southern Mississippi, where there is much less flooding. About 600,000 of the region's 1 million workers are in New Orleans, according to Economy.com, a research company.
 Outside the immediate area, the biggest economic problems have come along the Mississippi River corridor. The Port of New Orleans is the nation's fifth busiest, and its closure has left barges in the Midwest with nowhere to go.
 River/Gulf Grain, a shipping company in Davenport, Iowa, sent only one barge of corn and soybeans down the Mississippi last week and planned to send none next week, compared with the four or five it usually sends this time of year, said Erol R. Melik, the company's president. With no way to get the corn and beans on their way to Asia, the company would not hire the extra four workers that it did last year during harvest season.
 ''We're just taxing our infrastructure in a way we could never envision,'' Mr. Melik said. ''It's going to be a quagmire for a long time.''
 Manufacturers have been calling ports from Houston to Philadelphia to ask about their ability to accept steel, rubber and other goods that usually go to New Orleans. On Thursday in Houston, stevedores finished unloading 3,000 tons of rubber and timber from the Indotrans Flores, a freighter diverted from New Orleans and Pascagoula, Miss., after the shipping lanes there had closed.
 ''There are alternatives,'' Donald C. McCrory, executive director of Port of Memphis, said. 
 Still, the other ports will not be able to handle all of the New Orleans traffic easily, and many companies expect weeks of bottlenecks. The potential that those bottlenecks might worsen is one of the new risks facing the economy.
 No matter how the hurricane had affected them, people outside the disaster zone said financial issues were not their biggest concern.
 ''We're not feeling sorry for ourselves,'' said Mr. Melik of River/Gulf Grain. The human tragedy of the storm was far bigger than any economic problems, he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the economic effects of Hurricane Katrina referred incorrectly to the wages of idled workers at McDonald's, because of misinformation supplied by the company. McDonald's continued to pay the workers; it did not stop paying them after the storm hit.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''How One Coast Contributes''The area devastated by Hurricane Katrina accounts for about one percent of gross domestic product. The effects of the hurricane are also being felt in other financial and commodities markets.Gulfport/BiloxiMetro economic output, 2004: $7.1Total employment: 113,600New OrleansMetro economic output, 2004: $48.8 billionTotal employment: 615,700MobileMetro economic output, 2004: $10.9Total employment: 170,800PascagoulaMetro economic output, 2004: $3.5Total employment: 53,600Interest ratesGraphs track interest rate on Federal Funds and 10-year Treasury Yield since last Friday.CommoditiesGraphs track commodities of Lumber and Coffee since last Friday.(Sources by Economy.com
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Ships and Shipping

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (53%); INTEL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi River; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



76 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; F. Y. I.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK

 BODY:

Golden Boy

Q. The golden statue of Prometheus at Rockefeller Center is surely one of the most eye-friendly male nudes in the history of art. Does anyone know who the sculptor's model was?

A. Sorry; reference sources do not mention the artist's model, if any.
 The sculptor, Paul Manship, tried many approaches before Prometheus was selected. In a 1989 biography of his father, John Manship wrote, ''Manship and his assistants produced dozens of sketches of possible subjects,'' including a sea god, before Prometheus was chosen by Hartley Burr Alexander, the professor coordinating Rockefeller Center's artwork.
Paul Manship started with a 24-inch plaster model for the 18-foot statue. He and his assistants used a pantograph, a device with jointed rods, to reproduce the sculpture -- in bronze coated with gold leaf -- in the larger scale. ''This was a relatively quick way to do the work,'' John Manship wrote, ''as time was of the essence, bypassing the usual modeling.'' By 1934, the statue was in place for its dedication. 

A Place for the Friendless

Q. The building at 144 West 15th Street used to have a poignant sign, barely legible, that read: ''St. Zita's Home for Friendless Women.'' But when the building was acquired by the Mormon Church, the sign disappeared. Any details about the home?

A. St. Zita's Home, originally at 158 East 24th Street, was founded in 1890 by Ellen O'Keefe, an Irish immigrant. As a nurse trainee at the city hospital on Blackwells Island, she encountered homeless women who had been abandoned by their families, and decided to found a place where they could restart their lives.
 ''Every woman who sought admission was received without formal application and regardless of her religious views or previous character,'' according to a description of the institution in the Catholic Encyclopedia. 
 In 1903 Miss O'Keefe established a community of nuns to perpetuate her work. With the blessing of the archbishop, she was named a mother superior under the title of Mother Zita, after a 13th-century Italian saint who gave up her bed to homeless women. A nun always slept by the door of the home, to honor a pledge that no one would be refused admission at any hour.
 In the early 1970's, Rita Mae Brown wrote a depressing poem about the place that read in part: ''The unwed/Eyes downcast/Pass each other like/Dumb cargo ships.''
 St. Zita's Home ceased operation about three years ago, said Sister Maureen Francis, who worked there for 15 years and said that the atmosphere was very different from the one described in the poem. Sister Maureen Francis now lives with other nuns from the home, along with some former residents, at St. Zita's Villa, a home for elderly women, in Monsey, N.Y., in Rockland County. The 15th Street building is now a Mormon chapel. 

Mass Movement

Q. I recently came across a reference to May 1 as ''moving day.'' Is there something special about that date?

A. Yes but it has nothing to do with maypoles or labor celebrations. In the 19th century, May 1 was traditionally the day residential leases were signed in New York. According to the Encyclopedia of New York City, a chronic housing shortage and high rents led tenants to move frequently. ''All trade ceased that day because the streets were so heavily filled with traffic,'' the encyclopedia said. ''After the economic depression of 1873 ended, more housing was built and tenants gradually moved less often.'' MICHAEL POLLAK


CORRECTION-DATE: September 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A report in the F.Y.I. column last Sunday about the Prometheus statue in Rockefeller Center referred incorrectly to the sculptor's model. His name is indeed known. He was Leonardo Nole, a native of New Rochelle, N.Y., who worked as a lifeguard before becoming an artist's model.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); RELIGION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); FAMILY (68%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (64%); NURSES & NURSING (64%); HOMELESSNESS (63%) Rockefeller Center (NYC); Housing ; Renting and Leasing; Women; Moving Industry

ORGANIZATION: St Zita's Home for Friendless Women

PERSON: Michael Pollak

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



77 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; DIRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: The Naked And the Dead

BYLINE: By VALERIE GLADSTONE

 BODY:
When the performance artists Delia Bajo and Brainard Carey fell in love in 1999, they say, they gave up everything to explore their newfound happiness. ''It was a little irresponsible,'' Ms. 
Bajo said recently, sipping tea in a pastry shop near P.S. 122 on the Lower East Side. ''We stayed in bed all day, rejoicing in the sensuality of life. It was euphoric.'' Ms. Bajo, 32, who had studied ballet, and Mr. Carey, 38, a former gallery owner, soon began sharing their feelings with others in interactive, multidisciplinary projects, presented under the name Praxis, at places like the Whitney Biennial and the Dublin Fringe Festival. In neo-''happenings,'' they offered audience members and passersby hugs, foot washings, prayers and, on one occasion, marijuana; that event also featured a John-and-Yoko-like couple frolicking naked on a bed.
 Mr. Carey's mother died recently, and in their new piece, ''Forget Me Not, a New Economy Mass'' (at P.S. 122 from Wednesday through Sept. 13), Ms. Bajo and Mr. Carey hope to help others find ways to cope with loss. ''We use ambient music, dance, text, art and prayer to create a comforting atmosphere,'' Mr. Carey said. ''We have 10 performers but we also want audience members to participate. We watch the gestures and movements of nonprofessionals and incorporate them into our work.''
Vallejo Ganter, the artistic director of P.S. 122 and a longtime Praxis supporter, said, ''Their work perfectly suits this place, as it subverts expectations about performance; it's a combination of mediums and a truly living art.'' Toward that end, Ms. Bajo and Mr. Carey will oversee interactive events at the theater during the day, including adult pajama parties and erotic video salons (by invitation only; sign up at www.twobodies.com). VALERIE GLADSTONE


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo courtesy of Delia Bajo and Brainard Carey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (89%); BALLET (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (67%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Ps 122 (Theater Co)

PERSON: Valerie Gladstone; Delia Bajo; Carey Carey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



78 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: For the Self-Employed, Labor Doesn't Take a Holiday

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
THE Labor Day weekend provides a bittersweet clean break. Children relish the fleeting downtime before the grind of school kicks in. Adults hurry to squeeze in a last round of golf or trip to the beach before the rhythm of work returns.
 But for this writer -- and for a growing number of people in this economy -- Labor Day isn't an end to anything. For us, the final weeks of August are hardly a time of relaxation. When it seems like most of our friends, neighbors, and colleagues are recharging their batteries, were toiling as usual. The reason: we don't get paid vacations. 
 It's long been true that many self-employed, contract or contingent workers -- taxi drivers, day laborers, waiters -- don't get paid for time they don't work. But structural changes in the economy ensure that with each passing year, a larger and more representative slice of the work force goes without paid respite. 
 In today's global, hypercompetitive economy, companies large and small aim to keep their payrolls as lean as possible, to preserve flexibility and avoid paying costly benefits. Meanwhile, thanks to the ready availability of cheap credit, the expansion of broadband and wireless connectivity, and the proliferation of services like Kinko's, eBay and Starbucks (the corporate headquarters of Self-Employed Inc.), this decade is proving to be something of a golden age for those who work on their own. 
 All over the country, legions of productive workers -- real estate salespeople and mortgage brokers, literary agents and documentary filmmakers, hedge fund managers and insurance agents, Web designers and personal trainers, ''downsized'' middle managers turned consultants and bloggers, and the hundreds of thousands of people who make a living selling goods on eBay -- go to work for themselves every morning. 
 In a report for the Small Business Administration, Robert W. Fairlie, an economist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, concluded that there were 12.2 million self-employed workers in 2003, representing about 10 percent of the work force, up from 11.5 million in 2000. The National Association for the Self-Employed, citing Census Bureau data, puts the number at 16 million.
 Having been self-employed for 12 years, I can report there is much to recommend this career path. People who work for themselves are frequently able to pursue their dreams, earn more income, and better integrate the demands of work and family than those on salary. But there's a downside to self-employment that surfaces when the economy reaches low tide in late summer.
 Traditionally, August was a time of near-universal vacations because factories would shut down and offices and shops became uninhabitable -- without air-conditioning, it was simply too hot to work. But now that we've shifted from a manufacturing-based economy to a climate-controlled service economy, it's never too hot to trade stocks, or to consult, or to buy and sell homes.
 ''August was busier than July for me,'' said Laurie Crouse, a real estate broker with Coldwell Banker/Riverside Shavell in Westport, Conn. Like virtually all real estate brokers, Ms. Crouse is self-employed and works on commission. She hasn't taken off an entire week for ''more than two years, maybe three.''
 Indeed, for many professionals, leaving town for a couple of weeks at the end of August can be self-destructive. A power seller on eBay can't simply stop shipping baseball cards or picture frames for two weeks. Customers will look elsewhere. A blogger who shuts down in August may lose readers.
 The richest of the self-employed -- like hedge-fund managers, who receive nominal salaries, but whose annual income rises and falls based on the profits of the fund -- are often the least able to get away. ''I don't think there's any possibility to check out for a week, unless they have the ability to have a very high level of confidence,'' said Brian Villante, chief executive officer of Grace Financial Group, a brokerage firm based in Southampton, N.Y. Last week, the havoc that Hurricane Katrina wreaked in the energy markets provided an object lesson in why it's dangerous for trading hotshots to leave their computers during what should be one of the slowest weeks of the year. On Wednesday, I was able to catch a self-employed Wall Street billionaire at his desk at 9:10 a.m. 
 To a degree, self-employment turns everybody into a hedge fund manager, constantly engaged in arbitrage between time and money. Take off one week, and you lose X thousand dollars in income. But how precisely does one hedge the value of lost compensation against the intangible gains of time spent relaxing with your family? 
 Then there's the long-term opportunity cost of unplugging. If you're not around when a client calls, the client might find somebody else, who might do a better job. Then you won't even get a call the next time. 
 This isn't a plea for pity. Many people are self-employed by choice. And for them, for 48 or 49 weeks of the year it's clearly the right choice. But the fact that millions of hard-working Americans are going without paid vacations might help explain why the economic mood -- even before Katrina -- has been sour this summer. 
 And it certainly helps explain why, on one of the last days of summer, the 5:23 Metro North train out of Grand Central was packed with money managers and floor traders, writers and consultants, employed and self-employed. When the train crossed a bridge that offers a beautiful, calming view of Long Island Sound, most heads, including mine, were bent over laptops, BlackBerries, and research reports. When you work for yourself, time is always money.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter Arkle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF EMPLOYMENT (91%); CHILDREN (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LITERARY AGENTS (77%); GOLF (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (74%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); SALES FORCE (72%); LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); CENSUS (65%); BROADBAND (65%); INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (50%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (50%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (50%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%); VISUAL ARTISTS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Labor Day; Labor

PERSON: Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



79 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Noticing Details, Like Opportunity's Knock

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AFTER Lisa J. Dolan was laid off as an investigator for a law firm in 1996, reconstruction became her focus -- reconstruction of her career, and reconstruction as the theme of the product she would offer in going into business for herself.
 Ms. Dolan is the founder and president of Securit Inc., which has grown from a home-based Long Island business with no employees, a single product and less than $100,000 a year in sales to an enterprise with 40 full-time and a dozen part-time employees, $2 million to $3 million a year in gross revenue and a headquarters in Queens.
In its first three years, from 1997 to 2000, when the show was entirely Ms. Dolan's, Securit's mission was largely to sell the product she had conceived after a dozen years as an investigator for law firms: an accident reconstruction kit designed to help companies combat damage claims after accidents involving their trucks. 
 Then, encouraged by the success of that venture, she decided in early 2001 to transform Securit into an investigative and security services business. It provides guards, armed or unarmed, for companies and government agencies, including the Army Corps of Engineers. It also conducts background checks on individuals and organizations, and carries out undercover surveillance for clients.
 Ms. Dolan took the turn into security and investigations before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, which led to an increased demand for such services. According to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of people providing those services in New York City grew 10 percent within a year. 
 But though the market growth ''definitely played a role'' in her company's steady expansion, Ms. Dolan said, so did her employees' qualifications -- most are retired from law enforcement jobs -- and the Small Business Administration's certification of Securit as eligible to bid on federal contracts reserved for small businesses owned or predominantly owned by women.
 That has been especially helpful, Ms. Dolan said, because her company is in a male-dominant field.
 But back to 1996.
 ''I was laid off and thought, what was I going to do?'' said Ms. Dolan, 50. She had been an investigator with law firms for a dozen years, pursuing the details of accidents involving deaths and injuries. She also had a bachelor's degree in criminal justice and correctional administration. 
 Rather than offering her skills to another law firm, she decided to strike out on her own.
 She knew that companies often had difficulty in accident lawsuits because their drivers had failed to obtain all the on-the-spot information needed to ''lock in'' the true extent of liability. 
 So she put together an accident reconstruction kit. A booklet told drivers what information to record immediately, beyond the names of the other drivers and their license, registration and insurance data. 
 It called for descriptions of the damage; the weather and traffic light or traffic sign conditions; measurements of tire skid or braking marks; statements that the other drivers might have spontaneously made acknowledging their responsibility; and even a line for the (hoped-for) signature of the other drivers indicating their assent.
 It also had items like a rain-resistant crayon to outline the tire marks and other important spots so they would be highlighted in the photographs to be taken with the camera that was also in the kit.
 To some people, it was apparently too elementary to be marketable.
 ''No bank would give me a loan,'' Ms. Dolan said of the $15,000 she needed to buy the parts and packaging for the first kits. So she borrowed most of it from her sister. 
 The bankers had failed to see the road. Over the next three years, Ms Dolan said, she sold about 10,000 kits to various companies and the Postal Service for $13 to $20 apiece, making a ''good profit.''
 She also began selling bulletproof vests wholesale before she gave up selling goods for selling services.
 As part of that switch, Ms. Dolan was joined in the business by two minority-share partners with law enforcement experience. One, Jerome Monaco, retired as a supervisory agent with the United States Customs Service. 
 The other is a woman for whom Ms. Dolan requested anonymity because of the nature of her work elsewhere. But a successful investigator would find that she does undercover work at a law enforcement agency.


GRAPHIC: Photo: VIGILANT -- Jerome Monaco and Lisa J. Dolan are partners in Securit, a security and investigation company she began in 1997 after losing her job with a law firm. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); MARKET SIZE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (73%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); ARMIES (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (67%); TERRORISM (67%); STATISTICS (64%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (62%) Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%) Securit (Co)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Lisa J Dolan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



80 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: In Manhattan, Poor Make 2? For Each Dollar To the Rich 

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue is only about 60 blocks from the Wagner Houses in East Harlem, but they might as well be light years apart. They epitomize the highest- and lowest-earning census tracts in Manhattan, where the disparity between rich and poor is now greater than in any other county in the country.
 That finding, in an analysis conducted for The New York Times, dovetails with other new regional economic research, which identifies the Bronx as the poorest urban county in the country and suggests that the middle class in New York State is being depleted.
The top fifth of earners in Manhattan now make 52 times what the lowest fifth make -- $365,826 compared with $7,047 -- which is roughly comparable to the income disparity in Namibia, according to the Times analysis of 2000 census data. Put another way, for every dollar made by households in the top fifth of Manhattan earners, households in the bottom fifth made about 2 cents. 
 That represents a substantial widening of the income gap from previous years. In 1980, the top fifth of earners made 21 times what the bottom fifth made in Manhattan, which ranked 17th among the nation's counties in income disparity. 
 By 1990, Manhattan ranked second behind Kalawao County, Hawaii, a former leper colony with which it had little in common except for that signature grove of palm trees at the World Financial Center. The rich in Manhattan made 32 times the average of the poor then, or $174,486 versus $5,435. 
 The analysis was conducted for The Times by Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociology professor at Queens College of the City University of New York. 
 The growing disparity in Manhattan helped drive New York from 11th among cities with the biggest income disparities in 1980 to fifth in 1990 and fourth in 2000, behind Atlanta; Berkeley, Calif.; and Washington, according to the analysis. ''The gains are all going to the top,'' Dr. Beveridge said. ''It's a massive class disparity.''
 Last week, the Census Bureau reported that even as the economy grew around the nation, incomes stagnated and poverty rates rose. The Bronx, with a poverty rate of 30.6 percent, was outranked only by three border counties in Texas where living costs are lower. 
 Swollen, in part, by the earnings of commuters who work in New York City, median household income among the states was highest in New Jersey ($61,359) and Connecticut ($60,528). It was $47,349 in New York State, also above the national median.
 A separate analysis, being released this weekend by the Fiscal Policy Institute in Albany, warns that the middle class is being depleted while the rich are getting richer and the poor are growing in number and barely getting by -- more so in New York State and particularly upstate. 
 The loss of good-paying jobs, especially in manufacturing, ''has meant that the 'hollowing out' of the middle of the income distribution continued at a rapid pace,'' the institute, a union-backed research group, concluded. It said the number of families earning between $35,000 and $150,000 declined by 50,000 from 2000 to 2003 while the number that earned above $150,000 and below $35,000 increased. 
 Dr. Mark Levitan, senior policy analyst for the Community Service Society, a liberal research and advocacy group, said he did not believe the city's economy was ''uniquely weak,'' but said an increase in the poverty rate from 19 percent to 20.3 percent, as measured by the census's new American Community Survey, ''is fundamentally a story about stagnant wages.'' 
 Edward Wolff, a New York University economist, attributed the growing disparity to ballooning Wall Street incomes and declining wages for lower skilled workers. ''Though these forces are at work across the country,'' he said, ''the heavy preponderance of corporate headquarters, the financial sector and the legal sector in New York City has made the increase in the ratio of income between the top and bottom quintile more extreme than in other parts of the country.'' 
 Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute, said the income gap, which in Manhattan has historically been large, can endure indefinitely. 
 ''The elites, the top sliver of the income scale, can drive consumption and investment forward while the bottom half slogs along,'' he said. ''If inequality had embedded within it its own seeds of destruction, it would implode sooner than later. But that doesn't appear to be the case. Many who have fallen behind have a skewed notion of their prospects for upward mobility.''
 Manhattan, he said, is ''an amplified microcosm'' of conditions elsewhere in the country. 
 The income gap in Manhattan was far wider than in any other county. In tiny Clay County, Georgia, which has only 1,355 households and ranked second, the rich, on average, made about 38 times what the poor made. 
 Compared with the poorest Manhattanites, those in the top fifth are disproportionately male, non-Hispanic white and married. Roughly equal proportions among rich and poor are immigrants, are employed by private profit-making companies and work in sales. 
 The lowest-income census tract in the city is a triangular patch of East Harlem east of First Avenue and north of East 119th Street, where, despite a hint of gentrification in a renovated brownstone or two, the neighborhood is dominated by the mammoth though generally well-tended public housing project called the Wagner Houses. The median household income there is $9,320, most of the residents are black or Hispanic and do not have high school degrees, 56 percent live below the poverty level and about one in 10 are foreign born.
 Darryl Powell, a 43-year-old automobile mechanic, said that most were struggling just to get by. ''They're trying to keep a roof over their head,'' he said. ''People are trying to hold onto what they've got.'' 
 Sheila Estep said she was facing eviction because she was working as a full-time mother raising three sons rather than returning to her earlier jobs as an electrician, plumber and cosmetologist. ''If I fail at my job, they'll fail at theirs,'' she said. 
 Sharon Hammond, who sells cosmetics, said she and other tenants wished their neighborhood were better and that she had a working stove instead of a temporary hotplate in her apartment, but added: ''Everybody can't be rich.'' 
 Manhattan's highest-income census tract is a six-square-block rectangle bounded by Fifth and Park Avenues and East 56th and 59th Streets. The median household income in this mostly commercial section of East Midtown is $188,697 (average family income is $875,267); none of the residents identified themselves as black; nearly one-third have advanced degrees and more than one in three are foreign born. Even there, though, the poverty rate is 16 percent. 
 ''The income gap, while supposedly increasing, seems to be a natural phenomenon,'' said the developer Donald J. Trump, who lives in Trump Tower. ''Times have been good, but times have been good for many people and many classes of people. I think there is a very large middle class -- but not in this section, by the way.''

 White: 80%
Black: 4%
Asian: 8%
Hispanic: 6%

THE BOTTOM FIFTH
 White: 24%
Black: 26%
Asian: 10%
Hispanic: 38%

Note: Two percent of the top fifth and the bottom fifth fall into ''other'' or ''multiracial'' categories.

(Source by Queens College Dept. of Sociology)(pg. 35)

Map of Manhattan shows percentage of people in the richest and poorest fifths that live in each area.

(pg. 35)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Manhattan's Richest . . . and Poorest''A comparison of the highest-income fifth and lowest-income fifth of households in Manhattan.THE TOP FIFTH

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); RANKINGS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POVERTY RATES (65%) Census

PERSON: Sam Roberts; Andrew A (Prof) Beveridge

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NAMIBIA (79%) New York City; Bronx (NYC); New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



81 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3511 words

HEADLINE: If You Can Make It Here

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
MATTHEW S. LEVATICH hovers intently over the shiny red-and-chrome Harley-Davidson motorcycle parked near his office. He is annoyed. A reporter has questioned the American purity of Harley cycles and Mr. Levatich, as the vice president in charge of procurement, is defending the faith. He is slowly circling an employee's bike, identifying the source of each visible part.
 True, the silvery, cylindrical shock absorbers, which rise like a ''V'' from the front-wheel axle, are from abroad. So are the aluminum wheels and spokes. That is because such things are not manufactured in the United States, or not as well here as they are in other countries. Various dashboard gauges are also imported. Once made in the United States, they are not anymore -- feeding the perception that American manufacturing is in decline.
But the leather seat and saddle bags are from a supplier here in Milwaukee, Mr. Levatich said, tapping them emphatically as if they were items on a checklist. So are the metal brackets that attach the bags to the bike. The fenders, the gas tank, the brake system, the headlight assembly, the engine, the transmission, the muffler and the exhaust -- all these were also Made in America, and the entire motorcycle was assembled here, too. 
 ''We have more domestic content than we had 15 years ago,'' Mr. Levatich said, ''but it is a very fluid situation, very dynamic right now.''
 The United States may not be the industrial dynamo it was a half-century ago, but reports of the death of American manufacturing are greatly exaggerated. The country has not even been toppled from first place among nations. Measured as value added, the United States accounted for 23.8 percent of the world's manufacturing output in 2004, according to the World Bank. And despite more than two decades of globalization, the country's share has barely dipped. The annual average since 1982 has been 24.6 percent.
 ''Value added'' is the Cadillac measure of manufacturing performance. It calculates the dollar value created within each country when materials and labor are melded into finished products. (The whole is worth more than the sum of its parts.) Japan was second, at 20.9 percent -- a perennial also-ran, narrowing the gap in some years since 1982 and falling back in others. China, however, although still a distant third at not quite 9 percent, has marched steadily upward, overtaking Germany in 2003. South Korea, in sixth place at 4.1 percent, has also gained ground, passing Italy just last year.
 ''When you go to conferences of manufacturers,'' said L. Josh Bivens, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, ''it is really surprising the number of companies still manufacturing in this country.'' More than 100,000 have at least 20 employees, the Census Bureau reports.
 Some are foreign, like Toyota or Honda or BMW. But the great majority of manufacturers that stay put in the country, resisting globalization, are American-owned and share certain characteristics that help to keep them at home. More often than not, they are the nation's small and midsize manufacturers -- those employing fewer than 1,000 people -- but together they account for nearly 80 percent of the country's value added, according to Census Bureau data.
 Whatever the corporate size, many of the chief executives grew up with their companies, gaining considerable expertise along the way and an unusual attachment to the products they make. James L. Ziemer, 54, Harley's chief executive, started at the company as a freight elevator operator while he was still in high school, drawn by Harley factory workers who lived in his blue-collar neighborhood here and who raced Harleys on weekends.
 ''I'd say to myself, wow, these guys are being paid to ride motorcycles and burn rubber and everything else,'' Mr. Ziemer said, ''so I said, one day I'm going to be paid to ride a motorcycle.'' He owns three Harleys now and rides one regularly to work, parking it in a lot reserved for employees' cycles.
 GENE F. HAAS, 52, the founder, owner and president of Haas Automation Inc. in Oxnard, Calif., worked as a machinist while he was in high school and college, and he stuck to that trade, although he graduated with an accounting degree. From his experience and ingenuity -- and that of a high school classmate, Kurt Zierhut, now the director of electrical engineering -- came a line of computerized machine tools that makes Haas Automation a powerful presence in an industry otherwise all but lost to the Japanese and the Europeans.
 The similarities continue. Innovation is often compulsively pursued at the manufacturing companies that stay in America. The engineers and designers at Harley and Haas -- they constitute more than 10 percent of each work force -- are constantly altering the companies' products in ways that are not easily imitated by lower-priced foreign competitors. The resulting cachet helps to sustain demand.
 ''There are tweaks to the product that we do regularly,'' said Rod Copes, general manager of Harley's main engine and transmission plant in Milwaukee. ''It could be just the relocation of a hole in a casting. Having production here, we can make that happen.''
 Mr. Ziemer and Mr. Haas eschew layoffs, but in exchange for job security they require their workers to help squeeze out labor costs through automation and other efficiencies. More to the point, the manufacturers that stay put in America cannot add workers, in the opinion of Mr. Ziemer and Mr. Haas. Labor must be less than 20 percent of the manufacturing cost to withstand foreign competitors who employ more labor at very low wages, these executives argue.
 ''If the government expects manufacturers to employ more people over the next decade,'' Mr. Haas said, ''it isn't going to happen.''
 The nation's manufacturing employment fell rapidly during the 2001 recession and the slow recovery that followed, but as output has rebounded, employment has not. One reason, apart from automation, is the migration of production abroad, not only by big multinationals but by some of their suppliers as well, companies like Hiwasse Manufacturing in Jacksonville, Ark., which makes steel strips for the control panels of appliances and is considering a plant in northern Mexico to be near a big customer, General Electric. 
 Timely government regulation has played a role in sustaining domestic production. Without tariffs and import quotas in the 1980's, for example, Harley and Haas Automation might not be here today. Quotas gave Haas a protected market for midsize computer-controlled machine tools just when Mr. Haas was starting up, and tariffs on ''heavyweight motorcycles'' -- defined as those having engines with a total displacement of more than 700 cubic centimeters -- discouraged the Japanese from exporting to the United States the muscular, ornate, throaty-engined bikes that are Harley's specialty. That gave Harley breathing room just when it was close to going under.
 The pressure for intervention that existed in the 1980's and that prompted President Ronald Reagan to act is less evident today. With the birth of the World Trade Organization and the entry of China into that group, free trade is more established now than it was then. That makes it easier for American manufacturers, particularly big multinationals, to shift production abroad and to export back to the United States. Companies like Harley and Haas that keep their factories in America are also under pressure to globalize, but in a different way. Materials and parts that go into their products come incessantly from abroad.
 Mr. Levatich, Harley's procurement chief, says he tries to buck the flow. He argues that working with nearby suppliers enhances quality. In addition, he says, Harley calls on parts makers to make frequent changes in the components they supply, and having suppliers in this country makes that practice easier.
 ''We are not buying off-the-shelf components just on price -- not even a fastener,'' Mr. Levatich said, adding that before Harley looks for parts abroad, ''we have to be certain that we can't get what we need in the United States.''
 Robert Whaley, the procurement chief at Haas Automation, is more philosophical. Some things that Haas needs for its machine tools, like high-grade electric motors, flat-screened computer panels and some specialty steels, are no longer made in America, so Mr. Whaley must buy them overseas, and the value added to make those components goes to the foreign suppliers. Other parts are off-the-shelf commodities, and Haas buys them from the lowest bidder that is qualified. 
 Machine tools shape metal into finished parts, using dozens of tools to cut, drill, grind and bend. Some of those tools -- drill bits, for example -- do not change from one year to the next, so it makes sense to buy them from suppliers, some located overseas. And that is what Haas does. The cast metal housing for a water pump falls into the same category, and these come from Asia.
 ''There has been a gradual increase in overseas content,'' Mr. Whaley said, ''and further down the line, my suppliers in America are buying more offshore than they did 10 years ago.''

Harley-Davidson
Patriotism, Yes, And Union Pacts
 Ask Mr. Ziemer or any of his executives -- or the leaders of Harley's unions, which work hand-in-hand with the company -- why they keep production in the United States, and the answer comes back almost as a chorus: the Harley motorcycle is an American icon, a way of life, the vehicle of choice for open-road individualism. Its customers would not tolerate production abroad.
 ''People are even aware of the parts, where they might come from,'' Mr. Ziemer said. ''Not every single person, but a lot of our customers. And there are a lot of motorcycle magazines that write on this theme -- hey, we're metal, we're not plastic; we're American made, we're not foreign made.''
 But put aside the American-centric explanation and more fundamental reasons emerge. Harley nearly failed 25 years ago, when it was caught up in a disastrous merger, endless labor strife and shoddily made motorcycles. A leveraged buyout in 1981 featured a group of Harley executives who wanted to save the company and eventually did. Mr. Ziemer, who still sometimes comes to work in the factory-worker clothing of his early days, rose in this milieu, becoming chief financial officer in 1991 and chief executive last April. The company now has more than $5 billion in annual revenue.
 What he and the others did along the way was not always pretty. For openers, to survive, they axed 40 percent of the work force. But as motorcycle sales gradually revived -- thanks in part to four years of tariff protection starting in 1983 -- Harley's managers made an unusual deal with their unions, the International Association of Machinists and the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers. A partnership arrangement was written into the union contracts, requiring labor and management to agree on decisions affecting workers.
 The unions, for example, had a say in the selection of a new assembly plant site in the mid-1990's. Two of the three members of the site selection committee were from the unions, and Kansas City, Mo., got the nod, rather than a lower-wage state with a right-to-work law (which wouldn't require workers to join or support a union). Assembly is done at the Kansas City plant and at an older facility in York, Pa., while engines and transmissions are made in Milwaukee, the headquarters city. The pay for all this is $17 to $33 an hour and rising at 2.5 percent a year. Still, with the partnership as a framework, labor costs are continuously whittled down as a condition for keeping production in America.
 Management recently proposed going to Germany to buy the gears for a new transmission, rather than making them at the main plant here. The union wanted the work in-house and got it, but only after agreeing, as an offset, that future retirees would pay health insurance premiums beyond a certain cap. The company now pays the premiums without a cap.
 ''The unions have been forced to negotiate things we would have preferred not to negotiate,'' said Richard Krause, president of the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers local here, who was laid off himself for nearly five years in the early 1980's. ''We've changed work rules, and we've reduced job classifications considerably. But we are involved in running the business, and that means accepting changes that keep the company competitive.''
 Management, on the other hand, cannot transfer ''core production'' overseas without union consent. Nor can it lay off workers unilaterally. Adhering to this restriction, the company retrained and reassigned more than 60 workers who were displaced when Harley went to robotic welding of motorcycle frames at the Kansas City plant. ''Most companies would have put those people out,'' said Harold A. Scott, vice president for human resources.
 But maintaining job security while shaving labor content keeps Harley on a difficult treadmill. Production has to rise continuously -- and sales, too, of course -- as automation reduces the labor required to make each motorcycle. Enough additional motorcycles must be manufactured to absorb workers who are idled by the automation, thus keeping the number of workers constant. 
 Production and sales have indeed risen every year for more than a decade, and the work force, now at just over 9,700, even grew by 80 last year. Production will rise again this year, Mr. Ziemer said, although not quite to the original target of 339,000 motorcycles. Two-thirds of the customers are Americans ages 35 to 54, and perhaps because the baby boomers are aging, this demographic group is no longer buying at quite the old pace.
 That means selling more Harleys abroad, particularly in China, where the company has yet to sell its first motorcycle. While other companies often set up production in China, Harley will export motorcycles there, Mr. Ziemer says, once it has a distribution network in place.
 ''Folks are driving BMW's and Lexuses and Lamborghinis and everything else, and they are exported to China,'' he said, ''so why not a Harley, which is a $20,000 product compared to those others that are much greater than that? There's just no pressure to make Harleys there.''

Haas Automation
How Labor Costs Are Kept in Check
 For all its anonymity, Haas Automation is a significant player in a very important industry. Without machine tools, manufacturing would be primitive. Every piece of merchandise with metal in it requires a machine tool to shape that metal, and to accomplish this task, American manufacturers channel 70 percent of their spending on machine tools to the Japanese and the Europeans.
 What makes Haas stand out in this relentlessly competitive field is the niche that the company dominates. Nine hundred machine tools a month are shipped from a vast, still-expanding off-white factory set among strawberry fields and new industrial parks about 60 miles up the coast from Los Angeles. Haas machine tools are smaller than most foreign models; when Mr. Haas was getting started in the 1980's, quotas discouraged the Japanese from entering the smaller machine-tool market. ''The Japanese elected to sell the big, expensive stuff, which is what they still do today,'' he said.
 His own factory floor uses Japanese machine tools costing $2 million or $3 million each, which is five times as much as the most expensive Haas product. The Japanese machines are large enough to run unattended overnight, cutting and grinding one chunk of metal after another into the pieces that become the framework of a Haas machine tool. That sort of automation has reduced labor to about 10 percent of production costs, Mr. Haas said, perhaps low enough to stave off the Chinese when they finally get into the midsize machine tool market as a direct competitor.
 ''We basically produce one machine tool a month per person,'' he explained. ''If you were to go over to China, their labor cost is probably 50 people per machine tool per month.'' Even at $1 or $2 an hour, that adds up to considerably more than Haas's labor cost, given its wage scale of $10 to $25 an hour.
 Haas cites other tactics that keep it competitive while rooted in America. Breaking with the practice of most machine tool manufacturers, Haas maintains at its own expense an inventory of parts at each of its distributors. Because machine tools are complex mechanisms, they can break down, no matter who makes them. And a new part, specially ordered, can take weeks to arrive. In Haas's case, a distributor delivers one quickly out of inventory. ''It's a way to stay in business,'' Mr. Zierhut said.
 Haas makes most of its machine-tool components in-house, giving the company an edge in quality, its executives say. And the cost is not that much more, Mr. Zierhut said. His department, for example, makes the computer system that controls the machine tools, assigning 45 people to the task. Others buy computer controls from suppliers, mainly the Japanese. ''When we looked at a company doing that,'' Mr. Zierhut said, ''they still had 30 people whose job it was to adopt the purchased controls to their product.''
 STILL, the pressure to go abroad for components does not let up. Each month, Haas buys 300 tons of iron castings that it grinds and shapes to build its machine tools. Until recently, all of these castings came from foundries in the United States, but as those foundries have gone out of business, Haas has started to buy castings in Canada. ''We talked about, actually, having our own foundry, maybe in Mexico,'' Mr. Haas said.
 Haas Automation sells its machine tools mostly within the United States, to small and midsize manufacturers engaged not in mass production of standardized products, which are vulnerable to offshoring, but in the making of specialty products that low-cost foreign competitors cannot easily match. But the mix is changing. Forty percent of the $550 million that the company expects in revenue this year is from exports, mostly to Europe, and Mr. Haas says he wants to raise that figure to 60 percent very soon. He expects much of the growth to come from building up exports to Asia -- particularly to China, already the company's fastest-growing market.
 Like Harley's executives, those at Haas count on rising sales to absorb workers idled by automation. Shrinking the work force, they say, would be a last resort. ''I did one mass layoff in '98-'99 and it really harmed the culture,'' said Robert Murray, general manager of the Oxnard factory.
 All Haas machine tools share a basic design, and that commonality helps to hold down production costs. More than 200 engineers and software experts, out of a total work force of nearly 1,100, configure the basic design into 100 models and variants to suit specific customers' needs. So much tinkering could not happen if production was shifted to China, Mr. Murray said. Keeping the whole process in the United States still leaves a profit margin of more than 5 percent of revenue, according to Haas executives.
 Mr. Haas himself is not specific. As the sole owner of a company free of debt, he does not have to answer to Wall Street -- a constraint that contributes to the pressure on other manufacturers to move production offshore in search of lower cost. He marches to a different tune. 
 ''One of the secrets to manufacturing in the United States is that you have a lot of alternatives,'' he said. ''If something gets to be too costly, there's always a way of substituting something else. If your labor costs get to be too expensive, then automate.''

Hiwasse Manufacturing
A Reluctant Step Into Mexico
 J. Richard Derickson, chief executive of Hiwasse Manufacturing, a family-owned concern started by his father, feels the pressure to go overseas in a different way.
 Mr. Derickson and his 70 employees in Jacksonville, Ark., manufacture steel strips used in control panels for stoves, refrigerators and other appliances. General Electric, Whirlpool, Maytag, Electrolux and other appliance makers buy thousands of them for $5 to $10 apiece; Hiwasse had revenue of $8.5 million last year and will have more this year, Mr. Derickson said.
 G.E. is a big customer, and Hiwasse ships not only to its plants in this country but also to those in northern Mexico. No company in Mexico makes the panels, and now G.E. wants Mr. Derickson to put a factory near its Mexican operations. Mr. Derickson says he is setting up shop in Mexico, but reluctantly. Given the efficiencies of his Arkansas plant, he says, he cannot make the control panels less expensively in Mexico, even allowing for shipping costs and lower-wage Mexican labor.
 ''The happiest scenario,'' he said, ''is a sister plant that allows us to work back and forth -- maybe do part of the finishing in Arkansas and send the panels to Mexico for the rest of the work.''
 Given his druthers, Mr. Derickson would probably dispense with the sister plant and stay in America. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Harley-Davidson is among the manufacturers that have largely resisted globalization. Above, Naomi Weaver works on a bike at a plant in York, Pa. (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Gene Haas, above, is president of Haas Automation, which manufactures machine tools at a plant, top, in Oxnard, Calif. At right, Mike Gasperi, a supervisor, prepares a machine for a test cut. (Photo by Ana Elisa Fuentes for The New York Times)(pg. 4)Chart: ''Still the Leader''Measured by ''value added,'' the United States is still the world's largest manufacturer. Its share has decreased by only about one percentage point in more than two decades, although manufacturing employment has declined.Share of worldwide manufacturing value added*Top countries in 2004Net change1982-2004Korea: +3.0%France: -1.4%Germany: -3.5%China: +7.5%Japan: -2.7%United States: -1.1%* ''Value added'' calculates the dollar value created when materials and labor are melded into finished products. (The whole is worth more than the sum of its parts.)(Sources by World Bank
 Economy.com)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%) International Trade and World Market; Ratings and Rating Systems; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Harley-Davidson Motor Co; Haas Automation; Hiwasse Manufacturing

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); YORK, PA, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (85%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (50%) Japan; China; Germany; South Korea; Italy

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



82 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: STORM AND CRISIS

 BODY:

ECONOMIC EFFECTS -- As Gulf Coast residents suffer through a regional economic disaster, the broader American economy has largely withstood the early effects of the storm. PAGE 27

RETRACING THE STORM -- This week New Orleans's biggest fear, a killer hurricane, became a reality, as two levees along Lake Pontchartrain broke, giving way to terror, despair and spasms of violence. PAGE 25

LEVEES BREAK, BARRIERS HOLD -- What the world saw exposed in New Orleans was not just broken levees, but a cleavage of race and class. WEEK IN REVIEW

A NEW OIL CRISIS -- Climbing gas prices and lines at service stations looked familiar to many Americans, a bit like the fallout from the Arab oil embargo in the 1970's. SUNDAY BUSINESS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (88%); GAS STATIONS (85%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



83 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Havana via Woodbridge: Legal Cuban Cigars 

BYLINE: By JOHANNA JAINCHILL

DATELINE: RIDGEWOOD 

 BODY:
THE group of men emerges every Thursday evening, stealing a few moments to head up to the second-floor balcony of the Tobacco Shop in Ridgewood. Once there, the several members of this close-knit smoking club that includes a chiropractor and a printing-company owner relax, some in leather wingback chairs, others leaning on the balcony railing. Their easy conversation and steady laughter are punctuated with short pauses to draw on Pinar cigars, made with imported Cuban tobacco. They savor the richness of a product that is typically considered contraband. 
 But here, it's perfectly legal. 
While the United States embargo imposed in 1962 has prohibited buying or importing Cuban cigars, the makers of Pinars have managed to exploit a loophole: there is no law against buying Cuban tobacco shipped to the United States before Fidel Castro's revolution. 
 As it happens, six years ago the company that makes Pinars, Puros de Armando Ramos in Woodbridge, bought a stash of 46,000 pounds of Cuban tobacco that had been stored in a Florida warehouse for nearly a half century. The total supply is expected to yield about 750,000 cigars -- a blip in an industry that will sell 300 million premium cigars this year, according to the Cigar Association of America.
 The association and Paul Magier, the owner of Puros de Armando Ramos, believe that the company is the only cigar-maker that legally sells Cuban cigars in the United States. The supply will be exhausted in about a year and a half, making the cigars seem all the more rare. 
 They have an earthy, rich and spicy bouquet that comes with leaves grown in Cuba, a country with a 500-year tradition of making cigars, Mr. Magier said.
 ''A good Cuban is not good, it's great,'' said Gary Kolesaire, an owner of the Tobacco Shop where the regulars assemble. ''These are great, and they're legal.''
 Since Mr. Magier (pronounced MAY-jer), who lives in New Brunswick, came across the trove of Cuban tobacco, Puros de Armando Ramos has chosen about 200 buyers at stores across the country, 6 in New Jersey. Despite his cigars' scarcity, Mr. Magier, 48, decided to sell them at relatively affordable prices, in the same range as other premium cigars. At the Tobacco Shop, they cost $12.35 to $16.75 each. His goal, he said, is not to make a lot of money at once, but to stay in the cigar business. 
 ''We will be around longer than the tobacco,'' Mr. Magier said. ''The Pinars put us on the map, but it's a small part of who we are.'' Forty percent of his company revenue is from the Pinars, though they are more expensive than the Ecuadorean cigars he sells. Mr. Magier, a former marketing executive, and Armando Ramos, a cigar roller in Cuba before fleeing the revolution, started Puros de Armando Ramos in 1996. For three years, it sold cigars rolled in Ecuador -- which has a reputation for providing ideal wrappings -- until Mr. Magier found out about the stash in Tampa, after the seller got in touch with him. 
 The cigar leaf was sent from Havana in 1956, 1958 and 1960 and had languished in a climate-controlled warehouse after Murray Grossman, the man who imported it, died and his estate was tied up in probate. In 1985, Jeff Grossman, his son, inherited the tobacco. 
 In 1998, when President Clinton announced that he would ease some restrictions on aid and travel to Cuba, Jeff Grossman was concerned that Cuban cigars would be allowed onto the American market, and he decided to sell. 
 Though the cache was in perfect condition and court documents and appraisers attested to its authenticity, Mr. Magier was still skeptical. ''You can't smoke paperwork,'' he said. The real test for him: an assessment by Mr. Ramos, now 84. Upon inspecting the leaf, he pronounced it authentic. 
 With that, the company entered the Cuban cigar business, exporting the tobacco to its factory in Ecuador and shipping back hand-rolled cigars. 
 At the Tobacco Shop in Ridgefield, Mr. Kolesaire found that convincing customers that the cigars were Cuban was not easy at first. ''I tell people to smoke an inch and smell the bouquet,'' he said. ''It won't lie.''
 Customers seem to agree. Mike Santangelo, 43, a printing-company owner from Mahwah, said of the Pinars, ''They were everything we were hoping they'd be.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Magier's company in Woodbridge uses Cuban tobacco for its Pinar cigars. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TOBACCO STORES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); SMOKING (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Cigars; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: Puros De Armando Ramos (Co)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (55%) Paul Magier; Johanna Jainchill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (92%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



84 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: Katrina's Shock to the System

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
DRIVERS waiting in line for hours, and occasionally in vain, to fill up their tanks. Gasoline prices shooting up 50 percent or more overnight. The president urging everyone to curtail driving and conserve energy at home. Dark rumors of hoarding and market manipulation starting to spread. Economists warning that soaring energy costs will certainly slow economic growth -- and maybe snuff it out completely.
 As those scenes played out across the country last week, they may have looked familiar, a bit like a replay of the fallout from the Arab oil embargo of 30 years ago. Many energy analysts and economists are not surprised. When Hurricane Katrina ripped through the oil rigs and refineries along the Gulf Coast last week, it not only killed at least hundreds of people and caused billions of dollars in damage. It also set off the first oil shock of the 21st century.
''This is a lot like 1973,'' said Daniel Yergin, who wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning history of oil, ''The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power,'' and is the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''Since Monday, we've had a supply shock on top of a demand shock.'' 
 And just as the 1973 crisis led to a global shortage of oil that sent prices soaring and pushed the American economy into recession, today's sudden shortfall of gasoline that is rippling through the economy is likely to slow American growth by as much as a full percentage point. And it leaves global energy markets vulnerable, analysts and economists said.
 For two years, steadily rising prices barely weighed on global economic growth, in part because of the expanding economies of China and the United States, and not from a lack of supply. The price of crude oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange doubled to $66 before the hurricane from $33 a barrel in January 2004. Demand, meanwhile, has grown by more than 2 percent annually over the last two years, twice the average annual pace over the preceding decade.
 Then came Hurricane Katrina. With winds as high as 175 miles per hour, it shut down most offshore platforms and onshore wells in the region -- which accounts for over a quarter of domestic oil production -- and idled 10 percent of the country's refining industry. Those assets may be out of commission for months while the industry scrambles to repair battered platforms and underwater pipelines. But the effects of the current crisis will be felt around the world for much longer. 
 In less than a week, gasoline prices have jumped by as much as 60 cents a gallon, with stations selling premium grades at an average $3 a gallon, according to AAA. On average, gasoline is 50 percent more expensive than it was last year. ''We're in uncharted territory,'' said John Felmy, the chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute, the industry's main trade group. ''We haven't experienced something like this since the 1980's.'' 
 That was when Iran sent oil markets roiling. With the departure of the shah, the establishment of the Islamic revolution, and, in 1981, the start of a long and bloody war between Iran and Iraq, oil exports from the Persian Gulf plummeted, sending oil prices to their highest-ever level of nearly $40 a barrel -- about $86 a barrel in today's dollars. 
 Then, as now, drivers, factories, power plants and others were consuming oil as fast as oil companies could refine crude oil into fuel or other products. Any significant disruption to the supply was quickly magnified in the markets. 
 One problem today is the supply of crude oil. Years of underinvestment in exploration mean that producers now lack the capacity to bolster production in any significant way to make up for intermittent shortages. Even Saudi Arabia, which had millions of barrels of untapped production capability in the 1980's, is now pumping at close to full capacity. 
 But far more important for the current energy crisis, a lack of refining capacity constrains the industry's ability to turn crude oil, even when it is available, into usable products like gasoline or jet fuel.
 The nation's strategic reserve is stocked with enough oil to last about 35 days, and refiners hold an additional 25 days' worth of supplies. But with hurricane-hammered refineries out of business for now, the immediate pinch comes in turning oil into gasoline. The shortage of refineries explains why gasoline futures surged 14 percent last week while crude oil prices gained only 2 percent. Oil touched a high of $70.85 on Wednesday and closed at $67.57 a barrel on Friday; gasoline futures on Nymex, which touched $2.92 a gallon at midweek, ended the week at $2.18.
 From Aug. 26, when platforms were evacuated in anticipation of the storm, until Friday, the total amount of lost oil production was 8.7 million barrels -- or about 1.3 million barrels a day. That's not much compared with what was lost during the Arab oil embargo after the 1973 Yom Kippur war between Egypt and Israel. Then, an embargo on oil shipments to the United States led to a shortage of about five million barrels a day at its worst point, in December 1973. 
 The trouble was that America did not have any spare production capacity at that time, in contrast to the situation six years earlier, during the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. ''Without it,'' Mr. Yergin wrote in ''The Prize,'' ''the United States had lost its critical ability to influence the world oil market.'' 
 Something very similar is happening today. But this time, the United States has no refining capacity to spare. ''The hurricane created a crisis, but the roots of the problem are much deeper than that,'' said Robert Mabro, president of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, and an authority on energy issues. 
 ''The refining system is stretched, with no reserves, no excess capacity, no cushion,'' he said. ''The fundamental problem is that we depend on oil companies that dislike the refining business because of historically low returns but whose deficit can produce an economic, social and political crisis.'' 
 But Mr. Mabro added: ''There is an obligation to supply. For consumers, it's a public utility. If people can't get gas, they become furious, they become violent, they create trouble. Energy is a necessity.''
 No new refinery has been built in the United States since 1976. Over the last quarter-century, the number of refineries has fallen by more than half, to 149. Some, but not all, of that capacity has been made up by expanding or improving existing facilities. Refining capacity has declined by 10 percent, to 17 million barrels a day. 
 Over the same period, however, gasoline consumption has risen by 45 percent, to 9.5 million barrels a day. Domestic consumption of oil, including that used to make gasoline, is more than 20 million barrels a day.
 The 1973 and 1979-80 energy crises revealed how vulnerable industrialized economies were to sudden spikes in oil prices, and to shortages in supplies. Both shocks led to lasting recessions, high inflation and dismal economic prospects. Oil producers realized how powerful the oil weapon could be but they also noticed that it was double-edged. The Arab oil embargo lasted from October 1973 through March 1974. Higher prices quickly led to recessions, which in turn lowered economic activity -- and therefore lowered oil consumption.
 As a sign of the seriousness of the current crisis, Western governments on Friday pledged to release their emergency oil stocks to help plug the oil gap in the United States. The International Energy Agency, which was created in 1974 in the aftermath of the first oil shock, said its members would release two million barrels a day for the next 30 days. This was only the second time that the agency, based in Paris, had taken such a step. The first was in 1991 during the Persian Gulf war. 
 ''This historic response is a remarkable signal of international solidarity in the face of the largest national disaster in America's history,'' said Samuel W. Bodman, the secretary of energy. 
 With all the parallels, there are substantial differences between 1973 and 2005 that might soften the blow to the economy. For example, in the 1970's, oil purchases accounted for twice as large a share of the gross domestic product as they do today. And back then, the American government had price controls on oil as well as an allocation system intended to ensure that all regions were supplied evenly. That system backfired because it kept prices artificially low, thereby encouraging demand when supplies were short. Allocations from the government also did little to move supplies where they were most needed. The results were long lines at the gas pump and shortages in some places but not in others.
 Still, with no government control over either prices or supplies -- and despite the global emergency coordination, the pledges of rising European imports and the loans from American strategic stocks -- the risks to oil markets remain very high, analysts and economists said. The economy may be able to withstand current prices, but energy markets are at the mercy of the slightest glitch anywhere around the globe that can push prices even higher.
 ''If we had a major disruption in supplies elsewhere on top of that we could definitely go to triple-digit oil prices, no problem,'' said Vincent Lauerman, the global energy analyst at the Canadian Energy Research Institute, in Calgary, Alberta. ''What we have right now is a runaway freight train. There's nothing I can see between it and higher prices.''
 The idea of $100-a-barrel oil, which was scoffed at as recently as two weeks ago, is now not so far-fetched. And its effect would be substantial. 
 ''If oil hit $100, it would have quite a debilitating effect,'' said William Hummer, the chief economist at Wayne Hummer Investments. ''The economy would slow to a crawl. We'd have a return to stagflation, that cliche from the 1970's. We'd see a huge cutback in driving. The sacrifices would be severe. It would be another blow to the airlines and the whole transportation sector.'' 
 The Eurasia Group, a political risk consulting firm in New York, identified potential events in nine countries that could send prices higher -- from terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia, to which it gave a 10 percent probability; to unrest by oil workers in Nigeria, a 30 percent probability; or attacks on Iraq's oil industry, with a 50-50 probability. 
 In other words, said Mr. Felmy of the American Petroleum Institute: ''There is no question that this is a global issue. We're all in this together.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cars lined up at a New York City gas station during the Arab oil embargo in 1973. (Photo by Marty Lederhandler/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
A fuel delivery at a travel plaza Wednesday in North Dakota. In less than a week, gasoline prices have jumped by as much as 60 cents a gallon. (Photo by Dave Arntson/Bloomberg News)(pg. 6)Chart: ''A New High Ahead?''The price of gasoline is nearing its inflation-adjusted peak of more than $3 a gallon in 1981.National average, regular unleadedGraph tracks gasoline price per gallon (2005 dollars) and gasoline price per gallon (not adjusted for inflation) since 1970's.(Sources by Energy Information Administration
 AAA)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); HURRICANES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); RECESSION (77%); WEATHER (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; International Trade and World Market; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Refineries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shortages; Futures and Options Trading; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: IHS INC (68%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



85 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: ST. BERNARD PARISH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Damage, Lost Lives and Plaintive Pleas

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and JEREMY ALFORD

DATELINE: CHALMETTE, La., Sept 3 

 BODY:
St. Bernard Parish, just to the east of New Orleans and surrounded by water -- more island than peninsula since Hurricane Katrina -- is nearly empty now, the vast majority of its 68,000 residents scattered to who knows where. 
 Chalmette, the parish seat, was best known as the site of the Battle of New Orleans, one of the last skirmishes in the War of 1812. But in the last few days, Chalmette -- a mostly white, working-class community where two oil refineries, a natural-gas processing plant and some fisheries make up most of the local economy -- has been the scene of a fight for survival. 
According to the three men who run the parish -- the parish president, the sheriff and the fire chief, who said they saw it themselves -- hundreds of residents were killed, including 31 found in a nursing home. Officials said there were 65 residents at the nursing home, St. Rita's, but they could not say how some of them survived while others perished.
 Elsewhere in the parish, the officials said 22 bodies were found bound together in a subdivision. Officials were uncertain of the circumstances, but they said the victims most likely tried to keep together to weather the storm. 
 ''I will never again tell people that help is on the way,'' said Thomas M. Stone, the parish fire chief. ''It's not coming.''
 The problems in St. Bernard Parish are being played out across southeastern Louisiana, where lowlands and a sparse system of highways combined to leave pockets of residents in dire straits and cut off from assistance.
 State officials acknowledged that in the desperate push to save thousands of people in New Orleans, nearby parishes had been overlooked.
 ''If you're not getting info on the area, you have to assume it's bad,'' a spokesman for the Louisiana National Guard, Lt. Col. Pete Schneider, said earlier in the week in an interview in Baton Rouge.
 A group of visitors, including journalists, who were accompanied by a state senator, Walter J. Boasso, were led on a tour of Chalmette, Arabi and other towns on Saturday to try to focus attention on the area. The visitors had to pass three checkpoints staffed by shotgun-wielding police officers, take a ferry across the Mississippi River and board four-wheel-drive vehicles to reach the parish.
 In a telephone interview on Saturday night, Joseph A. Donchess, executive director of the Louisiana Nursing Home Association, said he was told about the deaths at the nursing home on Friday by the Coast Guard, which had sent a reconnaissance team there. ''Thank God, some people did survive,'' Mr. Donchess said. ''Some people were literally plucked out of the water by Coast Guard helicopters and were evacuated to the airport and sent on to Houston.''
 He added, ''This was the most number of deaths in a nursing facility that has been reported to me.''
 St. Bernard, a marshy area, appears to have been particularly hard hit by Hurricane Katrina, but local officials say scores of lives were lost because of the delay in official response. They said they felt all but forsaken by the federal government. 
 ''If anybody should have been prepared for this, it should have been the federal government,'' said Henry J. Rodriguez Jr., the president of the parish government. 
 A few signs of a federal presence in the parish were evident on Saturday. A Navy helicopter landed near a warehouse that has been used to store emergency supplies. But the bulk of the assistance has come, instead, from a hodgepodge of sources: neighboring parishes, state police, boat-owning volunteers and other officials. 
 The presence of authority itself seemed precarious. Mr. Rodriguez and members of the seven-member Parish Council were holed up in an oil refinery.
 The Fire Department has regrouped in the parking lot of a BellSouth building filled with telecommunications equipment. The Sheriff's Department is now based on the Cajun Queen, a ferry boat parked in Arabi. 
 From their separate vantage points, the officials in this forlorn area have been trying to communicate, but with limited success. Sheriff Jack Stephens said a sheriff's substation, one of five in the parish, had been taken over by armed squatters, but Mr. Rodriguez disputed what had occurred at the substation. ''That wasn't civil disobedience, that was people trying to get out of the weather,'' he said. 
 Sheriff Stephens, interviewed on the Cajun Queen, also said federal assistance had been minimal. ''I have Royal Canadian Mounties who have gotten here faster than the federal government,'' he said. ''I have made more life-and-death decisions in the last four or five days than I have in 22 years.'' 
 The Canadians were actually members of a 47-member search-and-rescue team sent from the municipal government in Vancouver, British Columbia. 
 Its members have gone from house to house, extracting survivors who have weathered the storm and its bitter aftermath. At least 200 were identified yesterday, said Terry Nikolai, a member of the Canadian team. 
 Officials were still trying to fathom the devastation. 
 Maj. Pete Tufaro of the Sheriff's Department said 43 people were found dead in the first day of door-to-door checks. It was unclear if that included the dead at the nursing home. 
 Mark Melancon, a firefighter who has been living with colleagues in the BellSouth building, said they had begun shaving their heads at night, in an act of mourning, despair and distraction. ''The number of bodies we're finding is unbelievable,'' he said. 
 Even some people who were able to get to the parish's evacuation centers did not survive. Representative Charlie Melancon, a Democrat who represents the area, said in an interview in Baton Rouge that 100 people in St. Bernard Parish had died while trying to leave, which he attributed to a lack of water and food. 
 Deputies had returned heartbroken after their search missions, pulling naked infants from the water and stacking bodies in the parish jail and courthouse, said Lt. Jeff Lee, of the sheriff's department. ''When we start hitting down the doors, there's no telling what the body count will be,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''In Hurricane Katrina's Path''Plaquemines Parish and St. Bernard Parish are south and east of New Orleans.Map of Gulf Coast highlighting path of Hurricane Katrina.(Source by Census 2000)(pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (88%); NURSING HOMES (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); FISHERIES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (61%); HELICOPTERS (60%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (55%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Jeremy Alford

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Louisiana; Chalmette (La); St Bernard Parish (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



86 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SAVING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: As Rates Climb, the Short-Term C.D. Is Standing Taller

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
ATTENTION, prudent savers. You can now risk a peek at your financial statements. 
 As the Federal Reserve has continued to raise short-term interest rates, returns on money market funds and short-term bank certificates of deposit have been climbing back to respectability. After several years in which Fed policies have tended to benefit spenders, borrowers and investors, now savers are getting their day in the sun.
Many money market funds, which just over a year ago were returning a negligible 0.7 percent, are now inching toward 3.5 percent. And at some banks, savers can now earn close to 4.5 percent on 12- month certificates of deposit, a return that is more than the 4.04 percent yield of the 10-year Treasury note. Many people expect the Fed to raise rates at least one or two more times, so more good news is likely. ''It's the first time in a long time savers will benefit,'' said Jim McDonald, who manages money market funds at T. Rowe Price. 
 But after a tough couple of decades, savers have a lot of ground to make up. 
 While stock investors feasted on the long bull market of the 1980's and 90's, savers were pretty much left in the dust. With the massacre of stocks in 2000 and 2001, many savers reasoned that their time had finally come. But Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, opted to pump money into the economy, repeatedly cutting rates and sending yields on short-term vehicles like savings and checking accounts, money market funds and some C.D.'s into basement-level single digits. Indeed, Mr. McDonald said, for much of the last year, inflation-adjusted returns for many savers have been below zero, meaning that savers were in essence paying financial institutions to use their dollars. By contrast, low rates were a boon to spenders and to borrowers making major purchases like homes and cars. They also improved the outlook for investors by easing balance-sheet pressures on corporations. 
 But since June of last year, Mr. Greenspan has changed course, raising rates 10 times and bemoaning the disinclination of Americans to save. Money market returns, typically with a six-week lag, have mirrored the rate climb. Hence, the T. Rowe Price Summit Cash Reserves fund, with a current seven-day yield of 3.14 percent, is expected to rise an additional 10 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, over the next few weeks to reflect the Fed's latest rate bump. Mr. McDonald expects that future increases by the Fed could push money returns toward 5 percent by the middle of next year. ''The marketplace expects two more 25-basis-point hikes this year. We think the Fed is going to do more than the marketplace is pricing in,'' he said.
 While yields on longer term government bonds remain stubbornly low, the rising rates for money markets and short-term C.D.'s have begun to attract new dollars. Dennis Miars, a real estate developer and investor in San Dimas, Calif., about 25 miles east of Los Angeles, has prospered during the housing boom, but he recently sold his investments in rental properties and has been buying bank certificates of deposit. ''We're finding the C.D. rates are starting to go up and the real estate market is starting to slow down,'' Mr. Miars said.
 Ashwin Adarkar, executive vice president at IndyMac Bank, which is based in Pasadena, Calif., and has 22 branches, said that ''more and more people are getting off the sidelines.'' C.D. deposits at IndyMac, which is now offering a one-year certificate at a compounded rate of 4.2 percent, have doubled over the last year, to $4.6 billion, Mr. Adarkar said.
 At Nexity Bank in Birmingham, Ala., Donald Long, its president, reported a ''marked increase'' in C.D. purchases. Nexity is now offering a 12-month C.D. at 4.3 percent. And at T. Rowe Price, money market fund assets have climbed by roughly $750 million -- on a base of $10.7 billion -- since January. 
 Over all, the flow of cash into money market funds has risen in each of the last three months, the first such string of gains since 2002, according to Lipper, the mutual fund tracker. Until recently, said Donald Cassidy, senior research analyst at Lipper, investors seemed to have a ''cash is trash'' attitude. Now, money funds are attracting cash and equity funds are treading water. Despite the fact that July was a good month for shares, Mr. Cassidy said, flow into equity funds was flat, apart from rising 401(k) distributions.
 A rate of 4 percent may not seem all that attractive to investors who expect stocks to do better. But the flow of money into money market funds may itself augur poorly for stock returns. 
 K. Geert Rouwenhorst, professor of finance at the Yale School of Management, has studied the daily flows of cash into money market and equity funds and found a negative correlation between the two. On days when money pours into stocks, it tends to come out of money market funds, and vice versa. ''People often switch between money market and equity funds assets,'' said Professor Rouwenhorst.
 It may not be surprising that investors, who often use money market funds as checking accounts for stock purchases, would shift money between money market and equity funds. But can sustained flows into money markets actually predict impending declines in equity investment? 
 Andrew Clark, a mathematician and senior research analyst at Lipper, has concluded that they can. ''There is predictive value when money starts flowing into money market funds,'' Mr. Clark said. ''Increased investment in money market funds tends to have a dampening effect on equity fund investment.'' The possibility of investor disinterest leading to flat or sinking stock equity markets makes that 3.5 to 4.5 percent yield even more attractive. 
 Already, many savers are beneficiaries of a curious anomaly that allows them to earn returns that equal or exceed those of long-term investors in Treasury securities. Typically, long-term returns are much higher as investors must be rewarded for locking up their assets over a longer period. But the differential between long and short term rates -- known as the yield curve -- has flattened, a phenomenon that Mr. Greenspan has called a ''conundrum.'' The Fed has been raising short-term rates but does not control long-term rates, and these have simply not tracked higher. 
 What could sour this rare moment of triumph for savers? A significant housing slowdown would curtail mortgage loan demand and eliminate some of the jockeying among banks to attract assets with high C.D. rates. And a slowing of the overall economy would cause the Fed to stop raising, or to even begin lowering rates. 
 One final threat comes from abroad. Dollar-rich foreign central banks, particularly those of China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, have been major buyers of long-term Treasuries. What if these giant lenders, mindful of increasingly appealing short-term rates, start shifting more of their assets into short-term instruments? ''If there was a concerted effort by foreign central banks to buy more short-term Treasuries, that could depress short-term rates and raise long-term rates,'' said Mr. Clark, the Lipper analyst. 
 But Mr. Miars, the California real estate developer, isn't worried. ''I'm advising my kids to pick up C.D.'s,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashwin Adarkar of IndyMac Bank says that ''more and more people are getting off the sidelines'' and buying certificates of deposit. His bank pays 4.2 percent on a one-year C.D. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)Chart: ''In Lock Step''Money market yields closely follow the Fed's interest rate moves.Graph tracks Federal funds target rate and Money market funds yield (taxable, monthly averages) since 1999.(Sources by iMoneyNet
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CLIMBING (77%) Banks and Banking; Certificates of Deposit; Savings; Interest Rates; Money Market Funds

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Indymac Bancorp

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Ashwin Adarkar; Norm Alster

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



87 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-16

Gunmen Kill 19 in Iraq
Insurgents staged a attacks on Iraqi police and army patrols and checkpoints north of Baghdad, killing 19 people and wounding at least six in some of the worst guerrilla violence the country has seen in weeks. 4

Campaigning Ends in Egypt
Egypt's first multicandidate campaign for the presidency is drawing to a close, wrapping up an unprecedented 19 days of public challenges to the ruling party's monopoly on power, which set off a political awakening throughout the country. 14

A Warning to North Korea
Two American congressmen returning from the North Korea's capital, Pyongyang, warned the government there that an American public traumatized by Hurricane Katrina was in no mood for more lengthy negotiations over the North's nuclear program. 3

A U.S. Push Regarding Israel
The Bush administration, hoping to strengthen Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in the Israeli turmoil after the Gaza withdrawal, is urging allies of the United States to refrain from pressing Israel to make new concessions to Palestinians, senior American officials said. 14

China Commemorates a Victory
China commemorated the 60th anniversary of Japan's World War II defeat, saying ''the just had prevailed against the evil.'' But China foreswore any military ambitions. President Hu Jintao used the occasion to emphasize that China's economic and military power is not directed against Japan or the United States, despite a budding rivalry with both countries. 16

Abducted Briton Found Dead
A British engineer, David Addison, who was abducted three days ago in Afghanistan, has been killed by the Taliban, the British government said. 9

NATIONAL 21-22

Chief Justice Rehnquist Dies
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist died of the thyroid cancer he had battled for nearly a year, opening a second Supreme Court vacancy just days before Senate confirmation hearings were to begin to fill the seat being vacated by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. 1

STORM AND CRISIS 25-32

Bush Promises More Troops
President Bush said he had ordered 7,000 additional troops deployed to New Orleans and the Gulf Coast States to crack down on lawlessness and evacuate thousands of refugees. Some crises have eased. 1

Five days after Hurricane Katrina, thousands of exhausted evacuees from New Orleans bused to the Astrodome in Houston lay on cots staring numbly, playing cards, reading the Bible, or aimlessly pacing. 25

Michael Chertoff, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, gave his most detailed explanation to date for the troubled federal response to Hurricane Katrina. 26

Psychologists who study disasters say that the social anarchy, and the scale and duration of the watery assault on New Orleans and surrounding areas, will have an emotional impact that could last far beyond this hurricane season, and the next, for many residents. 26

St. Bernard Parish, just to the east of New Orleans and surrounded by water, appears to have been particularly hard hit by Hurricane Katrina, but local officials say that scores of lives were lost because of the delay in official response. 1

OBITUARIES 38-39

 William H. Rehnquist
Jurist who helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 notably successful years as chief justice of the United States, he was 80. 1

NEW YORK/REGION 33-37

 Democrats Seek Voter Interest
The four major Democratic candidates for mayor of New York find themselves struggling anew to interest voters in their anti-Bloomberg messages that have been eclipsed for months by the mayor's popularity and now by Hurricane Katrina. 33

Chess 37
Weather 18

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page Political Memo article on Sunday about efforts by President Bush to head off a political crisis over his administration's handling of Hurricane Katrina misstated the city where he said he enjoyed himself ''occasionally too much,'' a comment that was criticized as being insensitive. It was New Orleans, not Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); HURRICANES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SHOOTINGS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WEATHER (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); REFUGEES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); CANCER (50%); THYROID CANCER (50%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HU JINTAO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); EGYPT (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (93%); JAPAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



88 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Dream State: The Wily Art of Selling Florida

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
''Panhandle'' is one of those geographic terms, like ''tundra'' or ''mud flats,'' that are not well suited to selling real estate. It smacks of homelessness, or kitchen drudgery. As a signifier of mystery and romance, it vastly underachieves. 
 But what about ''the Great Northwest''? As in: ''RiverCamps on Crooked Creek, a New Ruralist settlement in the Great Northwest.'' That's not just poetry -- it's a killer sales brochure. It sets the mind to basking in mountain sunshine, in a world of buffalo and sagebrush and stonewashed denim. Those lots would sell for sure.
You should know, though, that this ''Great Northwest'' we speak of is in Florida. On the Panhandle. Or rather, it is the Panhandle, the largest chunk of unsprawled-upon real estate left in Florida, now that developers on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts are practically choking on their own subdivisions. 
 The St. Joe Company, Florida's largest private landowner, wants to sell huge portions of its 800,000 acres on the Panhandle. The trouble is, much of the property is inland, scrubby and hard to reach. Its woods and swamps are hot, sticky and full of bugs. 
 That's where ''the Great Northwest'' and ''New Ruralism'' come in, joining ''rich Corinthian leather'' and ''Chilean sea bass'' on the evil-genius list of corporate coinages. ''New Ruralism'' is a particularly wily invention. Unlike ''New Urbanism,'' a philosophy that arose to oppose the cities' sprawl, ''New Ruralism'' was invented to move product. Or, as the St. Joe Company put it in a news release: '''New Ruralism' Diversifies Product Line, Adds Value to Rural Land Holdings.''
 The convergence of delusion and desire in sun-kissed Florida is as old as Ponce de Leon. The Marx Brothers joked about the Florida land boom as long ago as 1929, in ''The Cocoanuts.'' (''You can have any kind of a home you want,'' said Groucho, as a shady auctioneer. ''You can even get stucco. Oh, how you can get stucco.'') The worthless Florida lots hustled by desperate Chicago salesmen every night on Broadway come with the most alluring names: ''Glengarry Highlands'' and ''Glen Ross Farms.'' 
 St. Joe, through its meticulously designed and marketed faux-rural developments with names like RiverCamps, SummerCamp and WaterColor, is taking such salesmanship to a higher level. It isn't deceit, really. It's more the artful harnessing of consumer appetites to invent a more appealing reality.
 Groucho would have been impressed. He did, after all, try to pull pretty much the same trick in ''The Cocoanuts'': 
 ''Why, it's the most exclusive residential district in Florida,'' he said. ''Nobody lives there.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MOUNTAINS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Real Estate; Advertising and Marketing; Misleading and Deceptive Advertising

COMPANY: ST JOE CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: St Joe Co

TICKER: JOE (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (93%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (93%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (93%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (93%)

PERSON: Lawrence Downes

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (97%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (97%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



89 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; NFL PREVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: Ironing Out the Wrinkles

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Terrell Owens had been sent into his pump-up-the-volume exile. Another wide receiver had been lost for the season with a torn Achilles' tendon. One defensive lineman was holding out in a contract dispute. Another had been shot in the stomach during a robbery attempt. One running back had held out because he was unhappy with his contract. Another had such a bad knee that he would eventually have season-ending surgery. 
 A rough year for a football team? No, just another summer at the Philadelphia Eagles training camp.
In the past five years, the Eagles and their opponent in last February's Super Bowl, the New England Patriots, have defined a quality just as critical to sustained success in the National Football League as a reliable quarterback and a run-stuffing defense: unwavering stoicism. 
 Coaches Andy Reid and Bill Belichick, with their dour countenances and monotone speech patterns, may lack charisma before the camera, but it is their implacability that puts a public face on their teams' resilience. The Patriots have won three of the past four Super Bowls, and the Eagles have been to four consecutive National Football Conference championship games by staring calamity in the face and shrugging. 
 Viewed from the outside, this off-season produced an unusually high level of tumult for both teams. Helicopters circled Owens's house after he was sent home from training camp. Camera crews staked out a hospital where one popular Patriots player, linebacker Tedy Bruschi, recuperated from a stroke. Belichick lost both of his longtime coordinators. The Eagles have had one personnel bump after another. 
 But as the teams endured sweltering training camps last month, they were studies in stolidness. On the day after he sent Owens away for a week, Reid told reporters that he would have to talk to his star receiver before allowing him to return. And then he said little more, sending the signal to his team that it was time to move on, even as the soap opera played out on Owens's front lawn. Belichick, when asked why his team handled turmoil so well, looked blankly at the questioner. 
 ''What are you going to do?'' he said. ''Sit around and have a group therapy session? It's like that every week.''
 So it is, in a league that is constructed precisely to instigate orderly disorder. Belichick is correct when he notes that every team goes through change every season because of the salary cap and free agency, injuries and the whims and egos of professional athletes. But every team does not go through it and win with such regularity. 
 That is what sets the Patriots and the Eagles apart. 
 The Eagles won the N.F.C. East by an astounding seven games last season. Only if Reid had sent himself home from training camp would they have seemed at risk of falling that far back to the pack. This is a franchise that recovered from the loss of quarterback Donovan McNabb to a broken ankle in the middle of the 2002 season to reach the N.F.C. championship game, and that made it to the last Super Bowl after Owens had broken his leg late in the regular season. Even Owens's voluble preseason and the loss of receiver Todd Pinkston and running back Correll Buckhalter to season-ending injuries seem manageable. 
 When the Eagles were deciding whether to acquire Owens last year, they factored in the possibility that he would become as much of a nuisance to them as he was to San Francisco. They gambled that the just-the-facts-ma'am approach that the Eagles used in the rest of their business would mitigate Owens's outbursts. But when Owens criticized McNabb's Super Bowl performance, and then demanded a new contract, the Eagles gave a lesson in how the hard-line approach they routinely applied to contract negotiations could be deployed in a crisis. They refused to rework his contract, announced they would not trade him and sent a letter to him detailing his transgressions. 
 If the problem was not exactly solved, it was at least defused for the time being. Owens returned, and if he and McNabb will not be spending holidays together this season, they at least have found they can coexist in an uncomfortable silence. In Owens's first preseason game, he caught 5 passes for 131 yards from McNabb -- without either acknowledging the other. 
 ''We think as an organization it's crucial for everybody we deal with to know we mean what we say,'' said the Eagles' president, Joe Banner. ''Sometimes we recognize that frustrates people, but generally they respect and feel better about at least knowing where you're coming from.''
 The Eagles backed up their words last week, jettisoning defensive end Corey Simon, who had been holding out after having been tagged the franchise player.
 For the Patriots, the loss of the defensive coordinator Romeo Crennel (to Cleveland) and the offensive coordinator Charlie Weis (to Notre Dame) is certainly less dramatic than Owens's meltdown. But it could be just as vexing for the Patriots, who had enjoyed enviable stability in their coaching and front-office staffs until now. 
 Still, Belichick's stamp will remain on a defense now led by Eric Mangini, and Belichick has not even bothered to name an offensive coordinator, although the quarterbacks coach Josh McDaniels is expected to call the plays. Perhaps this is a chance for Belichick's inner Bill Walsh to emerge. Whether the offense immediately runs as smoothly as it did for Weis remains to be seen. But compared to the wave after wave of crises that have crashed over the Patriots in recent years, even this experiment is but a ripple. 
 This is a team that, in the three years it won Super Bowls, endured the death from cancer of one coach, the loss of the starting quarterback in the second game of the season (to be replaced by a little-known sixth-round pick named Tom Brady), the release of the All-Pro safety Lawyer Milloy five days before a season opener, so many injuries that starters missed a combined 87 regular-season games, and a public spat between Belichick and the former Patriots cornerback Ty Law.
 The Giants' general manager, Ernie Accorsi, compares Belichick to Vince Lombardi and says Reid is the most underrated coach in the league. And he gives them all the credit for handling so much upheaval with so much aplomb. More than ever, the turnover that occurs every football season places a premium on coaching. 
 ''You don't see any fluke coaches getting to the Super Bowl,'' Accorsi said. ''It requires bringing a team together and teaching them. I've always felt the most important people in sports are N.F.L. coaches. In this era, it's their ability to organize and teach their team.'' 
 Belichick, with his gray sweatshirt and economics degree, has little taste for melodrama. He approaches each problem with a straightforward pragmatism, never indulging in anything approaching emotionalism.
 When Milloy was released in a salary cap move in 2003, several Patriots players were furious, and the Patriots were crushed in the season opener by Milloy's new team, the Buffalo Bills. But the pity party ended there, and the Patriots rattled off 12 consecutive regular-season victories on the way to the Super Bowl. Last season, when Weis accepted the Notre Dame job in December, creating the potential for a distraction when he missed days of practice leading up to the playoffs while he recruited for the Irish, Belichick told players that Weis had landed the head job and that he would remain with New England until their season was done. End of discussion. 
 ''They address it; they don't labor over it,'' tight end Christian Fauria said. ''They don't take a whole hour meeting and talk about that one thing for 45 minutes. 'This is the situation. This is what's going on. Here's what we're going to do about it.' You can talk to deathabout anything. At some point, there has to be an end, and you have to move on with your life.''
 Banner learned that lesson when he was the first person to reach Reid in the locker room after the Eagles found out McNabb had broken his ankle in 2002. 
 ''His whole reaction was: 'That's a bad break. That's unfortunate. We will be absolutely fine.''' Banner recalled. ''I was like, 'What?'''
 He added: ''I actually believed he could will all the people following him to believe that, and once you believe that, it has a real chance of being true, even if it shouldn't have been. Leaders are selling ideas.''
 They are also selling consistency, which players come to rely on when trouble strikes. Patriots center Dan Koppen says he believes Belichick is a master at keeping things simple for players, helping them create tunnel vision by giving them just a few keys to winning each game and shouldering the rest of the worries himself. 
 It is the same approach Reid takes. When a problem arises, he quickly addresses it with the team or sometimes with a group of team leaders. He draws the curtain down in public. 
 ''Just look at him on game day,'' Eagles safety Brian Dawkins said during training camp, in the middle of the Owens psychodrama. ''If we're down 14 points, if we're down 10 points, he doesn't get flustered. His facial expression doesn't change. He's even-keel; he doesn't panic. And that's the same thing he brings as far as addressing us. There is no panic in his voice.''
 Perhaps Owens, then, has already learned from the Eagles how to handle his own crisis. Silver noise-canceling headphones became his accessory of choice during his tumultuous summer.
 Reid and Belichick will not need to borrow them anytime soon. They already know how to keep the clamor down. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Patriots linebacker Tedy Bruschi, left, who will miss the season after having a stroke, tackling Donovan McNabb, the Eagles' quarterback, in the Super Bowl. (Photo by Chris O'Meara/Associated Press)
(Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)
Sent home from camp, Eagles receiver Terrell Owens provided the news media with an intriguing sideshow. But he returned to preseason action looking sharp. (Photo by Associated Press)
 The Patriots' Bill Belichick, center, said farewell to his coordinators, Charlie Weis, left, and Romeo Crennel. Weis now coaches Notre Dame and Crennel the Browns. (Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); ATHLETES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); SHOOTINGS (57%); ROBBERY (57%); HELICOPTERS (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (94%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



90 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; TECHNO FILES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Why the Internet Isn't the Death of the Post Office

BYLINE: By JAMES FALLOWS. 
James Fallows is a national correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly. E-mail: tfiles@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
MILLIONS of people now rent their movies the Netflix way. They fill out a wish list from the 50,000 titles on the company's Web site and receive the first few DVD's in the mail; when they mail each one back, the next one on the list is sent.
 The Netflix model has been exhaustively analyzed for its disruptive, new-economy implications. What will it mean for video stores like Blockbuster, which has, in fact, started a similar service? What will it mean for movie studios and theaters? What does it show about ''long tail'' businesses -- ones that amalgamate many niche markets, like those for Dutch movies or classic musicals, into a single large audience? 
But one other major implication has barely been mentioned: what this and similar Internet-based businesses mean for that stalwart of the old economy, the United States Postal Service. 
 Every day, some two million Netflix envelopes come and go as first-class mail. They are joined by millions of other shipments from online pharmacies, eBay vendors, Amazon.com and other businesses that did not exist before the Internet. 
 The eclipse of ''snail mail'' in the age of instant electronic communication has been predicted at least as often as the coming of the paperless office. But the consumption of paper keeps rising. (It has roughly doubled since 1980, with less use of newsprint and much more of ordinary office paper.) And so, with some nuances and internal changes, does the flow of material carried by mail. On average, an American household receives twice as many pieces of mail a day as it did in the 1970's. 
 ''Is the Internet hurting the mails, or helping?'' asks Michael J. Critelli, a co-chairman of the public-private Mail Industry Task Force. ''It's doing both.'' Mr. Critelli's day job is chief executive of Pitney Bowes -- yes, that Pitney Bowes, once known for its postage meters and now a ''mail and document management'' company. In the last few years, it has also functioned as a research group for the mail industry, commissioning a series of studies, available free at PostInsight.PB.com, that contain startling findings about the economic, technological and cultural forces that affect use of mail.
 The harmful side of the Internet's impact is obvious but statistically less important than many would guess. People naturally write fewer letters when they can send e-mail messages. To leaf through a box of old paper correspondence is to know what has been lost in this shift: the pretty stamps, the varying look and feel of handwritten and typed correspondence, the tangible object that was once in the sender's hands. To stay in instant touch with parents, children and colleagues around the world is to know what's been gained.
 But even before e-mail, personal letters had shrunk to a tiny share of the flow. As a consultant, Fouad H. Nader, wrote in a Pitney Bowes study, personal mail had ''long ago been reduced to a minimum with the proliferation of telephone services in the last 50 years.'' 
 Personal letters of all sorts, called ''household to household'' correspondence, account for less than 1 percent of the 100 billion pieces of first-class mail that the Postal Service handles each year. Most of that personal mail consists of greeting cards, invitations, announcements and other mail with ''emotional content,'' a category that is generally holding its own. 
 The same higher-income households that rely the most on e-mail correspondence also send and receive the most letters. Whatever shrinkage e-mail has caused in personal correspondence, it is not likely to do much more.
 The Internet and allied technologies, meanwhile, are increasing the volume of old-fashioned mail in three ways.
 The first follows the Netflix example: Postal Service fulfillment of transactions made on the Internet. About two million prescriptions a day -- roughly one-fifth of the total -- are delivered by first-class mail. EBay's vendors list five million new items daily, and those that are sold ship mainly by mail. One Pitney Bowes study found that online retailers were increasingly using paper catalogs sent through the mail to steer people to their sites.
 The second force also involves finance. Many studies conclude that people are more and more willing to make payments online, but that they strongly prefer to receive the original bills on paper, by mail.
 Since the late 1980's, mail to households from credit card companies has risen about 10 percent a year. Americans' financial lives have become more complicated, in part because of choices created by the Internet. In turn, banks, telecommunication companies, insurance companies and investment houses send more mail.
 Third is the sleeper: the increasing sophistication of the Postal Service's own technology. Everyone takes for granted that FedEx and the United Parcel Service can track the movement of each item through their systems. The Postal Service has now installed similar scanning equipment, and in principle it can bar-code and scan every envelope or postcard and know where it is at any time. In reality, it does this mainly for a fee, for businesses that want to know their material has reached the right audience at the right time -- for instance, the Thursday before a weekend sale at a local store.
 In Internet terms, this and related improvements are intended to make advertising mail less like spam -- unwanted and discarded -- and more like embedded ads, tied to the content of a particular Web site.
 ''Over time, there is an increasing ability to send you only what's interesting to you, at a time when you're interested in it,'' Mr. Critelli says. If you have just moved, for example, that may mean mail from your new area's window-cleaning or handyman services. He says response rates to these targeted mailings are better than the dismal rates for the usual direct-mail campaigns.
 The most touching artifact among these mail studies is a survey conducted by the Postal Service and called ''The Mail Moment.''
 ''Two-thirds of all consumers do not expect to receive personal mail, but when they do, it makes their day,'' it concluded. ''This 'hope' keeps them coming back each day.'' Even in this age of technology, according to the survey, 55 percent of Americans said they looked forward to discovering what each day's mail might hold.
 Now I'll confess my bias. My first real job was at the post office. On the days when I was paroled from the sorting floor to substitute for an absent letter carrier, I felt as if I was bringing the ''mail moment'' to people along the route. It's nice to think that such moments will survive the Internet.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Lensch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); NEWSPRINT (70%); DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); THEATER (58%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (92%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); PITNEY BOWES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (92%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); PBI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (92%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



91 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Is a Hedge Fund Shakeout Coming Soon? This Insider Thinks So

BYLINE: By MARK GIMEIN

 BODY:
OF all the sectors of the financial universe, the hedge fund world is probably the most secretive and almost certainly the most alluring. Open only to institutions and the wealthy, hedge funds offer sophisticated models of risk, access to the best financial minds and the chance for outsized returns. According to Van Hedge Advisors, hedge fund assets have topped a trillion dollars.
 The downside, unfortunately, is that occasionally the industry may be subject to catastrophic and unexpected losses. In 1998, many top hedge fund managers lost their shirts. Long Term Capital Management came close to collapse. Just last month, investors were reminded of exactly this kind of possibility with the apparent failure of a $400 million Connecticut hedge fund managed by the Bayou Group.
Andrew W. Lo, a finance professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has been studying hedge fund failures and risks, and he says that another hedge fund industry shakeout is likely in the near future. Mr. Lo runs a company, AlphaSimplex, that manages a $400 million hedge fund -- so he is not looking for a reason to say hedge funds are in trouble. But that is exactly what he's saying, backing it up with powerful data and a couple of unexpected theories. 
 Mr. Lo has been working on the economics of hedge funds since the mid-1990's, but he started thinking seriously about how to measure risk across the industry in 1999, when he was first approached by backers to start his own hedge fund; it opened in 2003. He knew that sophisticated investors would want lots of data about his fund's returns and about the risk level he would assume, so he started looking carefully at the return data provided by other funds.
 Traditionally, economists have thought that big up-and-down fluctuations in returns indicated risky investments, so many hedge fund investors have hoped to see a pattern of smooth and even returns. But Mr. Lo quickly saw that lots of hedge funds were posting returns that were just too smooth to be realistic. Digging deeper, he found that funds with hard-to-appraise, illiquid investments -- like real estate or esoteric interest rate swaps -- showed returns that were particularly even. In those cases, he concluded, managers had no way to measure their fluctuations, and simply assumed that their value was going up steadily. The problem, unfortunately, is that those are exactly the kinds of investments that can be subject to big losses in a crisis. In 1998, investors retreated en masse from such investments.
 Now, in a paper to be published by the University of Chicago, Mr. Lo, working with his graduate students, has come to a disturbing conclusion: that smooth returns, far from proving that hedge funds are safe, may be a warning sign for the industry. (The paper is at http://web.mit.edu/alo/www/Papers/systemic2.pdf.) 
 That doesn't necessarily hold true for every individual fund, but as Mr. Lo shows in his paper, measuring the smoothness of returns gives economists a good way to estimate the level of relatively illiquid investments in the hedge fund world. The approach lets economists measure industrywide liquidity risks without knowing the details of the investments -- information that hedge funds just don't give out.
 By Mr. Lo's measures, hedge fund investments are less liquid now than they have been in 20 years. His work shows that the same pattern of investing preceded the 1998 global hedge fund meltdown and the 1987 stock market crash.
 But that's not the only reason for worry. He says that crises like that of 1998 may be more predictable than was previously thought -- and that another crisis is likely.
 The 1998 panic is generally thought to have been set off by the Russian government's default on its debt. But Mr. Lo points out that only a minuscule proportion of the world's hedge fund investments were in Russian government bonds.
 In his paper, he shows that the catastrophic losses of 1998 were preceded by a noticeable series of months of mediocre performance. Mr. Lo argues that while a hedge fund crisis appears to be sudden and to be caused by unforeseen events, the breakdown is only the late stage of the problem. As more hedge funds compete for the same slice of the pie, he says, their managers feel that they have no choice but to ''leverage up,'' juicing their returns by borrowing more money to make bigger investments.
 That, in turn, makes the investments more prone to a sudden credit crisis. Hedge funds that are highly leveraged are vulnerable to having their lenders -- banks and big brokerage firms -- cut off credit when they think that their money may be at risk. And Mr. Lo thinks that lenders would do exactly that in an industrywide downturn. That would force hedge funds to close out their positions at the worst possible time -- the kind of cycle that brought down Long Term Capital Management.
 Here again, his data suggests that the current situation is serious. His research indicates that the industry may have already entered a period of lower returns that signal a prelude to crisis. He points to a downturn in April that hit virtually every category of hedge fund pursuing every kind of strategy.
 ''The concern that I and others have is that we're approaching the perfect financial storm where all the arrows line up in one direction,'' Mr. Lo said. The more money that is invested in hedge funds, he said, ''the bigger the storm will be.''
 What might set off a crash is a matter of guesswork. Mr. Lo thinks that an oil-price increase to $100 a barrel, a level predicted by one Goldman Sachs analyst, could do it. Or , he said, a tightening of lending rules at Fannie Mae, the mortgage giant, could set off a ''humongous unwinding'' in credit markets. But Mr. Lo, who refers to some of his research as ''measuring how strong the camel's back is and how much straw is already on it,'' thinks that the spark could be something much smaller.
 ALREADY, his work has prompted hedge fund managers and investors to pay more attention to the hidden risks of funds that seem to be performing quite well. Clifford S. Asness, managing principal at AQR Capital Management, a large and successful hedge fund based in Greenwich, Conn., says Mr. Lo's work forces fund managers in general to confront the risks: ''He demonstrates simple models that generally show a winning payoff but occasionally really die.'' 
 So what should be done? Mr. Lo sees no way to eliminate the cyclical nature of hedge fund investing, but he says we can learn from the mistakes of funds that fail. He advocates the creation of a financial equivalent of the teams at the National Transportation Safety Board that swoop in to investigate airplane crashes.
 The nightmare script for Mr. Lo would be a series of collapses of highly leveraged hedge funds that bring down the major banks or brokerage firms that lend to them. That's a possibility that the entire hedge fund industry -- secretive and fractious though it is -- has a huge interest in avoiding.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew W. Lo of M.I.T. says he has found warning signs for the hedge fund industry. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



92 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: CHECKING IN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: More Hotels for a Comeback City 

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ABBOTT

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

 BODY:
FOR years, there were just a few hotels in this capital city. They took in visitors during the city's good times and bad, hanging on during its bleaker years like children on a roller coaster ride.
 But times are no longer lean here. Flush with capital from investors who don't like the stock market's returns and who see Providence as an underserved market with a growing future, developers are racing to build new hotels in the city. 
Five major hotel projects have been announced or recently opened, including the addition of a 31-story, 200-room tower to a Westin hotel, the conversion of a crumbling Masonic Temple into a 274-room Renaissance and construction of a downtown hotel with more than 200 rooms. 
 This year, an 80-room boutique hotel opened in the heart of the city's old retail district, a warren of narrow streets and historic buildings. Simply named Hotel Providence, it was created by combining two buildings, which were renovated and luxuriously furnished by Stanley Weiss, a Providence developer and antiques connoisseur.
 An upgrade is also planned for the Holiday Inn, a stalwart in the city. It is to become a high-end Hilton with 40 additional rooms, under plans by the owner, the Procaccianti Group of Cranston, R.I., a hotel development and management company. 
 The hotel will be dressed up with new facades, a new roof design, a 10,000-square-foot ballroom and a three-story glass atrium. Next to the hotel, the developer plans to build a 17,000-square-foot fitness center as well as shops, restaurants and other attractions geared toward pedestrian traffic.
 Still other projects are being discussed. Carpionato Properties Inc. of Johnston, R.I., may build a new Holiday Inn where the city's Farmers' Market once was, according to John Kokot, executive vice president for development. And Procaccianti recently bought controlling interest in two parcels in Providence that had been intended for hotel development by their previous owner. 
 The latter projects are not sure things. But add together the projects that are certain, and the city's tally of hotel rooms is climbing by 850. 
 Two important factors are driving the boom, developers and others said. One is the availability of financing for new hotels, a commodity that tends to be cyclical in nature. ''You have a tremendous amount of money looking for real estate opportunities,'' said Michael McMahon, the director of the Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation. 
 Brad Robinette, a senior vice president at Sage Hospitality Resources of Denver, the developer behind the Masonic Temple project, said, ''The capital markets are strong; you see it across the country.'' Sage is partially financing its project with state and federal tax credits for historic properties. The Hotel Providence also qualified for tax breaks. 
 The second factor behind the boom is a strong demand for hotel rooms. No hotels were built in the city during its nadir in the 1970's and 80's, when businesses fled downtown with the opening of suburban shopping malls and office parks. In that period, ''nothing happened,'' recalled Thomas Deller, Providence's planning director. 
 The dry spell was broken with the opening of the state-financed Westin in the early 1990's, followed in 2000 by the opening of a Courtyard by Marriott, with 216 rooms. They joined three stalwarts: the Biltmore, the Holiday Inn and the Marriott. But demand continued to outpace supply as Providence's efforts to remake itself took off.
 Providence's hotel occupancy rate in 2004 was 73 percent, about 10 percentage points higher than the national average, according to George Donnelly, vice president for marketing at the Providence Warwick Convention and Visitors Bureau. The Westin's room price can sometimes reach $380 a night. 
 BUT how many hotel rooms are enough? In Providence, no one seems to know the magic number. ''I wouldn't be so cavalier to say it doesn't concern us,'' Mr. Kokot said.
 The location of Carpionato's new hotel -- in a downtown site, two blocks from the new Providence Place Mall, the centerpiece of an intense economic revival effort -- should, however, guarantee its success, he said.
 Carpionato's plan calls for a 15- to 20-story tower with stores and restaurants at ground level, parking on Levels 2 through 7, some 200 to 250 hotel rooms above the parking, and condominiums on top. The hotel's brand has not yet been determined, but Intercontinental has expressed interest, Mr. Kokot said. 
 Sage has liked the Providence market for some time and is confident about its future, Mr. Robinette said. It expects to draw 100,000 tourists a year to the Renaissance, a high-end member of the Marriott family, with packages that feature performances at Veterans Memorial Auditorium, which is next door, and arts institutions. 
 State and city officials acknowledge that there could be a challenge in filling all the rooms.'' I think there's a lot of pressure, but it's good pressure,'' said James P. McCarvill, executive director of the Rhode Island Convention Center Authority, a quasi-governmental agency responsible for booking conventions, trade shows and other events into the Rhode Island Convention Center, next to the Westin.
 For years, the authority has clamored for more hotel rooms in Providence, saying a lack of accommodations was preventing it from booking large conventions and shows. It did not have a big-enough block of rooms within walking distance of the convention center, Mr. McCarvill said.
 To address this problem, the authority decided to sell the Westin, which was built with money from the state to complement the convention center. There was one condition: the new owner had to add 200 rooms. The highest bidder was Procaccianti, which already owned the Holiday Inn. It agreed this year to pay $95.5 million for the property. 
 With more than 30 hotels nationwide, Procaccianti specializes in renovating and expanding hotels. Its purchase of the Westin is part of a larger plan to spruce up a single downtown block. The Westin is at one end of that block, and the Holiday Inn at the other.
 To further that goal, the company recently bought a controlling interest in the former Providence police and fire station, opposite the Holiday Inn, and the Fogarty Building down the street. Although city officials have suggested that turning them into hotels may not be wise at this point, David Preston, a spokesman for the Procaccianti Group, said Procaccianti would consider a number of uses -- including hotels.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hotel Providence, opened this year, was created by combining two buildings. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)
A rendering of a 31-story tower planned at the Westin, top, and the old Masonic Temple, to become a Renaissance. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Tangram 3DS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESORTS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Hotels and Motels; Finances; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: PROCACCIANTI GROUP (92%); SAGE HOSPITALITY RESOURCES LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Westin Hotels & Resorts

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Abbott

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (96%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Providence (Ri) 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



93 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: The Supply Side Vs. the Other Side

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
Jude Wanniski, the political economist, journalist and polemicist who coined the term ''supply-side economics,'' died last week -- on the same day that the Census Bureau reported that the poverty rate rose and the median income of Americans fell, even as the economy grew.
 The governing theory of supply-side economics is that slashing taxes on capital gains and income would jolt the economy into life, benefiting people at every level, raising income and ultimately unleashing a gusher of revenue. And in recent years, Washington has engaged in something of a supply-side experiment, as President Bush and Congress have enacted tax cuts on capital gains, corporate dividends and income taxes. 
But job and income growth haven't materialized so far. On Tuesday, the government released data showing that for the second straight year pretax real median household income failed to grow. Meanwhile, the official poverty rate rose from 12.5 percent in 2003 to 12.7 percent in 2004. And on Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy added 169,000 jobs in August: not bad, but nothing to write home about.
 Do last week's figures prove that Mr. Wanniski's theory does not work as advertised? Or are there other explanations?
 For liberal economists, the data prove that supply-side economics has failed to deliver under Mr. Bush, just as it did when President Ronald Reagan applied it in the 1980's. Rising corporate profits and dividend payments clearly haven't trickled down into gains for people who don't own companies or stock, says Dean Baker, co-director at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, in Washington. ''The wage gains,'' Mr. Baker said, ''are concentrated in the upper-income level, just as they were in the 1980's.'' 
 Nor have the reduced taxes on capital and income stimulated significant job growth. A central tenet of the supply-side creed holds that lowering taxes increases the incentives for people to work. But Mr. Baker notes that the employment-to-population ratio -- the percentage of adults who are working -- is still lower than it was in 2001. Mr. Baker does not predict that things will improve anytime soon.
 Conservative economists argue that it is too soon to reach a definitive conclusion. Far from being over, they say, the supply-side revolution is just beginning to work its magic. ''Typically, when we have a recession, median incomes fall for a three- to four-year period,'' said Brian Wesbury, an economist and chief investment strategist at Claymore Advisors, in Lisle, Ill. 
 Besides, the data may be somewhat flawed. ''The income figures don't include any capital gains, and they don't include the value of real estate,'' Mr. Wesbury said. Finally, the figures are pretax numbers. And adjusted for the lower tax rates, median household take-home pay did rise in 2004. ''My forecast,'' Mr. Wesbury said, ''is that next year, pretax median household income will increase after adjustment for inflation.'' DANIEL GROSS


GRAPHIC: Photo: No Trickle -- Proof that supply-side economics doesn't work? Or too soon to tell? (Photo by Hector Mata/Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CENSUS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WRITERS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DIVIDENDS (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%) United States Economy; Income

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (66%); GUGGENHEIM FUNDS DISTRIBUTORS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%) Census Bureau

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Daniel Gross; Jude Wanniski

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



94 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: The Bursting Point

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com; Nicholas D. Kristof is on vacation.

 BODY:
As Ross Douthat observed on his blog, The American Scene, Katrina was the anti-9/11.
 On Sept. 11, Rudy Giuliani took control. The government response was quick and decisive. The rich and poor suffered alike. Americans had been hit, but felt united and strong. Public confidence in institutions surged. 
 Last week in New Orleans, by contrast, nobody took control. Authority was diffuse and action was ineffective. The rich escaped while the poor were abandoned. Leaders spun while looters rampaged. Partisans squabbled while the nation was ashamed.
 The first rule of the social fabric -- that in times of crisis you protect the vulnerable -- was trampled. Leaving the poor in New Orleans was the moral equivalent of leaving the injured on the battlefield. No wonder confidence in civic institutions is plummeting. 
 And the key fact to understanding why this is such a huge cultural moment is this: Last week's national humiliation comes at the end of a string of confidence-shaking institutional failures that have cumulatively changed the nation's psyche. 
 Over the past few years, we have seen intelligence failures in the inability to prevent Sept. 11 and find W.M.D.'s in Iraq. We have seen incompetent postwar planning. We have seen the collapse of Enron and corruption scandals on Wall Street. We have seen scandals at our leading magazines and newspapers, steroids in baseball, the horror of Abu Ghraib.
 Public confidence has been shaken too by the steady rain of suicide bombings, the grisly horror of Beslan and the world's inability to do anything about rising oil prices.
 Each institutional failure and sign of helplessness is another blow to national morale. The sour mood builds on itself, the outraged and defensive reaction to one event serving as the emotional groundwork for the next.
 The scrapbook of history accords but a few pages to each decade, and it is already clear that the pages devoted to this one will be grisly. There will be pictures of bodies falling from the twin towers, beheaded kidnapping victims in Iraq and corpses still floating in the waterways of New Orleans five days after the disaster that caused them. 
 It's already clear this will be known as the grueling decade, the Hobbesian decade. Americans have had to acknowledge dark realities that it is not in our nature to readily acknowledge: the thin veneer of civilization, the elemental violence in human nature, the lurking ferocity of the environment, the limitations on what we can plan and know, the cumbersome reactions of bureaucracies, the uncertain progress good makes over evil. 
 As a result, it is beginning to feel a bit like the 1970's, another decade in which people lost faith in their institutions and lost a sense of confidence about the future. 
 ''Rats on the West Side, bedbugs uptown/What a mess! This town's in tatters/I've been shattered,'' Mick Jagger sang in 1978.
 Midge Decter woke up the morning after the night of looting during the New York blackout of 1977 feeling as if she had ''been given a sudden glimpse into the foundations of one's house and seen, with horror, that it was utterly infested and rotting away.''
 Americans in 2005 are not quite in that bad a shape, since the fundamental realities of everyday life are good. The economy and the moral culture are strong. But there is a loss of confidence in institutions. In case after case there has been a failure of administration, of sheer competence. Hence, polls show a widespread feeling the country is headed in the wrong direction.
 Katrina means that the political culture, already sour and bloody-minded in many quarters, will shift. There will be a reaction. There will be more impatience for something new. There is going to be some sort of big bang as people respond to the cumulative blows of bad events and try to fundamentally change the way things are.
 Reaganite conservatism was the response to the pessimism and feebleness of the 1970's. Maybe this time there will be a progressive resurgence. Maybe we are entering an age of hardheaded law and order. (Rudy Giuliani, an unlikely G.O.P. nominee a few months ago, could now win in a walk.) Maybe there will be call for McCainist patriotism and nonpartisan independence. All we can be sure of is that the political culture is about to undergo some big change. 
 We're not really at a tipping point as much as a bursting point. People are mad as hell, unwilling to take it anymore. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); BED BUGS (70%); BOMBINGS (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Terrorism; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (88%) David Brooks; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (90%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



95 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: As Anxiety Over Storm Increases, Bush Tries to Quell Political Crisis 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ADAM NAGOURNEY; Richard W. Stevenson contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Faced with one of the worst political crises of his administration, President Bush abruptly overhauled his September schedule on Saturday as the White House scrambled to gain control of a situation that Republicans said threatened to undermine Mr. Bush's second-term agenda and the party's long-term ambitions.
 In a sign of the mounting anxiety at the White House, Mr. Bush made a rare Saturday appearance in the Rose Garden before live television cameras to announce that he was dispatching additional active-duty troops to the Gulf Coast. He struck a more somber tone than he had at times on Friday during a daylong tour of the disaster region, when he had joked at the airport in New Orleans about the fun he had had in his younger days in Houston. His demeanor on Saturday was similar to that of his most somber speeches after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
''The magnitude of responding to a crisis over a disaster area that is larger than the size of Great Britain has created tremendous problems that have strained state and local capabilities,'' said Mr. Bush, slightly exaggerating the stricken land area. ''The result is that many of our citizens simply are not getting the help they need, especially in New Orleans. And that is unacceptable.'' 
 The president was flanked by his high military and emergency command: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
 As Mr. Bush spoke, Vice President Dick Cheney and Karl Rove, the president's senior political adviser, listened on the sidelines, as did Dan Bartlett, the counselor to the president and Mr. Bush's overseer of communications strategy. Their presence underscored how seriously the White House is reacting to the political crisis it faces.
 ''Where our response is not working, we'll make it right,'' Mr. Bush said, as Mr. Bartlett, with a script in his hand, followed closely.
 His speech came as analysts and some Republicans warned that the White House's response to the crisis in New Orleans, which has been widely seen as slow and ineffectual, could further undermine Mr. Bush's authority at a time when he was already under fire, endangering his Congressional agenda.
 Mr. Chertoff said Saturday: ''Not an hour goes by that we do not spend a lot of time thinking about the people who are actively suffering. The United States, as the president has said, is going to move heaven and earth to rescue, feed, shelter'' victims of the storm.
 The White House said Mr. Bush would return to Louisiana and Mississippi on Monday, scrapping his plans for a Labor Day address in Maryland. The rest of Mr. Bush's schedule next week was in flux.
 The White House also postponed a major visit to Washington next week by President Hu Jintao of China. In a statement issued on Saturday, the White House said both Mr. Hu and Mr. Bush had agreed that ''in the present circumstances, it was best not to have'' the meeting, which would have demanded much of the president's attention over the next days on growing difficulties between the United States and China over trade frictions, North Korea's nuclear program and China's military buildup.
 The last-minute overhaul of the president's plans reflected what analysts and some Republicans said was a long-term threat to Mr. Bush's presidency created by the perception that the White House had failed to respond to the crisis. Several said the political fallout over the hurricane could complicate a second-term agenda that includes major changes to Social Security, the tax code and the immigration system.
 ''This is very much going to divert the agenda,'' said Tom Rath, a New Hampshire Republican with ties to the White House. ''Some of this is momentary. I think the Bush capital will be rapidly replenished if they begin to respond here.''
 Donald P. Green, a professor of political science at Yale University, said: ''The possibility for very serious damage to the administration exists. The unmistakable conclusion one would draw from this was this was a massive administration failure.'' 
 And Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, urged Mr. Bush to quickly propose a rebuilding plan for New Orleans and the rest of the Gulf Coast, arguing that an ambitious gesture could restore his power in Congress.
 ''If it's done right, it adds energy to the rest of his agenda,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''If it's done wrong, it swamps the rest of his agenda.''
 The silence of many prominent Democrats reflects their conclusion that the president is on treacherous political ground and that attacking him would permit the White House to dismiss the criticism as partisan politics-as-usual, a senior Democratic aide said.
 Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, disputed the notion that Mr. Bush's long-term political viability was endangered and said Saturday that he was confident the administration would be able to push ahead successfully with its second-term agenda. ''There are a number of priorities, and we will address all of them,'' he said.
 For all the enormity of the destruction and the lingering uncertainty about how many years it will take to ''rebuild the great city of New Orleans,'' as Mr. Bush said in his remarks on Saturday, some Republicans suggested that the impact could prove fleeting in this age of fast-moving events, and that Mr. Bush's visit to the region on Friday had helped some in addressing concerns about his response.
 ''Next Tuesday the Roberts hearings start, and that's going to occupy a significant part of the daily coverage,'' said Richard N. Bond, a former Republican chairman, referring to the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Judge John G. Roberts Jr.
 But others said the damage could prove enduring, and they warned that the inevitable battery of official investigations into what went wrong could further erode support for the war in Iraq if it turned out that the deployment of National Guard units to Iraq had contributed to the slow response. They said any thought that memories of New Orleans will fade would be checked by gas prices that spiked as Louisiana refineries shut down, particularly given that there was already evidence that rising gas prices were hurting Mr. Bush's political standing.
 Beyond that, some Republicans said the perception among some blacks that the White House had been slow to respond because so many victims were poor and African-American undercut what had been one of the primary initiatives of the new Republican chairman, Ken Mehlman: making an explicit appeal for support among black voters, a constituency that has traditionally been overwhelmingly Democratic. 
 ''Given the racial component of this, and given the current political environment, there certainly seems to be a high level of risk to this story,'' said a Republican Party official, who, citing the concern among party officials about the criticism, would only discuss the question on the condition of not being identified.
 But Mr. Bush, reflecting concern within the White House about the president's standing among blacks, notably said in his radio address that ''we have a responsibility to our brothers and sisters all along the Gulf Coast, and we will not rest until we get this right and the job is done.''
 Both Republicans and Democrats noted that the reaction to the crisis has been nothing like what happened after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when both parties joined in a bipartisan show of unity in the face of a clear andidentifiable outside threat.
 Hurricane Katrina struck at a time, they said, when Mr. Bush was already in a weakened state, with his approval rating in many national polls at the lowest level of his presidency and his political capital in Washington diminishing.
 The shifting dynamics on Capitol Hill was clear as Congress returned to Washington to allocate billions of dollars for the relief effort. Congressional leaders suggested that the White House needed to reconsider its legislative agenda. ''This is not going to help Social Security,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois. ''And it was already on its last legs.''
 Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the Republican whip, said it would be a mistake to abandon efforts to reduce the estate tax, arguing that was precisely what the economy needed to grow. But he said he thought the White House might reconsider what it wanted this fall.
 ''I think the administration needs to be thinking about what their agenda is for the fall,'' he said. ''And I'm sure there will be some re-evaluation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush delivering his weekly radio address yesterday from the Rose Garden, amid wide criticism for the way he has handled relief efforts. (Pool photo by Dennis Brack)(pg. 27)
 President Bush with Donald H. Rumsfeld, the defense secretary. (Pool photo by Dennis Brack)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); HURRICANES (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Blacks; Discrimination; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (58%); MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%); KARL ROVE (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La); Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



96 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Congressmen Tell North Korea to End Standoff

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Two members of Congress returning on Saturday from a visit to North Korea warned the country's government that an American public traumatized by Hurricane Katrina was in no mood for any more lengthy negotiations over North Korea's nuclear program.
 The congressmen -- Representative Tom Lantos, a California Democrat, and Representative Jim Leach, an Iowa Republican -- said they had urged North Korean officials to dispense with any belabored negotiating tactics and quickly agree on a statement of shared principles when the six-nation nuclear talks resume, as expected, later this month.
 ''In view of Hurricane Katrina, the attention of the country will for quite some time shift to domestic issues,'' Mr. Lantos said he told North Korean officials. He said a ''dilatory diplomatic performance'' by North Korea would anger the American public. 
 ''They should come back and, in short, reach agreement on principles,'' Mr. Lantos said.
 He said North Korean officials did raise what has become a major impasse in the talks, namely their desire to maintain the right to build nuclear power plants. The North Koreans have insisted that any statement of shared principles should not prohibit them from pursuing a ''peaceful'' nuclear program. The United States has opposed such a program, in light of North Korea's past deceptions about its nuclear ambitions. 
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Lantos suggested that a discussion about nuclear energy should be postponed until after the countries taking part in the talks agree on a broad statement of principle.
 ''Their concern about civilian use of nuclear energy may be reopened at a later stage,'' Mr. Lantos said.
 The two congressmen left Beijing on Tuesday and held four days of meetings with North Korean officials at what is a critical moment in the nuclear standoff. The fourth round of the six-nation talks was suspended after participants failed to agree on the joint statement of principles. The agreement is a broadly worded document that is supposed to help steer future disarmament talks.
 The talks also include China, Japan, South Korea and Russia. The sense of urgency has intensified since earlier this year when North Korea declared for the first time that it possessed nuclear weapons. The United States has threatened to ask the United Nations Security Council to impose penalties if North Korea does not agree to resolve the crisis. North Korea, in turn, has equated sanctions with a declaration of war.
 The talks had been scheduled to resume earlier this week but North Korea backed out, blaming military exercises between South Korea and the United States. North Korea now appears ready to return to talks in Beijing on Sept. 12 or Sept. 13.
 Mr. Lantos characterized the visit as ''cordial'' and noted that he and Mr. Leach met at length with several top North Korean officials, including the country's top nuclear negotiator, Kim Kye Gwan; the foreign minister, Paek Nam Sun; and Gen. Li Chan Bok of the North Korean Army.
 The two congressmen also met with aid groups that provide food and other support to the North Korean people. In the past week, North Korean officials informed the groups that they should finish their aid work by the end of the year and begin focusing their energies on economic development.
 Such a move could have dire ramifications for North Korea, where foreign observers say much of the population often suffers from severe hunger. Mr. Lantos said that while it was unclear whether North Korea was bluffing, he had warned officials that such tactics would probably backfire because international development groups were subjected to much oversight and regulation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); POWER PLANTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); DISARMAMENT (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism

PERSON: TOM LANTOS (79%) Jim Yardley; Tom (Rep) Lantos; Jim (Rep) Leach

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (86%) IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (86%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (79%) North Korea; China; South Korea; Russia; Japan; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



97 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Plum Island's Fate? Possibilities Abound

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
SIX years ago, when the United States Department of Agriculture broached the possibility of upgrading the research laboratories at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center to study lethal diseases transmitted by animals, most elected officials recoiled and many residents said the risk of deadly viruses' escaping was too great.
 The plan, which quietly sank from view, would have made the 840-acre island off the tip of Orient Point the only Biosafety Level 4 animal laboratory in the country (Level 4 is the highest security level for labs).
 Now the possibility is back. The Department of Homeland Security, which took control of the island in 2003, is conducting a yearlong study to determine whether the lab at Plum Island has a future as a $450 million center to defend against the use of biological agents to harm the nation's food supply (also referred to as agroterrorism) or perhaps no future at all. 
 At stake is the fate of 100 scientists and administrators, 100 support workers and a government installation with an annual budget of $38.4 million. The lab is variously regarded as a sinister threat to public health and safety and an economic pillar for the North Fork. 
 In the suddenly changed circumstances, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, a Democrat of New York, and Representative Timothy Bishop, a Democrat of Southampton, are leading efforts to assure that Plum Island survives, but only at its current Biosafety Level 3 designation. 
 Any Level 4 labs that may be needed should go elsewhere, said Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop, who have been critical of lab safety at Plum Island in the past. 
 But whether Homeland Security would accept this condition is unknown. And local officials -- including the Greenport mayor, David Kapell, and the Southold town supervisor, Thomas Wickham -- said that they would support a Level 4 lab on the island because it would allow needed research and, as a new facility, would be safer.
 Others see a future for a cleaned-up Plum Island without labs as a stellar addition to Suffolk County's open space or immensely valuable real estate for private development.
 The $23 million Homeland Security study, revealed in an announcement on Aug. 23 that caught Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Bishop and other elected officials flatfooted, will weigh Plum Island and other unnamed locations as sites for a new National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility. 
 Under one option, the new center would be equipped with Level 4 labs where researchers in protective suits would probe some of the most lethal viruses known.
 The Department of Homeland Security said the new center, to open in 2011, would replace the aging Plum Island laboratory established 50 years ago. Scientists at the lab study foreign animal viruses, including foot-and-mouth disease. 
 The department said the laboratory was at the end of its useful cycle, too expensive to maintain and too small for expanding research. The Agriculture Department and the Department of Health and Human Services are taking part in the study.
 Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, has agreed to meet with Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop to discuss his department's plans. They wrote to him on Aug. 24 to ''strongly question the idea of relocating this facility from Plum Island, and question the underlying assumptions that have led your officials to believe this would make fiscal or policy sense.'' 
 In a separate letter to Mr. Chertoff dated Aug. 25, Senator Charles Schumer, a Democrat of New York, agreed that substantial upgrades were needed at the Plum Island laboratory but said ''it goes a step too far to call for its closure.'' He said he had serious concerns about a Level 4 lab on the island.
 Steve Levy, the county executive in Suffolk, said he, too, had ''reservations about going to a Level 4, especially without adequate information provided to local officials or the local community.'' 
 Some people say they see no future for the Plum Island center. 
 Mr. Kapell, the Greenport mayor, said that Mr. Bishop and Mrs. Clinton were unrealistic in expecting that the Department of Homeland Security would agree to build on Plum Island without Level 4 capabilities. ''If a lab like that is not allowed to grow, it is going to die, and that is exactly what is happening,'' Mr. Kapell said. 
 Mr. Bishop said he took Homeland Security at its word that the study options would include upgrading Plum Island but keeping it as a Level 3 laboratory. ''I do not consider this to be a done deal,'' he said.
 He also pointed out that federal law allowed foot-and-mouth virus only on Plum Island, a location selected because of its remoteness from domestic animal herds. 
 A decision to close the lab could end a long federal presence on Plum Island. In 1897, the government bought 130 acres on its west end for Fort Terry, an artillery post that guarded against naval attack during the Spanish-American War. After serving as a lookout post for German U-boats in World War II, the fort was deactivated, but it was reactivated in 1952 for animal disease research by the Army and the Agriculture Department, and, some believe, for biological warfare research. The Agriculture Department acquired the entire island in 1954.
 If it closed the lab, the Department of Homeland Security would be responsible for cleaning up and dismantling the buildings. The extent of any cleanup is not known. 
 The island could then be transferred to the General Services Administration, which could hold it, give it to a local government like Suffolk County's or sell it at auction. 
 Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, said the General Services Administration generally canvassed local governments before auctioning surplus land. ''I would certainly like to see Suffolk County become the owner,'' he said. 
 Mr. Koppelman said he preferred that the lab remain on the island because of the economic importance of its jobs to eastern Long Island. 
 Enzo Morabito, the director of real estate development for Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate in Southold and Bridgehampton, said that an acre on the shore of Plum Island would sell for more than $1 million, house not included.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Department of Homeland Security is conducting a study to determine the future of Plum Island. (Photo by United States Department of Agriculture)Map of Suffolk County, Long Island, highlighting Plum Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VIRUSES (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (78%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) Animals; Research; Terrorism; Biological and Chemical Warfare

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%) Plum Island Animal Disease Center (NY); Homeland Security Department

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TIMOTHY H BISHOP (79%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Timothy (Repr) Bishop; John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Plum Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



98 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Falluja Floods the Superdome

BYLINE: By Frank Rich

 BODY:
AS the levees cracked open and ushered hell into New Orleans on Tuesday, President Bush once again chose to fly away from Washington, not toward it, while disaster struck. We can all enumerate the many differences between a natural catastrophe and a terrorist attack. But character doesn't change: it is immutable, and it is destiny. 
 As always, the president's first priority, the one that sped him from Crawford toward California, was saving himself: he had to combat the flood of record-low poll numbers that was as uncontrollable as the surging of Lake Pontchartrain. It was time, therefore, for another disingenuous pep talk, in which he would exploit the cataclysm that defined his first term, 9/11, even at the price of failing to recognize the emerging fiasco likely to engulf Term2. 
 After dispatching Katrina with a few sentences of sanctimonious boilerplate (''our hearts and prayers are with our fellow citizens''), he turned to his more important task. The war in Iraq is World War II. George W. Bush is F.D.R. And anyone who refuses to stay his course is soft on terrorism and guilty of a pre-9/11 ''mind-set of isolation and retreat.'' Yet even as Mr. Bush promised ''victory'' (a word used nine times in this speech on Tuesday), he was standing at the totemic scene of his failure. It was along this same San Diego coastline that he declared ''Mission Accomplished'' in Iraq on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln more than two years ago. For this return engagement, The Washington Post reported, the president's stage managers made sure he was positioned so that another hulking aircraft carrier nearby would stay off-camera, lest anyone be reminded of that premature end of ''major combat operations.'' 
 This administration would like us to forget a lot, starting with the simple fact that next Sunday is the fourth anniversary of the day we were attacked by Al Qaeda, not Iraq. Even before Katrina took command of the news, Sept. 11, 2005, was destined to be a half-forgotten occasion, distorted and sullied by a grotesquely inappropriate Pentagon-sponsored country music jamboree on the Mall. But hard as it is to reflect upon so much sorrow at once, we cannot allow ourselves to forget the real history surrounding 9/11; it is the Rosetta stone for what is happening now. If we are to pull ourselves out of the disasters of Katrina and Iraq alike, we must live in the real world, not the fantasyland of the administration's faith-based propaganda. Everything connects.
 Though history is supposed to occur first as tragedy, then as farce, even at this early stage we can see that tragedy is being repeated once more as tragedy. From the president's administration's inattention to threats before 9/11 to his disappearing act on the day itself to the reckless blundering in the ill-planned war of choice that was 9/11's bastard offspring, Katrina is deja vu with a vengeance. 
 The president's declaration that ''I don't think anyone anticipated the breach of the levees'' has instantly achieved the notoriety of Condoleezza Rice's ''I don't think anybody could have predicted that these people would take an airplane and slam it into the World Trade Center.'' The administration's complete obliviousness to the possibilities for energy failures, food and water deprivation, and civil disorder in a major city under siege needs only the Donald Rumsfeld punch line of ''Stuff happens'' for a coup de grace. How about shared sacrifice, so that this time we might get the job done right? After Mr. Bush's visit on ''Good Morning America'' on Thursday, Diane Sawyer reported on a postinterview conversation in which he said, ''There won't have to be tax increases.''
 But on a second go-round, even the right isn't so easily fooled by this drill (with the reliable exception of Peggy Noonan, who found much reassurance in Mr. Bush's initial autopilot statement about the hurricane, with its laundry list of tarps and blankets). This time the fecklessness and deceit were all too familiar. They couldn't be obliterated by a bullhorn or by the inspiring initial post-9/11 national unity that bolstered the president until he betrayed it. This time the heartlessness beneath the surface of his actions was more pronounced. 
 You could almost see Mr. Bush's political base starting to crumble at its very epicenter, Fox News, by Thursday night. Even there it was impossible to ignore that the administration was no more successful at securing New Orleans than it had been at pacifying Falluja.
 A visibly exasperated Shepard Smith, covering the story on the ground in Louisiana, went further still, tossing hand grenades of harsh reality into Bill O'Reilly's usually spin-shellacked ''No Spin Zone.'' Among other hard facts, Mr. Smith noted ''that the haves of this city, the movers and shakers of this city, evacuated the city either immediately before or immediately after the storm.'' What he didn't have to say, since it was visible to the entire world, was that it was the poor who were left behind to drown. 
 In that sense, the inequality of the suffering has not only exposed the sham of the relentless photo-ops with black schoolchildren whom the president trots out at campaign time to sell his ''compassionate conservatism''; it has also positioned Katrina before a rapt late-summer audience as a replay of the sinking of the Titanic. New Orleans's first-class passengers made it safely into lifeboats; for those in steerage, it was a horrifying spectacle of every man, woman and child for himself.
 THE captain in this case, Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, was so oblivious to those on the lower decks that on Thursday he applauded the federal response to the still rampaging nightmare as ''really exceptional.'' He told NPR that he had ''not heard a report of thousands of people in the convention center who don't have food and water'' -- even though every television viewer in the country had been hearing of those 25,000 stranded refugees for at least a day. This Titanic syndrome, too, precisely echoes the post-9/11 wartime history of an administration that has rewarded the haves at home with economic goodies while leaving the have-nots to fight in Iraq without proper support in manpower or armor. Surely it's only a matter of time before Mr. Chertoff and the equally at sea FEMA director, Michael Brown (who also was among the last to hear about the convention center), are each awarded a Presidential Medal of Freedom in line with past architects of lethal administration calamity like George Tenet and Paul Bremer. 
 On Thursday morning, the president told Diane Sawyer that he hoped ''people don't play politics during this period of time.'' Presumably that means that the photos of him wistfully surveying the Katrina damage from Air Force One won't be sold to campaign donors as the equivalent 9/11 photos were. Maybe he'll even call off the right-wing attack machine so it won't Swift-boat the Katrina survivors who emerge to ask tough questions as it has Cindy Sheehan and those New Jersey widows who had the gall to demand a formal 9/11 inquiry. 
 But a president who flew from Crawford to Washington in a heartbeat to intervene in the medical case of a single patient, Terri Schiavo, has no business lecturing anyone about playing politics with tragedy. Eventually we're going to have to examine the administration's behavior before, during and after this storm as closely as its history before, during and after 9/11. We're going to have to ask if troops and materiel of all kinds could have arrived faster without the drain of national resources into a quagmire. We're going to have to ask why it took almost two days of people being without food, shelter and water for Mr. Bush to get back to Washington. 
 Most of all, we're going to have to face the reality that with this disaster, the administration has again increased our vulnerability to the terrorists we were supposed to be fighting after 9/11. As Richard Clarke, the former counterterrorism czar, pointed out to The Washington Post last week in talking about the fallout from the war in Iraq, there have been twice as many terrorist attacks outside Iraq in the three years after 9/11 than in the three years before. Now, thanks to Mr. Bush's variously incompetent, diffident and hubristic mismanagement of the attack by Katrina, he has sent the entire world a simple and unambiguous message: whatever the explanation, the United States is unable to fight its current war and protect homeland security at the same time.
 The answers to what went wrong in Washington and on the Gulf Coast will come later, and, if the history of 9/11 is any guide, all too slowly, after the administration and its apologists erect every possible barrier to keep us from learning the truth. But as Americans dig out from Katrina and slouch toward another anniversary of Al Qaeda's strike, we have to acknowledge the full extent and urgency of our crisis. The world is more perilous than ever, and for now, to paraphrase Mr. Rumsfeld, we have no choice but to fight the war with the president we have.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HURRICANES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); WEATHER (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); AL-QAEDA (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); LAKES (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); RELIGION (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); COUNTRY MUSIC (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); FRANK RICH (59%) Frank Rich; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



99 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 5432 words

HEADLINE: Political Science

BYLINE: By Daniel Smith. 
Daniel Smith has written for The Atlantic Monthly, Granta and n+1 and is at work on a book about the history and science of hearing voices.

 BODY:
When Donald Kennedy, a biologist and editor of the eminent journal Science, was asked what had led so many American scientists to feel that George W. Bush's administration is anti-science, he isolated a familiar pair of culprits: climate change and stem cells. These represent, he said, ''two solid issues in which there is a real difference between a strong consensus in the science community and the response of the administration to that consensus.'' Both issues have in fact riled scientists since the early days of the administration, and both continue to have broad repercussions. In March 2001, the White House abruptly withdrew its support for the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, and the U.S. withdrawal was still a locus of debate at this summer's G8 summit in Scotland. And the administration's decision to limit federal funds for embryonic-stem-cell research four years ago -- a move that many scientists worry has severely hampered one of the most fruitful avenues of biomedical inquiry to come along in decades -- resulted in a shift in the dynamics of financing, from the federal government to the states and private institutions. In November 2004, Californians voted to allocate $3 billion for stem-cell research in what was widely characterized as a ''scientific secession.'' 
 Yet what remains most divisive, according to Kennedy, is not the Bush administration's specific policies, but a more general sense that ''scientific conclusions, reached either within agencies or by people outside of government, are being changed for political reasons by people who have not done the scientific work.'' It is this sense that science is being ''misused'' that has given rise to two Congressional bills.
 In late June, Senator Richard J. Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, introduced the Restore Scientific Integrity in Federal Research and Policymaking bill. Many on the right interpreted the move as little more than a clever bit of partisan grandstanding. ''This all comes out of the Kerry campaign's attempt to spin the legitimate efforts of the administration to monitor scientific reports,'' Robert Walker, a Republican lobbyist and former chairman of the House Science Committee, told me. Even scientists, the ostensible beneficiaries of the bill, expressed little enthusiasm. ''It won't get very far,'' said Kurt Gottfried, a Cornell physicist and chairman of the Union of Concerned Scientists, based in Cambridge, Mass., which has been highly critical of the Bush administration. ''We've come to have a cynical attitude about what can happen in this government.'' 
 Both sides have reason to be skeptical. The bill -- which aims to put an end to the censorship and alteration of government scientific information and to the application of litmus tests in making advisory appointments -- is nearly identical to one introduced in February by Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat, that has been languishing in the House. And though Durbin's bill is also sponsored by such formidable Democratic figures as Hillary Rodham Clinton and Harry Reid, the Senate minority leader, it has about as much chance as Waxman's does of becoming law. Yet, as some have noted, the mere fact that it has appeared in the Senate points to the deep political rift over differences between the scientific community and the White House.
 The notion that there is a widespread ''misuse'' of science first gained its force from a series of instances in which administration officials have, as Gottfried and others see it, ''broken with an unwritten code of scientific conduct.'' Two of these instances, widely publicized by watchdog groups and reporters, have taken on almost metonymic significance. In 2002, William R. Miller, a prominent psychologist, was asked during an interview for a position on a National Institutes of Health advisory panel on drug abuse if he had voted for Bush. He replied that he had not. He was subsequently denied the appointment. (The administration maintains that the decision was made for other reasons.) Then, in June 2003, The New York Times reported that White House officials had demanded that a reference to a study in an Environmental Protection Agency report showing sharp increases in global temperatures be replaced by a reference to a study financed in part by the American Petroleum Institute that questioned those increases. According to a widely circulated internal memo, switching the studies and deleting other references to the human contribution to global climate change would have meant that the report no longer accurately represented scientific consensus. Rather than make the changes, the E.P.A. removed the entire section on global warming from its report, which focused solely on the environment. In and of themselves, neither of these instances was unusual; all administrations, according to Daniel Sarewitz, a former Congressional staff member and director of the Consortium for Science, Policy and Outcomes at Arizona State University, seek to some extent to mold scientific evidence to fit their political agendas. But scientists like Gottfried contend that the ''scope and intensity'' of the episodes under Bush are unprecedented.
 It falls to John H. Marburger III, the president's science adviser, to respond to complaints like Gottfried's, and he has consistently maintained that they are a distortion of the administration's position. Recently, however, observers have noted that even he seems unusually insistent on reaffirming the scientific facts. While a guest of the Princeton Environmental Institute this spring, he responded to a question about the Kyoto Protocol by stating: ''Global warming exists, and we have to do something about it. And what needs to be done is to reduce CO2.'' His remarks were quickly picked up by intrepid administration-watchers. Chris Mooney, a science journalist and author of ''The Republican War on Science,'' wrote, ''I don't think the president has ever stated the facts so plainly -- has he?'' And in February, Marburger responded to a question about intelligent design by stating categorically, ''Intelligent design is not a scientific theory.'' More visibly, he used much the same phrasing when he was asked by a Times reporter last month to respond to the president's endorsement of teaching intelligent design in schools. 
 When I spoke with Marburger in late August, several months after I first met him, he was adamant that his comments had carried not even a tinge of rebellion. ''At least I haven't noticed any change in myself,'' he said with some amusement. ''I still don't think there are any administration policies that are in conflict with science or with the way nature works.''
 This has been Marburger's stance since Bush's first term. Many scientists, based on what they knew about him, had hoped for something different. Though a delay in appointing Marburger led to speculation about the administration's commitment to science -- his appointment was not finalized until nine months into Bush's first term, and when it was, his position was stripped of the title assistant to the president, a designation it held since Bush's father's presidency -- his resume dovetailed with the concerns of the scientific community. A 64-year-old physicist, academic and university administrator, Jack Marburger was a lifelong Democrat and was widely regarded as a deft conciliator.
 Whatever hopes scientists harbored for Marburger, however, were dealt a severe blow after the Union of Concerned Scientists issued a report in February of last year charging that the administration's political agenda had permeated ''the traditionally objective, nonpartisan mechanisms through which the government uses scientific knowledge in forming and implementing public policy.'' A petition appended to the report and signed by more than 60 pre-eminent scientists, including 20 Nobel laureates -- among them Harold Varmus, former director of the National Institutes of Health -- accused the administration of ''systematically'' manipulating scientific findings. There were those who hoped that Marburger would tender his resignation in a show of solidarity; instead, he emerged in defense of the administration, claiming that the U.C.S. report was ''wrong and misleading'' and insisting that his employers had applied ''the highest scientific standards in decision making.'' These statements alienated many scientists (Howard Gardner, a Harvard cognitive psychologist, went so far as to call Marburger a ''prostitute'' on National Public Radio), and the protests quickly grew more partisan. In June 2004, 48 Nobelists released a letter endorsing John Kerry, and several months later, a political action group, Scientists and Engineers for Change, arranged a series of lectures by prominent scientists in key battleground states, in a show of force that recalled the vehement opposition of the scientific community to the presidential candidacy of Barry Goldwater in 1964.
 Bush's success in the election did little to tamp down scientific activism. The U.C.S. has continued to publicize instances in which politics seems to be intruding on science, and the original petition has garnered more than 7,000 additional signatures. The organization has also teamed up with Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, a nonprofit Washington-based watchdog group, to produce a series of surveys tracking political interference, both real and perceived, with government employees in federal agencies. And in June, the American Civil Liberties Union released a report, ''Science Under Siege,'' charging that post-9/11 security measures have imperiled the country's technical competitiveness by restricting access to equipment and documents and obstructing the movement of foreign scientists. 
 To many in the scientific community, it is unfathomable that Marburger would risk his reputation by staying on and continuing to defend the administration. Others see the fact that he has remained in office as indicative of nothing more than the very real compromises involved in formulating science policy. ''If you haven't been there and lived in the White House, and thought deeply about your role and the ethical dilemmas you incur, such as whether or not to resign, then it might be quite difficult to understand what's happened with Marburger,'' says Neal Lane, Bill Clinton's second science adviser and a prominent supporter of the U.C.S. petition. Those who have worked closely with Marburger agree that his response is based on a careful cost-benefit analysis. ''The choice is between Jack and a Neanderthal,'' says one former Bush administration official, whose livelihood still depends on the federal government and thus spoke to me on the condition of anonymity. ''The scientific community will never understand that.''
 For Marburger, what is at stake is less complicated and less political. He insists that the ''science wars'' are illusory and that the Bush administration's stewardship of science is both defensible and in keeping with the ideal of scientific progress. Despite the ugly names he has been called along the way, he remains sanguine about science's prospects under the Bush administration -- for the simple reason, he says, that he is careful to make a distinction between Science (which his tone alone capitalizes) and the people who conduct it. Whether scientists set up camp outside the White House, Marburger suggested to me recently, or whether they remain quietly in their laboratories, science will continue to lumber on as it always has. So, too, will Washington.
One afternoon in March, I met Marburger for lunch at the Bombay Club, an Indian restaurant not far from the White House. It was raining, and Marburger, a sensible man who walks to meetings and lunches, arrived in a long black overcoat, his white hair sprinkled with rain. He spoke in a quiet, professorial tone about the work of Hans Bethe, the Nobel Prize-winning nuclear physicist, who died the day before, and about nonlinear optics, a field made possible by the invention of the laser and in which Marburger was a pioneer. All this seemed at odds with the prevailing image of a man torn between the scientific community that had fostered him and the administration that had taken him in, and I asked what he thought about the notion, widely held in the scientific community, that he must be ethically conflicted. 
 ''I don't feel conflicted,'' he said calmly. ''I don't feel that I'm someone who is, as I've been described, at the 'eye of a hurricane' or at the 'center of a storm.''' That image, he said, comes from the fact that ''we're very closely tied to the dynamics of politics in our time, but we're not very closely tied to what is actually happening in science.''
 For Marburger, this is true even, or especially, when it comes to scientific developments that have generated the most controversy. Global warming, which many scientists see in Manichaean terms -- the evidence of increasing climate change versus the administration's unwillingness to take steps to combat the danger -- Marburger sees in terms of a larger back-and-forth between scientific advances and the willingness of the culture to alter itself accordingly. Each generation, Marburger told a group of environmental scientists at Princeton in the spring, has a natural resistance to changing its lifestyle, and our generation has a resistance to changing the way it produces energy -- ''one of the deepest and most pervasive aspects of the economy.'' He sees the stem-cell debate in similar terms: science can point us to the facts, but it cannot solve what for some are the moral issues raised by the use of human embryos in research. In late July, when as staunch a Bush ally as Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader and a physician, backed a bill that would loosen federal restrictions on stem-cell research, Marburger remained silent. Then in August, it was reported that Harvard researchers had used existing embryonic stem cells to convert adult skin cells into stem cells. The bill supported by Frist, which had been gaining momentum in the Senate, despite Bush's threat of a veto, suddenly seemed likely to lose votes. For Marburger, the fact that new research had direct political consequences was as it should be: the findings raised ethical issues that were separate from the scientific ones, which would be worked out in due course. 
 This does not mean that Marburger believes there can or should be a stark division between scientific and social issues. After serving for 14 years as president of the State University of New York at Stony Brook, he was tapped in 1998 to become director of Brookhaven National Laboratory, a vast and prestigious federal research complex on the east end of Long Island, whose future had become suddenly threatened by the discovery of a plume of radioactive tritium in the groundwater beneath the lab's nuclear reactor site. The leak was in fact harmless -- it contained less radioactive material than a conventional Exit sign -- but it sent local environmentalists into a frenzy. Marburger spent countless hours listening to the concerns of activists, and he worked assiduously to reform the laboratory's image -- presiding over the shutdown of the offending reactor at the insistence of the Department of Energy, against his better scientific judgment; opening up Brookhaven to public scrutiny; and more strictly enforcing environmental-safety regulations. After three years, Marburger had not only resolved the conflict; he had also earned national recognition -- and it was his performance at Brookhaven that would bring him to the attention of the Bush administration.
 As the presidential science adviser -- and director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy -- he would step into a less overtly controversial role than the one at Brookhaven. Though scientists since Benjamin Franklin have been acting as advisers to the government, the position was first codified by Dwight D. Eisenhower, who was motivated to bring a scientist closer to the Oval Office by the launching of Sputnik and the ensuing space race. It was an era in which admiration for science and scientists was at its peak, and the cultural mood was reflected in the White House. Early science advisers played an active role in minting policies as expansive as a nuclear test-ban treaty with the Soviet Union and as sensitive as U-2 surveillance of the Soviet Union. But this heyday was not to last long. As the influence of scientists grew, so, too, did the level of their political activism. During the 1960's and early 1970's, they began to dispute, often on nontechnical grounds, the Vietnam War and to fight for strict arms control. This led, writes Gregg Herken in ''Cardinal Choices,'' a history of presidential science advising, to ''a progressive loss of faith in the process by both sides.'' The tension came to a head in 1973, when President Nixon, angry over the opposition of his advisers to his antiballistic-missile program, summarily abolished the post of science adviser. Gerald Ford reinstated it in 1976 -- and also established the Office of Science and Technology Policy, which was charged with analyzing the impact of science and technology on domestic and international affairs. But the role would be only a shadow of its predecessor.
 In comparison to his midcentury precursors, Marburger is less active in formulating public policy, and unlike his colleague Leon Kass, chairman of the President's Council on Bioethics, he isn't asked to weigh its ethical or moral underpinnings. The Office of Science and Technology Policy, which is Marburger's base of operations, plays mostly an administrative role in the White House. With a staff of just over 40 and a budget of only $6 million, the office has none of the attributes that endow the agencies and departments it monitors with independence. And unlike the larger policy shops in the White House, like the National Security Council, it does not play an obvious role in the president's day-to-day decision making. To some extent, these shortcomings have historically been considered something of a benefit; the gist of an old saying among O.S.T.P. staff members is that because they have no people and no money, they can better represent the president's scientific efforts to the rest of the government. But the power of the office is widely agreed to depend on the science adviser's personal relationship with the president. ''Your influence depends on whether people around the president feel you have something to add,'' says Neal Lane, Clinton's second science adviser, now a professor at Rice University and a senior fellow at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy there. ''The title'' -- assistant to the president -- ''is important. It means you're understood to have access.'' 
 How much access Marburger has is a matter of considerable debate. The lack of the title, as Lane says, contributes to the conventional wisdom that he works in an orbit far outside Bush's inner circle. But, as Marburger points out, he does attend the senior-level staff meeting held early each morning in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, and he is able to see the president whenever he feels it is necessary. Robert Walker, who served as a science-and-technology adviser to the Bush 2000 campaign, told me, ''O.S.T.P. has been a major player in policy, and whoever makes the argument that it's been relegated to some backwater of the White House just reveals how little he knows about how this administration works.'' 
Marburger is fond of citing a line written by Daniel Sarewitz, director of the Consortium for Science, Policy and Outcomes at Arizona State, that ''it is not only axiomatic but also true that federal science policy is largely played out as federal science budget policy.'' The most important job he has, Marburger told me repeatedly, is helping to shape that policy: ''If the science adviser is disengaged from the Office of Management and Budget, then he might as well get on the lecture circuit.'' Fiscal policy also serves, Marburger says, as an implicit defense of the administration's commitment to science. Over the course of Bush's first term, he points out, overall research-and-development spending rose by 44 percent, which, as some have noted, is a greater increase than in any four-year term in the last 30 years. ''You really have to work at it to make a counterargument that science has not fared well in this administration,'' he told the journal Science last fall.
 Critics have a different and, they say, more nuanced, view of the science budget. Much of the increase, they point out, was either preordained -- a residue of the extraordinary expansion of the National Institutes of Health, which began under Clinton -- or comes under the umbrella of military spending. What's more, in a fiscal climate constrained by the war in Iraq and by spending on the war on terror, the most recent White House science budget -- released in February and currently being negotiated by Congress -- was nearly flat, with financing for several programs actually declining. ''All the basic science budgets are dropping,'' Rosina M. Bierbaum, dean of the School of Natural Resources and Environment at the University of Michigan and the interim director of O.S.T.P. before Marburger's arrival, told me. ''They are emptying the science pipeline. How can you be for science and do that?'' John Gibbons, Clinton's first science adviser, adds that money isn't the only issue. ''We're unhappy about where science is going,'' he says. ''The budget isn't the point. Are we going to abandon space exploration and just go to Mars? Are we going to maintain a global gag rule on birth control? Where is Marburger's voice in these decisions?''
 His voice, Marburger said, is on ''the health of science and the objectives that you try to achieve in a society through science.'' He typically defines these objectives in terms of large-scale projects and issues: the complications posed by the war on terrorism to the free international exchange of students in the sciences (Marburger has sought to ease restrictions placed on foreign-student visas); the identification and evaluation of new technologies to address federal security concerns; the health of the technical-publication industry, which is subject to peer review, in the age of the Internet, which typically is not; the siting and development of ''big science'' research equipment, like the Spallation Neutron Source in Oak Ridge, Tenn.; the rise of nanotechnology, with its potential to revolutionize everything from the treatment of cancer to the creation of new weaponry. ''We're talking about the United States of America,'' he said. ''A hundred and 30 billion dollars being spent on science and technology, just from government funds. We're talking about the warp speed of the economy, the warp speed of technology. To me, that is what's important. It's important to keep it going.''
 Marburger has taken pains to make his large-scale priorities, and his small-scale optimism, known. At a forum on science and technology at the Washington-based American Association for the Advancement of Science in April, he called for a new ''science of science policy,'' urging the scientific community to apply the tools of the social sciences to guide research and development. Why not establish econometric models that could discern the effects that, for instance, the growth of technological competence in China and India will have on the American workforce? Or that could provide better data on what the return on federal investment might be in specific scientific programs? He was confident, he declared, that science was fine in the short term. ''But,'' he stated, ''I worry constantly that our tools for making wise decisions, and bringing along the American people and their elected representatives, are not yet sharp enough to manage the complexity of our evolving relationship with the awakening globe.'' The speech was quintessential Marburger: he was imploring the scientific community to get more involved in the workings of the federal government, but he was imploring it to do so with the clinical tools of empirical research.
 As for the nitty-gritty of politics itself? I asked Marburger. He waved his hand. ''That's just shrapnel in the air.''
Jeff Ruch, executive director of Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility (PEER), had what he considers to be an amusing experience when he appeared recently before the Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs of the House Committee on Government Reform. Over the past two years, the committee, of which Representative Henry Waxman is the ranking Democratic member, has produced a steady stream of news releases and reports questioning the administration's scientific integrity (''Data Manipulation Behind Reported Drop in Terrorism,'' ''Federally-Funded Abstinence-Only Programs Teach False and Misleading Information,'' ''Bush Administration Dishonest About Stem-Cell Research''). Ruch had been invited to speak about the Data Quality Act, a 2001 law that gives outside parties the right to challenge what they consider to be false or misleading government information, but he took the opportunity to denounce what he called a ''severe disinformation syndrome'' affecting the executive branch. ''The level of official dissembling from federal environmental and resource agencies has never been worse,'' he said. ''The federal government today is thoroughly corrupt.'' ''They looked at me as if I had two heads,'' Ruch told me, speaking of his subcommittee appearance. ''They had no inkling I'd talk that way.''
 Ruch is the flip side of the nonideological, noncombative approach to science represented by Marburger (whom he refers to as ''the official apologist for the Bush administration''). His organization, which he has run for 12 years, is what he calls a ''battered-staff shelter.'' It provides legal support and guidance for government scientists and others who claim their work has been subjected to political interference, be it from Democrats or Republicans, or who say they have been punished for refusing to comply with political directives. Ruch referred me, for example, to the story of Andrew Eller, a federal biologist fired by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service after publicly exposing scientific flaws in the agency's recovery program for the endangered Florida panther. In a federal complaint filed jointly with PEER, Eller charged that he had been pressured by his superiors to play down the risks to the animal and to green-light development projects on land crucial to its habitat. Eller was reinstated after his case was settled out of court.
 PEER has also, for the past several months, been producing a series of surveys in conjunction with the Union of Concerned Scientists that has provided significant ammunition for the administration's critics. The most recent survey, of fisheries scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, concluded that nearly one-quarter of respondents had at some time been ''directed to inappropriately exclude or alter technical information from a . . . scientific document.'' More than half were aware of cases in which ''commercial interests have inappropriately induced the reversal or withdrawal of . . . scientific conclusions or decisions through political intervention.''
 Such interference, Ruch admits, is unavoidable in a system as vast as the federal government, in which scientific work swims in the same pool as political interests, but, he maintains, it has never occurred so frequently. During the Clinton administration, PEER's Washington office received three ''intakes'' -- complaints of interference with environmental work -- per day. That number, Ruch says, is now up to five, and the professional status of the complainants has risen markedly. ''The principal difference stems from the Bush administration's near-obsession with information control,'' Ruch says. ''Under Clinton, it was like the old Will Rogers joke, 'I'm a member of no organized party; I'm a Democrat.' Under Bush, control has been centralized to an extent that's almost unheard-of. And that control has migrated down the chain of command and manifested itself in the form of political interference.''
 It is this atmosphere of control, many scientists say, that has forced them into an overtly political position and that many fear may be having devastating effects on the federal scientific system. ''What has been happening has long-term consequences for the health and capabilities of government science,'' says Kurt Gottfried of the Union of Concerned Scientists, ''and we're beginning to see that scientists don't want to go into government. This is a virus that will take a long time to eradicate.'' Neal Lane, Clinton's science adviser, adds that morale has been plummeting in many federal agencies over the past five years. He points to several reasons that this might be the case, highlighting a directive issued by the Health and Human Services Department in 2004 that strictly limited the number of scientists the N.I.H. and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention were permitted to send to an international AIDS conference in Bangkok. An internal department e-mail message revealed that the decision, which Lane says was an egregious instance of top-down interference, was issued because of the heckling of Tommy Thompson, then secretary of Health and Human Services, at a previous conference. And in the E.P.A., Lane says, supervisors have been ignoring internal scientific staff members ''in a manner that is reprehensible'': ''If you want to destroy an agency, that's a really good way to do it.''
 Is the Bush administration truly a worse science offender than its predecessors? According to Daniel Sarewitz of the Consortium for Science, Policy and Outcomes, the degree of abuse is difficult to quantify, since the very notion of ''misuse'' of science is ideologically freighted. In 2003, for instance, the Hoover Institution, a conservative policy institute affiliated with Stanford University, published ''Politicizing Science,'' a book that outlined instances in which policy makers had manipulated science for their own political ends, nearly always in the name of increased regulation. ''The two sides simply bring to the table different ideas of what science is and how it should be used in regulating policy,'' Sarewitz observes. 
 For Marburger, such differences are less important than those that exist between the scientific community and society as a whole. ''Science needs patrons, and our patron is society,'' he told Science shortly after the 2004 election. ''But if we're not careful, the scientific community can become estranged from the rest of society and what it cares about.'' He was referring to the need for scientists to be sensitive to the religious and ethical concerns of many Americans, but much of the scientific community interpreted his remark as a warning that its criticisms might be affecting the administration's willingness to finance science. ''There's this preoccupation with whether science is respected by the federal government,'' Marburger told me recently. ''But I see no indication that that preoccupation has had any impact. Policy makers continue to like science and to fund it appropriately.'' Science is a monolith, Marburger said. It would take quite a lot of politics to topple it.
 This brand of scientific reason is not what his critics want from Marburger, but it is a quality that those who know him well consider immutable, and even quietly beneficial. ''Jack's not the type of guy to fall on his sword,'' says Norman Neureiter, director of the Center for Science, Technology and Security Policy at the American Association for the Advancement of Science. ''Would a different personality be any better? That's difficult to say. If he's a voice at the table for science, that's a contribution, but it will tend to be an unsung contribution.''
 Of this Marburger seems wryly aware. Last year, during a speech on the politicization of science at the George C. Marshall Institute, he offered a brief outline of the direction his professional life has taken, from bench physicist to presidential adviser. ''The curious thing about these roles,'' he told his audience, which had been led to expect an analysis of the battles then raging over the White House and science, ''is that at no time did I regard myself as being a political actor. Yes, that is naive, but it is true.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Roderick Mills)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (89%); POLITICS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); LOBBYING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%) Science and Technology; Medicine and Health; Stem Cells; Weather; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RICHARD DURBIN (57%) Daniel Smith; John H III (Dr) Marburger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



100 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Allan Bloom and the Conservative Mind

BYLINE: By Jim Sleeper. 
Jim Sleeper, a lecturer in political science at Yale, is the author of ''The Closest of Strangers: Liberalism and the Politics of Race in New York'' and ''Liberal Racism.''

 BODY:
CONSERVATIVES in 1987 may still have been basking in Ronald Reagan's ''morning in America,'' but nothing prepared their movement, or the academic and publishing worlds, for the wildfire success of Allan Bloom's ''Closing of the American Mind: How Higher Education Has Failed Democracy and Impoverished the Souls of Today's Students.'' Amid a furor recalling that over William F. Buckley Jr.'s ''God and Man at Yale'' in 1951, Bloom indicted liberal academics for betraying liberal education. His attack sold more than a million copies.
 Who on an American campus could ignore Bloom's accounts of Cornell faculty groveling before black-power student poseurs, or his sketches of politically correct administrator-mandarins and ditzy pomo professors? What dedicated teacher could dismiss his self-described ''meditation on the state of our souls, particularly those of the young, and their education''? Some thoughtful liberals found themselves reading ''The Closing'' under their bedcovers with flashlights, unable either to endorse or repudiate it but sensing that some reckoning was due. 
 Conservatives championed Bloom then, of course, and they invoke him still. Roger Kimball, the managing editor of the conservative New Criterion, writes in an article, ''Retaking the University: A Battle Plan'': ''Traditionally, a liberal arts education involved both character formation and learning . . . to produce men and women who (as Allan Bloom put it) had reflected thoughtfully on the question 'What is man?' '' Kimball charges that the ''adversary culture of the intellectuals'' has taken over universities, an accusation echoed across a growing web of conservative campus activists, including Daniel Pipes's Campus Watch, which tracks the utterances of leftist professors on the Middle East; the Collegiate Network, which trains combative conservative student journalists; the Intercollegiate Studies Institute of conservative campus organizations; and David Horowitz's Center for the Study of Popular Culture, whose ''Academic Bill of Rights'' -- which would subject professors to student grievances against political discrimination -- is now before several state legislatures.
 But everyone seems to have missed the elephant in the room: Bloom's ostensibly conservative meditation in fact anticipated and repudiated almost every political, religious and economic premise of Kimball's and Horowitz's movement. Conservatives who reread Bloom today are in for a big, perhaps instructive, surprise.
 Far from being a conservative ideologue, Bloom, a University of Chicago professor of political philosophy who died in 1992, was an eccentric interpreter of Enlightenment thought who led an Epicurean, quietly gay life. He had to be prodded to write his best-selling book by his friend Saul Bellow, whose novel ''Ravelstein'' is a wry tribute to Bloom. Far more than liberal speech codes and diversity regimens, the betes noires of the intellectual right, darkened Bloom's horizons: He also mistrusted modernity, capitalism and even democracy so deeply that he believed the university's culture must be adversarial (or at least subtly subversive) before America's market society, with its vulgar blandishments, religious enthusiasms and populist incursions.
 ''The semitheoretical attacks of right and left on the university and its knowledge, the increased demands made on it by society, the enormous expansion of higher education,'' Bloom wrote, ''have combined to obscure'' the universities' mission ''to maintain the permanent questions front and center'' and ''to provide a publicly respectable place . . . for scholars and students to be unhindered in their use of reason.'' 
 Some conservatives may insist they are saying exactly that. But Bloom warned that liberal education is threatened as well by ''proponents of the free market,'' whose promise of social well-being ''no longer compels belief,'' and by religious belief that, ''contrary to containing capitalism's propensities, as Tocqueville thought it should, is now intended to encourage them.''
 Bloom argued that our capitalist economy and liberal-democratic order turn civic virtue to mercenary ends. To cultivate ''the use of reason beyond the calculation of self-interest,'' he contended, ''it is necessary that there be an unpopular institution in our midst that . . . resists our powerful urges and temptations.'' That unpopular institution was the university. Surveying with nuanced regret what he saw as the failures of religion and of the Enlightenment (whose rationalism had collapsed into fascism or Communism), he hoped to rescue a classical Greek pedagogical tradition that wove eros and intellect into the love of knowing and the love of natural virtues. 
 Conservatives who reread Bloom will also discover that the 60's left reminded him of the right-wing hordes his mentor Leo Strauss had encountered in Europe in the 30's: ''The fact that in Germany the politics were of the right and in the United States of the left should not mislead us. In both places the universities gave way under the pressure of mass movements'' whose participants, full of animal spirits and spiritual animus, undertook ''the dismantling of the structure of rational inquiry.'' Yet Kimball and Horowitz themselves are trying to rouse a mass movement of alumni, the public and legislatures to ''take back'' the university. 
 ''Many parents are alarmed, rightly so, at the spectacle of their children'' coming back from college and jettisoning ''every moral, religious, social and political scruple that they had been brought up to believe,'' Kimball cries. But Bloom wanted reason to overturn familial and religious commitments, if necessary, to forge deeper attachments to truth and civic-republican virtue. Try to imagine Bloom's seconding Kimball's praise for ''the rise of conservative talk radio, the popularity of Fox News . . . and the spread of interest in the Internet with its many right-of-center populist Web logs'' as ''heartening signs'' that conservatives are becoming ''a widespread counter to the counterculture'' of universities. 
 Similarly, Horowitz's Academic Bill of Rights would force professors to teach scholarly work opposed to their own. Most already do that, but it's hard to imagine that Horowitz, or his conservative allies, want Milton Friedmanite free-marketeers to be required to tell their packed economics classes about Daniel Bell's claim, anticipating Bloom, that our economy had led to ''corporate oligopoly, and, in the pursuit of private wants, a hedonism that is destructive of social needs.''
 Bloom wanted liberal education to resist both ''whatever is most powerful'' and the ''worship of vulgar success.'' True openness, he said, ''means closedness to all the charms that make us comfortable with the present.'' He disdained professors who strive to become counselors to the king and forget that ''the intellectual, who attempts to influence . . . ends up in the power of the would-be influenced.'' And he lamented the emergence of new academic departments like mass communications and business management, which ''wandered in recently to perform some job that was demanded of the university.'' A few years ago, a great university's government department (not mine) nearly abolished its foreign-language requirement for Ph.D. candidates because ''rational choice'' whiz kids were touting a great new, universal language -- computer English. An eminent conservative scholar and one of his formidable leftist colleagues rolled their eyes empathetically and voted together against the initiative. 
 Horowitz and other conservative activists know very well that Bloom didn't reduce what he saw as liberal education's crisis to a contest of left versus right: ''I don't want the universities to be conservative,'' Horowitz himself protested recently to The Chronicle of Higher Education. ''I want them to be academic, scholarly.'' The magazine reported, however, that his small board of directors included John O'Neill of Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. That can't be kind of the truth Allan Bloom had in mind.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LITERATURE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); MEDITATION (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); BESTSELLERS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); EDUCATION LAW (72%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); DISCRIMINATION (64%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Jim Sleeper; Allan (1930-92) Bloom

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



101 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: The Days After; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: The View From Abroad

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
THEY were perhaps a bit slow, but the expressions of sympathy and offers of aid in the wake of Hurricane Katrina did materialize in Europe through the week.
 Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany declared, '''Our American friends should know that we are standing by them.'' The French prime minister, Dominique de Villepin, offered to send supplies, two airplanes, 35 members of civil security rescue teams, and other equipment and personnel.
 Still, Europe's response so far to the calamity of Katrina has been complicated, even ambivalent. There was plenty of sympathy and willingness to help, but there was also, as with Mr. de Villepin's offer, a rather formulaic quality and an absence of any powerful, spontaneous surge of empathy and affection for the afflicted nation. 
 Why?
 It is hard to measure this, but judging from the commentary and the blogs, the collective European response to the victims of the tsunami or the famine in Niger, to the killings in Darfur or the deaths of Shiite pilgrims in Baghdad seems to have been more immediate and deeply felt than for the victims of Katrina. And one reason for this relative coolness may be that these other disasters took place in poor, troubled nations, not in the most powerful and richest country on earth. 
 In fact, the spectacle of the hurricane causing a disaster of third-world proportions in the United States seems to have provoked a sort of dismay among Europeans, mingling with the sorrow. As a reporter on BBC Television argued on Friday, not able to keep the anger from his voice, the looting, the armed gangs, the gunplay and, especially, the arrogance, in his view, that the mostly white police displayed toward mostly black residents represented ''the dark underbelly of life in this country.'' There was something shameful, he said, about the way a natural disaster has produced behavior that, for example, the tsunami didn't produce in the third-world countries it hit. And it is painful to be a witness to somebody else's shame.
 ''Why should hundreds die, mostly African-Americans, in a predicted disaster in the richest nation on earth'' was one expression of a widespread feeling in Europe, this one appearing Friday in a letter in the British newspaper The Guardian.
 There were many comments to the effect that earlier predictions of the disaster did not lead public officials to make sure the levees would withstand any possible onslaught, and there was the unspoken opinion that such would not have been the case, say, with the dikes of the Netherlands, or in any of the rich European countries.
 ''These are incredible scenes from the richest and the biggest country in the world,'' Jean-Pierre Pernaud, the anchorman on one of the main midday French news programs, said on Friday. A program on the competing channel ran an interview with a specialist on the United States, Nicole Bacharan, who said, ''These images reveal to the world the reality in the Southern states: the poverty of 37 million Americans.''
 A few environmentalists in Europe seized on the situation to express one of their greatest irritations: the unwillingness of the Bush administration to sign the Kyoto Protocol on global warming. Jurgen Trittin, minister of the environment in Germany, was the most prominent among these, though others in Europe echoed this sentiment. 
 ''The American president has closed his eyes to the economic and human damage that natural catastrophes such as Katrina -- in other words, disasters caused by a lack of climate protection measures -- can visit on his country,'' Mr. Trittin said.
 But Mr. Trittin's comment, which made headlines in Germany, provoked as much outrage as approval. ''Instead of standing by the Americans as they try to come to grips with the hurricane catastrophe, our environment minister Trittin shows the world the face of the ugly German,'' the mass circulation Bild Zeitung wrote Friday. A British commentator, Gerard Baker, called comments like those of Mr. Trittin and a few others examples of ''intellectual looting.'' It was, he said, ''the predictable exploitation of tragedy for political purposes.''
 Still, Mr. Baker also went on to make the point that the real problem was the inherent inequality of suffering. ''The tragedy has been visited disproportionately, indeed almost exclusively, on the city's African-Americans,'' he wrote.
 There is no doubt most Europeans feel sorrow over the scenes of devastation they see on television, and many will no doubt contribute to funds set up to help the victims. At the same time, however, the particular circumstances of New Orleans and Biloxi, Miss., have tended to confirm the worst image of America that prevails in Europe, the vision of a country of staggering inequalities, indifference to the general welfare (especially during the Bush administration), and lacking in what Europeans call ''solidarity.''
 As that BBC reporter put it, there were no scenes of armed gangs of looters in gun battles with the police in Sri Lanka after the tsunami. 
 That things have gone so badly so quickly after the storm in New Orleans has produced, beyond sympathy, feelings in Europe of disappointment, distress and even fear that a major city in the world's superpower could have fallen into something that looks, from this side of the Atlantic, like anarchy.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jurgen Trittin, German critic of the U.S.
 Hard Times -- The plight of New Orleans's evacuees has aroused wonder and indignation in Europe. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); TSUNAMIS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Foreign Aid; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (72%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (71%) Richard Bernstein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (93%); NIGER (79%); IRAQ (79%); SUDAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%) Europe; New Orleans (La); Biloxi (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



102 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 6112 words

PERSON: William H. Rehnquist

HEADLINE: William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of Supreme Court, Is Dead at 80

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
William H. Rehnquist, who died Saturday at the age of 80 almost a year after learning he had thyroid cancer, helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 notably successful years as chief justice of the United States.
 Including 14 years as an associate justice, Chief Justice Rehnquist's tenure on the court was not only one of the longest in the institution's history but also one of the most consequential. With a steady hand, a focus and commitment that never wavered, and the muscular use of the power of judicial review, he managed to translate many of his long-held views into binding national precedent.
Chief among those was an enhanced role for the states within the federal system, which the court accomplished under his leadership by overturning dozens of federal laws that sought to project federal authority into what the Supreme Court majority viewed as the domain of the states.
 In the zero-sum game of the tri-partite separation of powers, the Supreme Court's own power grew correspondingly as the justices circumscribed the power of Congress. The court's institutional enhancement was an irony of Chief Justice Rehnquist's tenure, because another goal that he accomplished in large measure was to shrink the role of the federal courts by taking them out of the business of running prisons, school systems and other institutions of government. 
 The Rehnquist years included one historic episode of galvanizing drama and deep divisiveness, the decision in Bush v. Gore that decided the 2000 presidential election by ending the recount in Florida and handing a wafer-thin victory to George W. Bush. While Chief Justice Rehnquist voted with the 5 to 4 majority, his central role in the case was largely behind the scenes and the controlling opinion did not carry his name.
 While Chief Justice Rehnquist was a self-confident and not unduly modest man, that near-invisibility was itself quite characteristic and led many people to assume incorrectly that one of his flashier colleagues, Justice Antonin Scalia, had played the stage-manager's role in the events that resulted in the final decision in Bush v. Gore.
 ''Rehnquist is the opposite of Scalia,'' Professor Robert C. Post of the law school at the University of California at Berkeley said in an interview. ''Rehnquist doesn't particularly want to be noticed. He's not interested in getting credit. He's just interested in getting the job done.''
 Chief Justice Rehnquist also had the unusual experience of presiding over a presidential impeachment trial, a role ordained for the chief justice by the Constitution. During the five weeks in early 1999 that it took the Senate to try and acquit President Bill Clinton on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice, the chief justice was an unfamiliar presence in the Senate chamber, occasionally moving the proceedings along but having little of substance to do. ''I did nothing in particular and I did it very well,'' he told a television interviewer, Charlie Rose, two years later, borrowing a line from one of his favorite Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, ''Iolanthe.''
 ''Iolanthe'' also inspired Chief Justice Rehnquist to modify his basic black judicial robe by adding four gold stripes to each sleeve, copying the costume worn by the Lord Chancellor in a local production of the operetta. Since the chief justice had never paid any noticeable attention to his attire, the new adornment was startling. Where some saw self-aggrandizement, others saw the sartorial manifestation of a wry sense of humor.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist was an efficient administrator who had the affection and respect of even those colleagues who disagreed with him most vigorously. On Jan. 7, 2002, the 30th anniversary of his swearing-in as a justice, Justice John Paul Stevens, the senior associate justice and a liberal who was the furthest removed from the chief justice ideologically, read a statement from the bench congratulating him for reaching the milestone.
 ''On behalf of all your colleagues,'' Justice Stevens said, ''I want to express our sincere appriciation for the exemplary way in which you have performed the special responsibilities of your high office, with particular emphasis on the efficiency, good humor, and absolute impartiality that you have consistently displayed when presiding at our conferences.''
 Chief Justice Rehnquist was a lucky man, in that the turn of the political wheel sent new justices to the court and provided him with sufficient allies -- if barely so -- for his most cherished causes. His unusually long tenure also provided the gift of time.
 But his ultimate success was also a testament to his own tenacity and skill. He combined an unfaltering sense of mission with high intelligence, patience, the strategic prowess of a serious poker player, which he was, and the attention to detail of an art-lover and serious amateur painter, which he also was. He had held many of his views since early adulthood, and he took the long view: with seeming nonchalance, he would plant a phrase in an opinion in the expectation that it would take root, blossom, and prove even more useful in some future case. Time proved him right, not always, but often enough.
 William H. Rehnquist was 47 years old and far to the right of the judicial mainstream when President Richard M. Nixon named him to the Supreme Court as an associate justice in 1971. A Goldwater Republican, he was then an assistant attorney general in the Nixon Justice Department. He was a polarizing figure, the symbol of the president's determination to dismantle the liberal legacy of the Warren Court.
 Two and a half years into the chief justiceship of Warren E. Burger, that goal appeared far distant, given the continued service of such liberal titans as Justices William O. Douglas, William J. Brennan Jr., and Thurgood Marshall. In his first decade on the court, until he gained allies through the three appointments made by President Ronald Reagan, Justice Rehnquist was frequently a lone dissenter, his language pithy but his arguments seemingly futile.
 ''The existence of the death penalty in this country is virtually an illusion,'' he declared in one typical dissent in 1981, complaining that ''virtually nothing happens except endlessly drawn out legal proceedings.'' No other member of the court joined him. 
 But eventually not only a majority of the court but Congress as well -- due in part to Chief Justice Rehnquist's advocacy from his platform as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States, the judiciary's policy-making arm -- agreed that there were too many procedural obstacles blocking states from carrying out the death penalty. Through the interaction of legislation and Supreme Court decisions, the pace of executions quickened sharply through the 1990's.
 In general, there was little in those early years to indicate the success that lay ahead. Named by President Ronald Reagan in 1986 as the 16th chief justice of the United States, succeeding Warren Burger, he eventually presided over a working, if narrow, conservative majority that turned his one-time dissents into majority opinions and gave him the power to shape the law according to views he had held as a young lawyer and even as a student before that.
 When he took his seat as an associate justice on Jan. 7, 1972, the dominant theme in discussions about the Supreme Court was law and order. President Nixon was a harsh critic of the criminal procedure decisions of the Warren Court and correctly discerned that he would have an ally in Assistant Attorney General Rehnquist. During the Rehnquist years, the court enhanced the ability of the police to conduct searches and to have the results of the search introduced at trial; expanded police officers' immunity from suit for constitutional violations; and cut back sharply on the role of the federal courts in reviewing state-court criminal convictions.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist defied the expectations of many, however, in voting in June, 2000, to reaffirm one of the Warren Court's most famous and disputed rulings, Miranda v. Arizona, which required the police, as a protection against coerced confessions, to advise suspects of their right to counsel and to remain silent. 
 Chief Justice Rehnquist lost some battles, as well, on a court that remained closely divided on most fundamental issues. One of the only two dissenters, with Justice Byron R. White, from the 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized a constitutional right to abortion, he fell short by one vote in Planned Parenthood v. Casey in 1992 of seeing that decision overruled. 
 And in a 1989 case, Texas v. Johnson, that found flag-burning to be a form of political expression protected by the First Amendment, he was reduced to the role of impassioned dissenter. Quoting the famous lines, ''Shoot if you must, this old grey head, but spare your country's flag,'' from the Civil War poem, ''Barbara Frietchie,'' he said the flag was ''the visible symbol embodying our Nation'' and ''not simply another 'idea' or 'point of view' competing in the marketplace of ideas.''
 He remained a lightning rod whose influence was deplored by liberal academics and commentators. In a 2003 critique of the Rehnquist Court, ''Overruling Democracy'' (Routledge), Professor Jamin B. Raskin of the American University Law School wrote that Chief Justice Rehnquist's legacy was ''a thick jurisprudence hostile to popular democracy and protective of race privilege and corporate power.'' But his tenure had many admirers. Kenneth W. Starr, the former solicitor general, praised the Rehnquist years in his book on the court, ''First Among Equals'' (Warner Books, 2002) for returning to ''lawyerly rigor'' and rejecting the ''policy-making'' tendencies of the court under Chief Justices Earl Warren and Warren E. Burger.
 Through it all, through two testy confirmation hearings and decades as the highly visible embodiment of the court's counterrevolution, William Rehnquist remained a nearly imperturbable figure who strolled the court's grounds, unrecognized, in a jaunty straw boater and padded its halls in rubber-soled Hush Puppies, size 14D. 
 At six feet three inches, and often stooped due to back pain, he was rather ungainly. A flat Midwestern accent revealed his Wisconsin childhood, although he left the Midwest for military service in World War II at the age of 19 and never returned there to live. His adopted home state was Arizona.
 He loved amateur theatricals, led his law clerks in sing-alongs, and would bet with his fellow justices over anything, including the depth of snow on the marble plaza outside the court. He answered a contest in The Washington Post, which asked readers to figure out what make of car was referred to by the license place 1 DIV 0. ''I believe it refers to an Infiniti, since when you divide 0 into 1, the result is infinity,'' he wrote in his winning answer. 
 He wrote books on Supreme Court history as well as an unpublished murder mystery set in the Justice Department. Asked by Brian Lamb of C-Span, in a 1998 interview, why he liked to write books, he replied: ''It's very nice to be able to write something you don't have to get four other people to agree with before it can become authoritative.'' His books were ''The Supreme Court: How It Was, How It Is,'' published in 1987 by William Morrow and re-issued in an updated edition in 2001 by Alfred A. Knopf; ''Grand Inquests,'' a study of two historic impeachments, published by William Morrow in 1992; and ''All the Laws But One: Civil Liberties in Wartime'' (Knopf, 1998).
 One of the most notable aspects of Chief Justice Rehnquist's career was his consistency. Five years into his tenure on the Court, the Harvard Law Review published a ''preliminary'' appraisal by Professor David L. Shapiro. Professor Shapiro identified three basic elements of the Rehnquist judicial philosophy: conflicts between the individual and the government should be resolved against the individual; conflicts between state and federal authority should be resolved in favor of the states; and questions of the exercise of federal jurisdiction should be resolved against such exercise. The 1976 article was often cited in later years because it proved to be such a reliable roadmap to the Rehnquist judicial philosophy.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist, who had masters degrees in political science from both Stanford and Harvard Universities, defined himself in political science terms as a pluralist, one who believed there should be numerous sources of power within the government. ''I'm a strong believer in pluralism,'' he told an interviewer in 1985. ''Don't concentrate all the power in one place.''
 This outlook translated into a limited view of the role of the federal courts, because the courts were simply one institution among others, with no claim to greater wisdom or moral authority. This view was in sharp contrast to the judicial liberalism that was dominant when Chief Justice Rehnquist came of age as a young lawyer, when the federal courts were thought to have -- or behaved as if they had -- an almost oracular ability to discern the hidden meaning of the Constitution in light of the public good.
 His belief in a limited judicial role was further bolstered by a long-held skepticism about whether any theory of the common good was inherently preferable to any other. In a 1976 article, ''The Notion of a Living Constitution,'' published in the University of Texas Law Review, he wrote: ''There is no conceivable way in which I can logically demonstrate to you that the judgments of my conscience are superior to the judgments of your conscience, and vice versa. Many of us necessarily feel strongly and deeply about our own moral judgments, but they remain only personal moral judgments until in some way given the sanction of law.''
 Analyzing this passage in a 1994 article in the Rutgers Law Journal, Professor Thomas W. Merrill of Northwestern University Law School said Justice Rehnquist's point was that ''the only way to choose between moral judgments in a democratic socity is to take a vote, and adhere to the judgment endorsed by a majority.''
 Professor Merrill found a direct link between this approach and thoughts Mr. Rehnquist expressed in his Stanford master's thesis in 1948. In that work, which he called ''Contemporary Theories of Rights,'' the young graduate student wrote: ''The fact that the ultimate, and only reliable, source of value judgments is individuals themselves indicates that the highest moral purpose the state can fulfill is not to adopt or impose any arbitrary theory of morality, but to be itself amoral. To put this another away, the highest end which the state can serve is to serve no end at all, but merely exist as a means for the individuals within it to realize their own ends.''
 In later life, Chief Justice Rehnquist cheerfully agreed that he had adhered to the same views over the decades and appeared bemused by the response this sometimes evoked in others. To a questioner in 1994 who asked him whether his thinking on any major legal question had ''evolved'' over time, the Chief Justice cocked an eyebrow and said in a wry tone: ''Do you mean, have I shown a capacity for growth?''
 He was eventually able to transform long-held views into the law of the land. In 1952, after his graduation from Stanford University Law School, he took a coveted job as a law clerk to a Supreme Court justice, Robert H. Jackson. In one memo to the justice suggesting what the court should do with a pending criminal case, the young clerk argued that the court should abandon its rule that called for automatically reversing a conviction if a confession had been coerced. The evidence in the appeal before the court showed that the three defendants were ''guilty as sin,'' and the fact that their confessions may have been coerced should be disregarded as ''harmless error,'' he said.
 The court did not take the law clerk's advice, but in 1991 Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote the opinion for the court in a case called Arizona v. Fulminante, holding for the first time that coerced confessions could be admitted as ''harmless error'' if other evidence was sufficient to establish guilt.
 He wrote opinions in almost every area of the law. Among his most important opinions were those that set limits on the meaning of the Constitution's due process guarantee, declining to expand the boundaries of due process in a way that would create new rights or encroach on state power. These decisions marked an important shift by the Court away from a period of great expansion of the concept of constitutional due process.
 For example, his majority opinion in a 1976 case, Paul v. Davis, held that a man who had been falsely identified as a convicted shoplifter in a flyer circulated by the Louisville, Ky. police department could not sue the police chief for violating the 14th amendment's guarantee of due process of law. The man might well have a valid case for defamation in the Kentucky state courts, Justice Rehnquist wrote, but to permit him to sue under the Constitution in federal court ''would make of the 14th Amendment a font of tort law to be superimposed upon whatever systems may already be administered by the States.''
 In similar fashion, a 1989 majority opinion, DeShaney v. Winnebago County, rejected the argument that state-employed social workers deprived a young boy of his right to due process by leaving him in the care of an abusive father who then beat him into an irreversible coma. The purpose of the due process guarantee, Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote, ''was to protect the people from the State, not to ensure that the State protected them from each other.'' He added: ''The Framers were content to leave the extent of governmental obligation in the latter area to the democratic political processes.''
 A 1979 majority opinion, Bell v. Wolfish, held that it did not violate the Constitution for prison officials to place two prisoners in a cell designed for one. There is not ''some sort of one-man, one-cell principle lurking in the due process clause,'' Justice Rehnquist wrote.
 His majority opinions could be cryptic, sometimes only hinting at the legal reasoning, let alone the broader context or implications of the ruling. He was a fast and prolific writer, whose efforts to spur his colleagues to similar levels of speed and productivity were often disappointed.
 He staked his ground early in the debate over the boundary between state and federal authority. His majority opinion in a 1976 case, National League of Cities v. Usery, invalidated the application of federal minimum wage and hour requirements to employees of state and local governments. While a narrow majority overturned that decision, over Justice Rehnquist's dissent, nine years later in Garcia v. San Antonio Transit, the 1976 opinion had the important effect of reviving interest in the 10th Amendment. That amendment, previously one of the most obscure provisions of the Bill of Rights, reserves to the states or ''to the people'' any powers not explicitly given elsewhere in the Constitution to the federal government. 
 The 1976 decision put federal regulatory authority on the defensive as it had not been for a generation. Chief Justice Rehnquist's majority opinion in United States v. Lopez in 1995 raised the stakes in the debate over federal authority even higher. The decision declared unconstituional a Federal law, the Gun Free School Zones Act of 1990, that made it a federal crime to carry a gun within 1,000 feet of a school. 
 He said that because the possession of guns near schools ''has nothing to do with 'commerce' or any sort of economic enterprise, however broadly one might define those terms,'' Congress lacked authority to pass the law under its constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce. The decision marked the first time since the New Deal that the Court had invalidated an exercise by Congress of its commerce authority. The Lopez case was followed by a series of decisions expanding state immunity from federal regulation and constricting the authority of Congress. Nearly all were decided by 5-to-4 votes. Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, Antonin Scalia, and Clarence Thomas were his reliable allies in the Rehnquist Court's federalism revolution.
 As chief justice, he was outspoken in his impatience with Supreme Court precedents with which he disagreed. A 1991 majority opinion, Payne v. Tennessee, was essentially a manifesto for overruling precedents. In that case, the court overruled two earlier rulings that had barred prosecutors in death penalty cases from introducing evidence about the impact of the crime on the victim's family and community. 
 In his opinion, Chief Justice Rehnquist described general categories of precedents most suitable for overruling: constitutional cases, which unlike cases interpreting statutes cannot be corrected by Congress if they are in error; cases involving rules of evidence or procedural rights, in which people have no vested economic interest; and cases that have been decided ''by the narrowest of margins, over spirited dissents challenging the basic underpinnings of those decisions.''

Spirited in Dissent
 Many of his own dissents over the years could easily be described as spirited, although he toned down his rhetoric after he became chief justice. The fact that no one else agreed with him was no deterrent to publishing a strong dissent. In fact, when he was nominated to be chief justice, he was the court's most frequent lone dissenter, and some senators wondered aloud whether he could work effectively with his colleagues. Those concerns soon proved groundless.
 He was the only dissenter in a high-profile 1983 case, Bob Jones University v. United States, in which the court upheld the refusal of the Internal Revenue Service to grant tax-exempt status to a private university with racially discriminatory policies for student behavior -- a ban on interracial dating or marriage. In dissent, Justice Rehnquist argued that while ''I have no disagreement with the Court's finding that there is a strong national policy in this country opposed to racial discrimination,'' Congress had not given the I.R.S. authority to deny tax-exempt status on that basis.
 In a 1985 religion case, Wallace v. Jaffree, he dissented from the court's decision to strike down an Alabama law that provided a daily moment for silent prayer in the public schools. He said the court's modern precedents on religion were wrong, based on what he said was a misguided belief that the Constitution's framers meant to erect a ''wall of separation'' between church and state. All the framers had intended, he said, was to prohibit the establishment of a national religion and to forbid preferential treatment of one denomination over another, not to make the government neutral ''between religion and irreligion'' or to prevent government aid to religion on a nondiscriminatory basis.
 In Chief Justice Rehnquist's entire tenure on the court, there was no decision more disputed than Bush v. Gore, the 5-to-4 ruling that ended the 2000 presidential election as well as the bizarre 34-day post-election period of lawsuits and recounts.
 The initial question for the Supreme Court was whether to get involved at all in the dispute between the two candidates, Vice President Al Gore and Mr. Bush,then the governor of Texas, over the inconclusive outcome of the election in Florida, where it was clear that the state's 25 electoral votes would determine the outcome of the election despite Mr. Gore's majority in the nationwide popular vote. Mr. Bush held an evanescent lead in Florida, fewer than 2,000 votes on election night out of nearly 6 million cast and only 327 after an initial machine recount, a margin that Mr. Gore threatened to erase in a recount ordered by the Florida Supreme Court.
 As November became December with no official winner, it appeared that election night would never end. But the events that led to the final decision were extraordinarily compressed. On Dec. 9, the day after the Florida Supreme Court ordered a new recount, the chief justice and Justices Scalia, O'Connor, Kennedy, and Thomas voted to issue a stay, freezing the recount that had just begun. They also accepted the Bush appeal and scheduled argument for Dec. 11. Through the night after the argument and the long day that followed, the country waited for the result. At 10 p.m. on Dec. 12, the court issued its ruling. An unsigned opinion by the same five justices held that a lack of uniform standards for counting ballots from county to county meant that the recount would violate the constitutional guarantee of equal protection. There was no time to fix the problem, the majority held, so there could be no further counting.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote a concurring opinion, which Justices Scalia and Thomas also signed, arguing that the Florida Supreme Court had usurped the state legislature's authority, under the Constitution and a federal statute, to determine the rules for conducting elections.
 The decision was tremendously controversial. Its defenders maintained that whatever the analytical deficiences of the majority opinion, the court's intervention had the benefit of sparing the country further uncertainty that was on the verge of turning into a real crisis. The court's critics called the decision an activist and basically partisan act; it was unseemly, they said, for justices to be selecting the president who foreseeably would be in the position to choose their own successors. Whatever the merits of this debate, predictions that the Supreme Court would plummet in the public's esteem proved unfounded, and the country, if not the legal academy that produced a shelf of books on the episode, soon moved on.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist often said that he was strongly influenced in his world view by a book he read as a young man, ''The Road to Serfdom,'' by Friedrich von Hayek, the Austrian-born, Nobel Prize-winning economist. A best-seller after its publication in 1944, the book warned of the dangers of collectivism and big government and predicted that socialism, the ''road to serfdom'' of the title, would eventually collapse. 
 But his political opinions were by many accounts formed years earlier, in the secure, middle-class household where he grew up with a younger sister, Jean, in Shorewood, Wis., a suburb of Milwaukee. William Hubbs Rehnquist was born in Milwaukee on Oct. 1, 1924. His paternal grandparents had immigrated from Sweden to the Chicago area. His father, William Benjamin Rehnquist, worked in the paper business as a wholesale broker to the graphic arts industry. His mother, Margery Peck Rehnquist, was fluent in several languages and worked part-time as a translator for local companies.
 His parents were conservative Republicans. President Hoover was admired in the household. Franklin D. Roosevelt distinctly was not. Young Bill Rehnquist's classmates from those days later told interviewers that his political conservatism was distinctive. He did well in high school, graduating in 1942 with a scholarship to Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio. But he left after a few months to enlist in the Army Air Corps. He did not see combat during World War II. He spent time in North Africa as a weather observer and was discharged in 1946 with the rank of sergeant.
 He had been sufficiently impressed with the North African climate to decide that he did not want to return to the Midwest. He attended Stanford University on the G.I. Bill, graduating in 1948 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa with both a bachelors and masters degree in political science. He went to Harvard to continue his graduate studies, but complained to friends about ''Harvard liberalism.'' 
 On something of a whim, he took the law school aptitude test and did extremely well. Leaving Harvard with a second masters degree, he entered law school at Stanford on a scholarship and graduated first in his class in 1952 with his Supreme Court clerkship in hand. The No. 3 class ranking was held by a young woman from Arizona named Sandra Day, later to be his Supreme Court colleague, Sandra Day O'Connor.
 In his book ''The Supreme Court: How It Was, How It Is,'' the chief justice described driving to Washington, where he had been only once before, in his 1941 Studebaker to start his 18-month clerkship. The book is an account of some of the court's famous cases and aside from some anecdotal material is not a personal memoir. But it offers a vivid depiction of the combination of enthusiasm and awkwardness with which the young lawyer began the next phase of his life. He described his curiosity about what his working hours would be but his reluctance to ask even his fellow law clerk, who had already been there for some months, ''because it somehow seemed to indicate less than complete devotion to the job.''

The Brown Case
 Justice Jackson, who served on the court from 1941 until his death in 1954, had been a close adviser to President Roosevelt, serving as solicitor general and attorney general. During his Supreme Court tenure, he also served as the chief United States prosecutor at the Nuremberg war crimes trials in 1945 and 1946.
 The young law clerk admired his justice although there was much on which they disagreed. A memo that clerk Rehnquist wrote for Justice Jackson in 1952 on the school desegregation cases then before the Court, including Brown v. Board of Education, came back to haunt him at both his own Supreme Court confirmation hearings. 
 Entitled ''A Random Thought on the Segregation Cases,'' the memo argued that the attack on school segregation should be rejected and the separate-but-equal doctrine the Court had endorsed in the notorious Plessy v. Ferguson decision of 1896 ''was right and should be reaffirmed.'' 
 ''I realize that it is an unpopular and unhumanitarian position, for which I have been excoriated by my 'liberal' colleagues,'' Mr. Rehnquist wrote to Justice Jackson. He also wrote that ''in the long run it is the majority who will determine what the constitutional rights of the minority are.''
 The memo, which remained in Justice Jackson files, caused a furor when it surfaced during Mr. Rehnquist's 1971 confirmation hearing. Both then and during his 1986 hearing on his nomination to be Chief Justice, he said that the memo did not express his personal view, but had been drafted at Justice Jackson's request as a summary of the Justice's views.
 ''I fully support the legal reasoning and the rightness from the standpoint of fundamental fairness of the Brown decision,'' Mr. Rehnquist said at his 1971 hearing.
 In 1953, he married Natalie Cornell, a fellow Stanford graduate who was then working in Washington for the Central Intelligence Agency. They had a son, James, and two daughters, Janet and Nancy. It was a strong marriage and Mrs. Rehnquist, who was known as Nan, was very popular at the Court. She died in 1991 after a long battle with cancer. .
 Chief Justice Rehnquist is survived by three children: Janet Rehnquist of Arlington, James C. of Sharon, Mass., and Nancy Spears of Middlebury, Vt.; his sister, Jean Larin of Grand Rapids, Mich.; and nine grandchildren.
 After his clerkship ended, the Rehnquists chose Phoenix as a place to settle. He joined a law firm there and became active in Republican politics and in civic affairs. In a 1957 speech to a local bar association, he criticized liberal Justices on the Warren Court for ''making the Constitution say what they wanted it to say.'' He also spoke publicly against a proposed local law barring racial discrimination in public accommodations and against an integration plan for the Phoenix public schools. He campaigned in 1964 for the conservative Republican Presidential nominee, Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona. 
 He became friendly with Richard G. Kleindienst, a Phoenix lawyer who helped run Nixon's successful presidential campaign in 1968. When Mr. Kleindienst went to Washington as Deputy Attorney General, he recommended Mr. Rehnquist for a job. As assistant attorney general for the Office of Legal Counsel, Mr. Rehnquist was suddenly in a high-profile position, testifying often before Congress to give the Nixon Administration's views on obscenity, wiretapping, national security and other sensitive subjects. 
 He also was involved in the Administration's efforts to monitor and control the mounting protests against the war in Vietnam, in one speech denouncing student demonstrators as ''the new barbarians'' whose behavior ''constitutes a threat to the notion of a government of law which is every bit as serious as the crime wave in our cities.''
 He thrived in the Justice Department, entranced by the sense of immediacy and by wrestling with the great issues of the day. Years later, as Chief Justice, he described his three years there with evident nostalgia as the high point of his professional life.
 He had very little contact with the President himself. In one of the Watergate tapes, Mr. Nixon was recording as referring to ''that group of clowns'' at the Justice Department, ''Renchburg and that group.'' According to an account by John W. Dean, President Nixon's White House counsel, Mr. Nixon stopped by briefly at a meeting that Mr. Rehnquist was running and later summoned his counsel to ask: ''John, who the hell is that clown?''
 ''I beg your pardon?'' Mr. Dean replied.
 ''The guy dressed like a clown, who's running the meeting,'' the president said in an evident reference to Mr. Rehnquist's pink shirt and clashing psychedelic necktie.
 Nonetheless, President Nixon nominated him in October, 1971 to a Supreme Court vacancy caused by the retirement of Justice John M. Harlan. Mr. Dean, who had worked with Mr. Rehnquist and admired him, made the original suggestion for a choice that was far from obvious. In a nationally televised speech, the President called his nominee a ''lawyer's lawyer'' with ''one of the finest legal minds in this whole nation today.''
 The nomination of Mr. Rehnquist as well as the simultaneous nomination of Lewis F. Powell Jr., a former president of the American Bar Association, to succeed Justice Hugo L. Black was a last-minute affair. The American Bar Association indicated that it would not approve the original choices for the two vacancies and the Administration wanted to avoid a protracted struggle. 
 While Mr. Powell was easily confirmed, the confirmation process for Mr. Rehnquist was much more acrimonious. His hearing lasted five days. Liberal Senators as well as civil rights leaders denounced him as a right-wing extremist. The final vote was 68 to 26, and Mr. Rehnquist took his seat as the 100th Justice on Jan. 7, 1972.
 His confirmation hearing to become Chief Justice nearly 15 years later was something of a rerun. President Reagan named him on June 17, 1986, to succeed Warren E. Burger, who retired from the Court to head the national commission in charge of the bicentennial celebration of the Constitution. Questions at the Rehnquist confirmation hearing ranged over his political activities in Arizona, to the advice he gave the Nixon Administration, to a racially restrictive -- and legally unenforceable -- covenant on the deed to his Vermont vacation house. 
 The Judiciary Committee also reviewed his medical record, which included the use for nine years of increasing doses of a prescribed hypnotic drug, Placidyl, to help him sleep while suffering severe back pain. He had been hospitalized for 10 days in late 1981 to be weaned off the drug, which had caused side effects including slurred speech.
 Few minds were changed during the prolonged debate, and the Republican-controlled Senate confirmed him to be Chief Justice by a vote of 65 to 33 on Sept. 17, 1986. At the same time, Antonin Scalia was confirmed by a vote of 98 to 0 to the seat he was vacating as an Associate Justice. The two men were sworn in on Sept. 26.
 While the new Chief Justice found the confirmation process extremely disagreeable, he kept his composure and even his wry sense of humor. At one point, a Republican Senator, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, commended him for his recent dissent in Wallace v. Jaffree, the case on silent prayer in the Alabama public schools. Senator Hatch observed that the Senate Judiciary Committee had voted for a constitutional amendment to allow such prayer. ''What you have been labeled extreme for, is something a majority of this committee supports,'' Senator Hatch said.
 Justice Rehnquist smiled and shrugged. ''We're all extremists together,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Photos: Swearing In -- Justice Rehnquist, ill with cancer, administered the oath to President Bush on Jan. 20, 2005, at Mr. Bush's second inauguration. (Photo by Wally Hinds/Associated Press)(pg. 39)
CLINTON Impeachment -- Senator Strom Thurmond, left, swears in Chief Justice Rehnquist to preside in 1999. (Photo by Polaris)
THE NOMINEE -- In October 1971. (Photo by Associated Press)
THE BURGER COURT, 1976 -- Back row, from left: William H. Rehnquist, Harry A. Blackmun, Lewis F. Powell Jr. and John Paul Stevens. Front row: Byron R. White, William J. Brennan Jr., Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, Potter Stewart and Thurgood Marshall. Justice Rehnquist would succeed Chief Justice Burger in 1986. (Photo by Associated Press)
 THE REHNQUIST COURT, 2005 -- Back row, from left: Ruth Bader Ginsburg, David H. Souter, Clarence Thomas and Stephen G. Breyer. Front row: Antonin Scalia, John Paul Stevens, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony M. Kennedy. Justice O'Connor announced her retirement this summer. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HISTORY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); CANCER (73%); THYROID CANCER (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); BILL CLINTON (74%); STEPHEN BREYER (73%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (73%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); AL GORE (57%) Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005



103 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Design; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Next Up, Crossover Convertible Coupes

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
MY country cousins used to keep pets of every description, from beetles to burros, on their farm in North Carolina. Their mother tolerated all of these creatures -- except for an opossum. 
 ''But it's a marsupial,'' the youngsters insisted, implying that the creature held some educational value, always a winning argument with adults.
''I don't care,'' came the answer. ''It just looks like a big rat to me.'' 
 Despite its rodentlike appearance, the familiar opossum, Didelphis virginiana, is actually North America's best-loved marsupial (O.K., so it's a class of one) and is easily classified in a neatly nesting taxonomy of living things -- by phylum, class, order, family, genus and species.
 No such scientific regimen has been formalized by the auto industry, perhaps because classifications were, for many years, so straightforward: coupes, sedans, convertibles and station wagons in various sizes, all readily identified and sorted, and easily distinguished from trucks.
 It is no longer so easy to classify new models the way socks can be sorted by color or coins by denomination. Often-contradictory characteristics make it hard, if not impossible, to categorize some vehicles. Traits like the vehicle's shape, chassis design, drive system, roof structure and the way that doors open, hinged like a car or sliding on tracks like a van, are being combined in many ways. 
 Even the simplest division -- is it a car or a truck? -- can be tricky to pin down. Appearances alone are not a reliable indicator; some small wagons, like the Subaru Outback, fall into the truck class. Because trucks fall under less stringent economy and safety standards, the designers deliberately set out to meet parameters, like ride height and interior layouts, that the government has set for trucks.
 Body styles have often been used as part of the name of a model, like the Civic Hatchback. But hatchback, an honest description of the car's practical function, is a name no longer spoken in polite company. 
 No automaker wants to admit its products are mere transportation. Coupes are elevated to sport coupes and sedans become sport sedans -- the marketing department's way of saying the car is not as dull as it sounds. New subtypes emerge regularly. What may once been called an S.U.V. -- before that label acquired a certain stigma -- may now be a ''multiactivity vehicle.'' The Chevrolet SSR has the visual cues of a pickup but also a retracting hardtop, making a case for inclusion among the ranks of convertibles.
 Sedans redesigned with graceful rooflines assume a new identity as four-door coupes, something of an oxymoron as the term coupe has largely been associated with two-door body styles. The name flies in the face of reality, but has been used by Saturn in the past and will probably become more popular when Porsche adds a new car, the Panamera, with a similar theme. 
 The most slippery term is ''crossover,'' once used to describe vehicles driven by combination of gas and electric power -- we call these hybrids now. Today, crossover can mean a vehicle that is part car, part truck; sometimes it is simply used for a modified S.U.V. or minivan.
 For teachers of auto design there is another system. Stewart Reed, chairman of the transportation design department at Art Center College in Pasadena, Calif., said, ''We speak of one-box, two-box and three-box vehicles.'' At the most basic level, there are single-box vans, or ''monospaces''; two boxers -- hatchbacks with a distinct engine area; and three boxers, sometimes called ''notchbacks,'' with a distinct trunk. 
 But establishing car categories in the popular usage depends not just on basic layouts but on style and personality. 
 When DaimlerChrysler introduced the PT Cruiser as a 2001 model, it defied categorization, usually a poor marketing strategy. But it so thoroughly charmed buyers with its cartoonlike retro appeal that no one felt obligated to define it. Later, the company offered up the Pacifica, a more conservative vanlike shape with hinged doors -- not the typical sliding doors of a minivan -- as a new category of vehicle. After Pacifica sales got off to a slow start, it was pitched as a ''safer utility vehicle.''
 Timothy Malefyt, an anthropologist who is director of cultural discoveries at BBDO, the advertising agency for Mitsubishi, has studied people's impressions of vehicles. ''People tie their identity to what they drive,'' Dr. Malefyt said. Many of the first buyers of the Pacifica, Dr. Malefyt said, bought it hoping for distinction because it had not acquired a label. Marketers like to think of such products as potential ''segment busters,'' which create a new class. 
 The 2006 Mercedes-Benz R-Class, promoted as a ''grand sports tourer,'' is built to a similar formula, but has a life to its lines the Pacifica never did, with an angular engine compartment that suggests power. Its body has an energetic arch, and it wears a little overhang above the rear window like a teenager's backward baseball cap. My informal parking lot research suggests that it will be seen as something of a station wagon version of the Mercedes CLS, a coupelike sedan. 
 Mentally, drivers seem to possess default types to which they assign new vehicles, instinctively pigeonholing them as, say, wagons or trucks. Ford's slow-selling Freestyle, advertised as ''part car, part S.U.V.,'' was billed as a crossover, but it plays oddly on the eye. From some angles, it looks like a flattened S.U.V., and from others like a high wagon. 
 Car types rise and fall in fashion. 
 ''When any category matures, it's ready to be redefined or challenged,'' said Mr. Reed of Art Center College. 
 ''A lot of designers are talking now about what the next category is,'' he said. '' There is no clear agreement.'' 
 The minivan is the last category to be added to the mix. The next may be the ''cube car.'' The age-old two-box design has been reborn in the ''kiddie cubes'' of the Scion xB, Honda Element and many Japanese models. ''Some call it the space pod or travel pod,'' said Mr. Reed. ''It's like the microbus but for a younger generation it's a new fresh thing, a little box that can be personalized and customized. These urban cubes are a mature category in Asia.''
 The most successful new type in Europe in recent years is the ''monospace,'' a single-box tall sedan that looks, to American eyes, like a short minivan. Mazda recently introduced this form in its Mazda 5 multiactivity vehicle. (Mazda's earlier minivan was the MPV, for multipurpose vehicle.) 
 Another new, and as yet undefined, type is coming from BMW.
 Helmut Panke, the company's chairman, told the German press that the company was exploring ''space concept'' vehicles. BMW has never admitted that its X3 and X5 are anything so mundane as sport utility vehicles, and it will not call its new vehicle a ''people mover,'' which is another term one hears more often these days. It will not say ''touring,'' either, which is BMW's usual label for a station wagon. 
 The most basic type of vehicle around the world is the two-door hatchback. But in the United States that format and the term ''hatch'' are now almost unheard. ''Minivan'' is joining station wagon as a nearly taboo term in automotive marketing. 
 Sport wagon is the latest attempt to rehabilitate the station wagon designation. Europeans also use ''variant'' and the oh-so-English ''shooting brake'' on wagons. 
 General Motors avoided using hatchback to describe its five-door variation on the Chevrolet Malibu, instead calling the Malibu Maxx an ''extended sedan.''
 Dr. Malefyt of BBDO said that ultimately, what works is not marketing on the basis of more seats or more storage. ''Car labels form from the expanded and ever-fluid social context in which they are driven,'' he said. ''Minivans were cool until moms began to use them for multitasking, and carting their kids everywhere.''
 Ultimately drivers and passengers decide what genus and species their vehicles belong to. Whatever the official nomenclature, the traditional categories remain strong. A marketer's marsupial is often perceived as a consumer's big fuzzy rodent.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The shapes are similar, but the Mercedes R-Class uses hinged rear doors like an S.U.V. The Mazda 5 has minivanlike sliding doors.
 Mercedes calls its four-door CLS500 a coupe, a description more typical of two-door models.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); SEDANS (89%); CHILDREN (77%); BIOLOGY (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PETS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (68%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Trucks and Trucking; Vans

PERSON: Phil Patton

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



104 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 433 words

 BODY:

EUROPE HAS ISSUES, TOO -- The European community will open its annual summit with China in Beijing today and with India in New Delhi on Wednesday to consider economic issues with the two Asian giants. The indefatigable British prime minister, Tony Blair, is expected to attend both. Elsewhere, Russian President Vladimir V. Putin plans to meet with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder in Berlin on Thursday. On other fronts, the European Union is expected to propose a new tariff on bananas tomorrow, and the International Monetary Fund will take up the question of Zimbabwe's arrears on Friday. The economically crippled African nation somehow came up with a $120 million payment last week, and though it still owes $174 million, the payment may have been enough to ward off expulsion from the I.M.F. for now.

HARD TO GAUGE -- The various indicators of economic activity that will be announced this week will be stripped of much of their meaning by the events on the Gulf Coast. What are economic gurus to make of the ABC/Washington Post Consumer Confidence Index that will be released tomorrow, for example? Ordinarily, a big ''plus'' number might suggest optimism about the way the economy is headed, but with worries proliferating about gasoline prices, disruptions in air travel and weaknesses in the nation's supply and delivery system, the popular mood has suddenly grown more somber. Oh, by the way, the Energy Department publishes its report on crude oil and gasoline inventories on Thursday.

IT PROBABLY CAN'T LAST -- The government's jobless-claims figures come out Thursday but they, too, will give only a murky view of what is happening in the labor market. Last Friday's report that the American economy added 169,000 jobs in August and that the unemployment rate was at a four-year low of 4.9 percent obviously didn't take into account the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people from the stricken Gulf region. Some analysts are talking about really bad job numbers next month and even are bandying about the R word, for recession.

PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT -- The Liberal Democratic Party of the Japanese prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, above, appears to be coasting to big gains in Sunday's election, leading him to declare on the campaign trail that he senses ''growing support'' for his initiative to privatize the nation's postal system. Mr. Koizumi called the election last month, after the upper house of the the Japanese Parliament rejected his privatization plan. Japan Post not only handles mail, but also acts as a savings bank, the world's largest with $3 trillion in assets.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RECESSION (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GASOLINE (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); POSTAL SERVICE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); TONY BLAIR (57%); GERHARD SCHRODER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) EUROPE (95%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



105 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Hurricane Forces New Orleans Newspaper To Face a Daunting Set of Obstacles
After the hurricane, The Times-Picayune of New Orleans had to report the biggest story in its history with no electricity, no phone access and no home. With its readers scattered across the South, the paper turned its affiliated Web site, www.nola.com, into a release valve for the accumulating tales of misery from the city, providing news, crucial information and a missing persons forum that now contains more than 17,000 posts. [C1.]

As people search the Internet for information about a home feared damaged or destroyed, many are using Google Earth, a program available at the Google Web site that lets users zoom in on any address for an aerial view drawn from a database of satellite photos. [C1.]

Online businesses are struggling to gauge the impact of the possible loss of half a million prospective customers for weeks or months because of the hurricane. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C4.]

A 23-year-old with no formal meteorological training has drawn widespread praise for his hurricane blog, which urged New Orleans residents to leave the city two days before the mayor issued an evacuation order. [C7.]

Two news photographs ricocheted through the Internet last week and set off a debate about race and the news media in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. [C6.]

CNN and National Public Radio both found their voice amid the chaos of the hurricane. David Carr. [C1.]

Experts are trying to determine whether Katrina will put an end to the nation's housing boom. [C1.]

Vodafone Meets With Setbacks in Japan
Service problems, a botched rollout of its third-generation phone network and a skimpy lineup of new handsets have driven away Vodafone's Japanese customers in droves. The exodus has turned into an embarrassing and costly setback for Vodafone -- and one it is now struggling to overcome. Vodafone, which is based in London and also owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless in the United States, now must win back customers if it is to revive what was once one of its most profitable units and a cash cow for its global operations. [C4.]

WB Network Moves to Attract an Older Audience
With a roster of new television programs beginning on Sept. 13, the WB Network will be sending an emphatic but unspoken message to viewers: this is not your teenage daughter's WB. [C1.]

With Textbooks, Students Show How Smart They Are
When it comes to buying and reselling textbooks, students show an impressive amount of consumer sophistication, according to a new study by two economists. David Leonhardt: All Consuming. [C3.]

Murdoch's Company Said to Seek Buyout of Partner
The News Corporation is in talks to buy out the minority partner in its growing outdoor advertising business in Central and Eastern Europe for an undisclosed sum, a person involved in the venture said. [C2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); HURRICANE KATRINA (79%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (74%); MISSING PERSONS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); TEXTBOOKS (63%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); NEWS CORP (60%); GOOGLE INC (57%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



106 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; HURRICANE KATRINA: THE HOUSING MARKET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Housing Boom May Continue After Storm, Experts Say

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH; Ian Austen contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Hurricane Katrina destroyed hundreds of thousands of homes, threw at least a million people out of work, disrupted supply lines for businesses and brought misery to untold numbers. Will it also put an end to the housing boom? 
 There are good reasons to think so: the storm has led to rising oil prices and shortages of building materials, and is likely to shake consumer confidence. But most experts think the housing market's five-year run still has a way to go before it peters out.
In a weird twist of fate, the storm could even extend the housing boom, which in recent weeks had seemed to be running out of steam. That is certainly true in places like Houston, Atlanta and Baton Rouge, La., which are experiencing a surge in rental and homebuying activity as a result of the storm and the exodus that followed. 
 As refugees from New Orleans poured into Baton Rouge last week, along with workers who expect to help with the rebuilding effort along the Gulf Coast, the local housing market, which up until now has plodded along at a stable pace, suddenly experienced the kind of frenzy that has been associated with New York, Miami or Silicon Valley in the last few years.
 ''I've never seen anything like this before,'' said Robert Cook, a real estate agent with Re/Max Elite in Denham Springs, La., a suburb of Baton Rouge. ''It's sort of scary.''
 Mr. Cook said he represented five buyers in two days last week who made offers on homes, and fielded hundreds of calls and e-mail messages from others. On Friday, he said, he was with a couple from Picayune, La., who made offers on several houses only to discover they had already been sold. 
 In addition to refugees and workers, he said, ''investors are coming in from out of state by the droves and trying to buy stuff.''
 Housing markets well outside the immediate path of the refugees may also experience effects from the hurricane. Last week, mortgage rates, which had been creeping up in recent weeks, fell by about a quarter of a percentage point. Some economists said the rates had responded to indications that the Federal Reserve may now raise interest rates less aggressively because of concerns that rising oil prices will weaken the broader economy.
 Ellen Bitton, who owns Park Avenue Mortgage Group, a mortgage lender and broker in New York and Palm Beach, Fla., said she expected buyers to rush this week to take advantage of the lower rates. 
 ''Whether or not this is going to be a blip in the market, nobody knows,'' she said. ''It's almost an unexpected window of opportunity for people who want to lock into a better rate.''
 But some economists said the lowered mortgage rates were unlikely to offset other factors that pointed to a cooling housing market before Katrina hit. 
 ''I don't want to get too carried away by a 25-basis point move,'' said David Rosenberg, chief North American economist at Merrill Lynch, referring to the drop in rates (a basis point is one-hundredth of a percent). With inventories of available houses and condos rising in the markets ''where a lot of the effervescence was concentrated,'' he said, as well as declining mortgage applications, ''that is telling me that the housing boom is basically over.'' 
 Rising oil prices could put a crimp in the housing market if they prompt companies to slow hiring, or, perhaps more crucially, set off a psychological resistance to homebuying.
 On a practical level, higher prices at the pump may give some buyers pause about driving long distances to look at houses. Doug Fenichel, spokesman for K. Hovnanian Homes, a home builder in Edison, N.J., said the company was concerned about ''how willing is someone to jump into a car to take a drive for a couple of hours just to go look at a house.'' 
 The company, which has several new developments in central New Jersey, has been drawing buyers from all over the state. Now it is considering offering incentives to people who will ''take a ride from northern New Jersey to central New Jersey to see a home.''
 The hurricane is also likely to drive up the cost of new construction. Last week, home builders were closely watching prices and supplies of building materials like cement, plywood and roof tiles. The ports in New Orleans and Mobile, Ala., which were closed last week, brought in about 12 percent of all cement imports, said Michael Carliner, an economist at the National Association of Home Builders.
 Plywood prices spiked by about 20 percent last week, a result of disrupted production in the hurricane-ravaged region, said Jon P. Anderson, publisher of the industry newsletter Random Lengths. 
 Builders were also wondering whether the cost of asphalt roof tiles, as well as other petroleum-based materials like plastic piping and asphalt for driveways, would rise because of increases in the price of oil. 
 Some contractors and builders were stockpiling. ''We're already getting calls from users in the United States who are afraid that supplies will get sucked into the hurricane zone, leaving them in a vacuum,'' said Murray Abramovitch, the vice president of marketing for Emco Building Products, a roofing materials maker in Montreal. ''People are starting to say: 'We'd better protect ourselves and secure supply.'''
 The immediate priority is evacuating the people still stranded in New Orleans, but at some point the attention will turn to reconstruction. When that happens, home builders in other parts of the country say they may face material and labor shortages. 
 The scale of the rebuilding is likely to be larger than that of any other disaster in the United States because the losses are so much greater. After Hurricane Andrew hit Florida in 1992, about 28,000 housing units were destroyed, Mr. Carliner said. According to estimates from the American Red Cross, about the same number were ruined by the four hurricanes that struck Florida last year. In New Orleans, as many as 100,000 homes could be damaged beyond repair.
 As a result, ''you're going to see a lot of building materials and an inordinate amount of labor go there,'' said Joel Lazar, corporate vice president of sales and marketing for Transeastern Homes, a Florida home builder. With construction labor already scarce, Mr. Lazar said, the rebuilding effort in the Gulf region will ''take a challenging situation that already exists in Florida and make it more challenging.''
 If history is any guide, prices for construction materials will jump when reconstruction begins in the Gulf. The price of plywood increased by about 45 percent after Hurricane Andrew, said Mr. Carliner. 
 Some developers might have to postpone projects as the rebuilding picks up steam. ''It will slow down some projects in early 2006 because of competition in the Gulf region for rebuilding,'' said Hessam Nadji, managing director of research services at Marcus and Millichap, a real estate investment brokerage company based in Encino, Calif. 
 While the comeback of New Orleans could come at the expense of building in other regions, it will also provide a tremendous amount of work to architects, builders, contractors and construction workers for years to come. 
 Although he was horrified by the wreckage in his home state and its neighbor, Bobby Rayburn, owner of a home builder in Jackson, Miss., also saw another side. The rebuilding effort ''will be a big stimulus,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hurricane Katrina destroyed thousands of homes in the Gulf region. (Photo by Bruce Ackerman/Star-Banner)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (93%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); MORTGAGE RATES (85%); MORTGAGE LOANS (85%); TROPICAL STORMS (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); REFUGEES (74%); WEATHER (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (60%) Housing; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Labor; Housing

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Orleans (La); Baton Rouge (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



107 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ALL CONSUMING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Economics 101: When to Resell a Textbook

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
IT is easy to hate textbook publishers in September.
 As college campuses reopen, professors order their students to spend $100 on ''Introduction to Psychology'' or $120 on ''Plant Virology.'' They cannot switch to another brand, as they can when their cellphone plan or favorite blue jeans brand becomes more expensive, or they will find themselves on the wrong Page 86 during a lecture.
 Worst of all, the book might be worthless at the end of the semester. Whenever publishers come out with a new edition, they erase the resale value of all the used versions of the book. 
 It seems like the publishers have all the power and the students have no means for fighting back. But that isn't how it ends up, thanks to some impressive consumer sophistication on the part of the students, according to a new study by two economists.
 Professors have long known -- often to their dismay -- that students are price-conscious textbook shoppers. They are less likely to buy a $150 book than a $75 book, even when both are assigned to them. 
 But their discriminating shopping habits do not stop there, the research found. The students skip buying a book that was published a few years ago far more often than they skip buying a new edition, and there seems to be only one explanation for the difference. 
 The students understand that the book with an older publication date is effectively more expensive than a more recent one, because the older one is more likely to get revised soon and lose its resale value. When an $80 textbook can be resold for $40, on the other hand, it effectively costs $40. 
 Biology books tend to be reissued every four years, while economics books are usually revised on a three-year cycle, and students seem to be quite good at predicting the schedule. In the semester before economics textbooks are revised, sales plummet, typically by 50 percent, according to the researchers, Judith Chevalier, a Yale economist, and Austan Goolsbee, a University of Chicago economist.
 During the early part of a book's life, sales drop steadily, about 15 percent each semester, as the pool of used books on the market grows. But once it gets old enough to be in danger of revision, many more students suddenly say no thanks.
 ''As a college teacher myself, I would like to believe they are going to a library or borrowing it from a friend,'' Mr. Goolsbee said. ''But I think a lot of them are actually blowing it off.''
 That is not as depressing as it sounds. For one thing, some of the students certainly do figure out other ways to do the reading. (And any college that does not keep a hefty load of current textbooks in its libraries is in fact making the fight an unfair one.) Other students realize they can learn the material from the lectures and class discussions without the book.
 But even those students who are blowing it off play an important role. They help act as a check on McGraw-Hill, Pierson, Thomson and other textbook makers. Raise your price too high or revise your book too often, the students say with their wallets, and you will reduce your revenues.
 It may seem hard to believe that large numbers of students look up the publication date of a book after picking it up in the aisle of a college bookstore -- or listen to a friend who has. But it makes sense. One year's worth of textbooks cost about $900, according to several studies, making them a major part of a student's budget.
 When Patrick Bajari, then an economics professor at Duke, discussed Ms. Chevalier's and Mr. Goolsbee's research in class a few months ago, the students did not find it surprising. They told him that they often looked for less expensive versions of the book on the Internet, tried to gauge the strength of a book's resale market and -- yes -- did notice the age of the edition.
 ''My impression,'' said Mr. Bajari, now a professor at the University of Michigan, ''was that my undergrads at Duke were definitely putting a good deal of thought and effort into gaming the textbook market.'' 
 This is a useful reminder of the human mind's capability for shrewd rationality, at a time when many economists are focused on all the ways that people behave irrationally. We don't save enough money. We are fooled into buying cheap laser printers that require hundreds of dollars' worth of toner cartridges and paper. We pay $100 a month to a gym we use once every few weeks. 
 The study of these foibles has become known as behavioral economics, and it has rightly revolutionized the field. We are often not the returns-maximizing machines that classical economics imagined us to be. But we're no dummies either, at least much of the time. 
 The data collected by Ms. Chevalier and Ms. Goolsbee -- covering sales at more than 1,000 colleges over five years -- suggested that, if anything, students pay more attention to the age of an edition than they should. They almost seem more sensitive to a book's potential for resale than to its purchase price. 
 But there could be a rational explanation for that, too. Parents sometimes pick up the bill for the new textbooks that a student buys at the start of a semester. The cash that comes from reselling the book often has a way of not making it back to mom and dad.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lonni Sue Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); VIROLOGY (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); CLOTHING LABELS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); SALES FIGURES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



108 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Not Even Web Retailers Will Be Exempt From the Aftereffects of Katrina 

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
AS the Gulf Coast reels from Katrina's devastation, online businesses are struggling to gauge the impact of the possible loss of half a million prospective customers for weeks or months.
 ''This is a tough one, because it is a big market,'' said Patti Freeman Evans, an analyst with Jupiter Research, an Internet consulting firm. ''You can't get goods in there, and people aren't in their homes anyway, so there's not much companies can do.''
According to comScore Networks, an Internet research and consulting firm, 860,000 people, on average, surfed the Web from their homes or offices in New Orleans and the Mississippi towns of Biloxi and Gulfport each day in the week preceding the storm. 
 People who fled the Gulf Coast will no doubt find Internet access in their temporary homes, but few are likely to look on the Web for the necessities of life. 
 Online travel agencies like Expedia, Travelocity and Orbitz are no doubt feeling the pinch more than most online retailers. Not only must they cope with a deluge of calls from customers who had booked trips to the Gulf Coast and now want their money back, they must also face up to the possibility of a slump in sales as some vacationers and business executives deterred from flying to New Orleans drop their travel plans altogether. 
 ''It's the 19th-most-popular destination for Labor Day,'' said Joel Frey, a Travelocity spokesman. ''And there really isn't anything comparable to the city to offer as an alternative.''
 With Mardi Gras just six months away and recovery estimates for the city still cloudy, agencies cannot even be sure that one of the prime travel events of February will occur. Even if the city is in a position to stage Mardi Gras events, travel companies cannot say how many travelers New Orleans will be able to accommodate.
 None of the top online travel agencies would discuss the economic impact of the storm in detail. ''Our main concern is just dealing with the group of travelers who've made plans to travel to the area,'' said Mr. Frey, the Travelocity spokesman. ''But there will be long-term implications that every travel agency will have to address.''
 Among other actions it has taken, he said, Travelocity this week sent e-mail messages to 14,000 customers who had booked flights, hotel rooms and car rentals in the afflicted areas. The company has also waived the cancellation and rescheduling fees it typically charges customers, as have most airlines and other travel companies.
 Calls to Travelocity's help centers, meanwhile, have surged since the storm took aim at New Orleans, with customers often waiting 20 to 30 minutes before reaching a company representative.
 So far, Internet investors have not reacted negatively to the storm's aftermath. Expedia's shares, for instance, have hovered in the $22 range since the hurricane hit. Aaron Kessler, an Internet analyst with Piper Jaffray, an investment firm, said the online travel companies would probably issue public estimates of the damage to their businesses ''over the next couple of weeks.''
 ''There will be some impact, but it's nothing any of these companies can't absorb,'' Mr. Kessler added. Investors who were concerned about the slowed growth in the domestic online travel market, he said, had already sold their shares in recent months.
 General merchandise retailers on the Web say they have not experienced significant dropoffs in sales, at least yet. EBay, for instance, notes that it has 157 million customers worldwide. ''Trading is pretty diversified, so we don't expect a noticeable impact,'' said Chris Donlay, an eBay spokesman.
 The Web's biggest online retailer, Amazon.com, is holding an undisclosed number of packages for customers in the affected areas. An Amazon spokeswoman, Patricia Smith, declined to discuss the financial impact of the hurricane on the company.
 Scott Silverman, executive director of the industry group Shop.org, said retailers were ''most concerned now with shipping work-arounds, and trying to figure out how to communicate with customers in affected areas. Fortunately, the Gulf Coast doesn't have as high a concentration of distribution centers as places like Tennessee or Ohio, so it isn't having a major impact on distribution.''
 While bigger retailers appear diversified enough to avoid significant sales losses as a result of the hurricane, other more specialized merchants may not be as fortunate.
 ''We'll take a hit for sure,'' said John Rogers, director of e-commerce for Orvis, a Manchester, Vt., retailer of fishing supplies and apparel. ''Not only for the people in that area, but from the country as a whole. Since people are focused on something so serious, they're not thinking about shopping.''
 Mr. Rogers said that Orvis had many customers in the hard-hit area and that call center volume was down 10 percent from typical levels. ''Probably 80 percent of that is folks who were impacted by the storm,'' he said. ''We're hoping it's a short-term bump, but it's just too early to say.''
 Like many retailers, Orvis relies on catalogs to generate phone and Internet orders. But the 50,000 catalogs the company had ready to mail to the New Orleans area this week will gather dust for months or perhaps head to the shredder.
 Still, just as many industries have benefited from rebuilding efforts after natural disasters, analysts said, online merchants could witness a boom when the Gulf Coast cities begin rebuilding. Ms. Evans of Jupiter Research pointed out that many traditional retailers may not have their stores fully ready when citizens return to the city, and that electronic stores could help fill the need.
 ''These people have lost everything -- kitchen stuff, furniture, clothes, books, school supplies,'' Ms. Evans said. ''When the insurers start paying out, we'll really see the demand happen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); AIRLINES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (55%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



109 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: It's a Helluva Town, Especially in the Dark

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

New York Night
The Mystique and Its History
By Mark Caldwell
404 pages. Scribner. $30.
 New York looks best in black. Daylight flatters the skylines of Chicago and San Francisco, but Manhattan waits until dark before it shines. When other cities go to sleep, it rises; when they are dead, it is most alive.
The power and the glory of the city after sundown is Mark Caldwell's grand theme in ''New York Night,'' a sweeping work that describes the transformation of night and its pleasures from the days of the Dutch tavern to the new, improved Times Square.
 It's a big, amorphous subject, and Mr. Caldwell, an English professor at Fordham University and the author of ''A Short History of Rudeness,'' never quite gets his arms around it. For long stretches it is not clear whether he's writing a socio-economic history of New York, a specialized study of nightlife and entertainment, or a series of evocative nighttime tableaus. Sometimes he does one, sometimes another and sometimes all three at once. Confusing, errant and fitfully brilliant, the book is like a mad after-hours party that guests later pronounce a smashing success, based on the number of empty Champagne bottles left on the floor. 
 Mr. Caldwell loves the night for itself. Some of his finest pages are devoted to the sensory experience of darkness in the city at different periods. In the murk and flickering candlelight of 17th-century Manhattan, he takes the reader for a walk, feeling the dirt underfoot and listening to the rush of water all around. In the 18th century, tree frogs, on a quiet night, would send out a chorus of trills and chirps that drowned out the birds and made human conversation difficult. A century later, the drama of Manhattan nightlife played out in chiaroscuro, and ''the lights still hissed and smoked and smelled in your very face, with the lability of flame rather than the controlled evenness of electricity.'' 
 The pulse of nightlife beat faintly until well into the 18th century. The cost, the labor and the danger of lighting a home sent most people to bed early. In the early 1800's, fashionable New Yorkers, determined to push back the evening, began socializing over dinners that began in the afternoon but lasted until dusk. The entertainment ran to parlor games like Tom Come Tickle Me, in which the object was to keep from laughing when your knee was tickled. 
 Nightlife worthy of the name begins in the 1830's, at which point the book picks up momentum. For the first time, Mr. Caldwell writes, the dangers and the pleasures of the night were becoming an object of public fascination, thanks to newspapers like The New York Sun, which created the night beat and reported on crime and entertainment. ''Nighttime, still the half of life empty of salaried work, trade or religion, had, at the call of progress, succumbed to illumination and the illusions it could create,'' the author writes. 
 Mr. Caldwell likes the clash of high culture and low, rich and poor, in New York's public life, and the era of the Astor Place riots, in 1849, offers him a rich panorama, with the squalid pleasures of the Bowery providing a vivid contrast to the high-toned luxury of Broadway.
 Both worlds mingled at pleasure gardens like Niblo's, at Broadway and Prince Street, where the entertainment might include a fireworks display or, in 1866, the city's first great leg show, a proto-Ziegfeld production called ''The Black Crook.'' After the Civil War the rich created their own private world of opera houses, fine theaters, exclusive restaurants and fabulous mansions. Not until Prohibition and the Jazz Age, another of the author's favorite periods, would they mingle as freely again.
 Mr. Caldwell tries to do too much. In covering four centuries of New York history, he traces the rise of new technologies like the electric light and the automobile. He covers theater, restaurants, bars and sports. He digresses, often pointlessly. The persecution of Manhattan's most notorious abortionist, Madame Restell, has nothing to do with the subject of the book. Neither do the hobo shacks in Central Park. Many of the social trends that Mr. Caldwell spends time documenting, like drug use and crime, relate only indirectly to New York nightlife. It was not strictly necessary for him to spend an evening at Flash Dancers, a Times Square strip club, and file a lengthy report.
 With the 20th century, the pace becomes frantic. As Mr. Caldwell races back and forth, trying to cover his bases, the years fly by like the wind-torn calendar pages in an old Hollywood film. The shimmy. The Wall Street crash. Jack Benny. The Stork Club. Alger Hiss and Whittaker Chambers. Birdland. Discotheques. Stonewall. And Flash Dancers. 
 It all goes by in a blur, but Mr. Caldwell pauses just long enough, here and there, to make some shrewd points or insert a revealing detail. The 1930's owes much of the luster of its nightlife, for example, to architects who, deprived of other commercial work by the Depression, designed stylish nightclubs and restaurants. Times Square, in the 1920's, abounded in all-night boutiques selling jewelry, shoes and hats. They made a killing off the chorus girls who dropped by after the theater or after a midnight dinner with free-spending gentleman admirers in tow. The image of New York nightlife as excessive and outrageous, carefully cultivated in newspapers and on the radio, only made it more appealing to outsiders, who like to imagine that the city ''was a wild party that with luck anybody might crash.'' 
 Mr. Caldwell ends as he began, with a walk. In a descriptive tour de force, he ambles down Fifth Avenue in Midtown, cuts over to Times Square and follows Broadway to the Battery, peeling away the layers of time as he moves south, ticking off the great landmarks that, in their day, made New York's nocturnal pulse race. He heads out in the evening, of course. Nighttime is the right time. Best of all, after a few hours it comes back.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Caldwell (Photo by John Holt/Scribner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LITERATURE (74%); WRITERS (74%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: William Grimes; Mark Caldwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



110 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Amid Difficulties, Leaders Of Labor See Opportunity

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
As they have on past Labor Days, the nation's union leaders are vowing to reverse labor's decline, but that goal is made more difficult this year by the schism in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and by the likelihood that striking mechanics at Northwest Airlines will suffer a bruising defeat.
 ''Labor is in some pretty tough rapids right now,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor expert at the University of California, Berkeley.
The labor movement's troubles come as millions of workers are feeling squeezed. Notwithstanding the steady job growth over the last year, median household income remains below 1999 levels, and wages have trailed inflation over the past year, partly because of rising gasoline prices. And millions of workers have lost health care coverage while many companies have reduced retirement benefits for their workers. 
 ''Employers are, for want of a better word, in the ascendancy,'' said Daniel Mitchell, a professor of management and public policy at the University of California, Los Angeles. 
 With polls showing that most Americans are dissatisfied with their economic situation, John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said conditions seemed ripe for unions to rebound.
 ''A record 53 percent of nonunion workers say they'd join a union tomorrow if given the chance -- that's the highest percentage in 20 years,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''It is our job to reach out to them.''
 Unions have enjoyed some successes, he said, noting that the Communications Workers of America unionized 2,100 Cingular cellphone workers in recent months. And the Service Employees International Union, which quit the labor federation in July, said it was close to organizing 6,000 janitors in Houston.
 Still, the percentage of workers in unions has steadily fallen, to 12.5 percent last year from nearly 35 percent a half century ago. 
 One reason for the continued decline is that labor's longtime base -- manufacturing -- has lost three million jobs since 1999, representing a sixth of manufacturing's total. Also, fewer than 10 unions have heeded Mr. Sweeney's appeals to vastly step up their efforts to unionize workers. 
 Even as union leaders talk rebound, labor has taken a pounding in the most prominent recent labor dispute, the 16-day walkout by 4,430 mechanics at Northwest Airlines. Northwest has continued to operate smoothly, helped by replacements and outside contractors, many of them former union members.
 Northwest had made elaborate preparations to weather a strike as it made stringent demands: $176 million in concessions and cutting the mechanics' numbers in half. More than a year ago, Northwest hired outside contractors to service its aircraft; three months before the strike deadline, it began hiring and training more than 1,000 licensed mechanics to cross the picket line.
 ''Mechanics were thought to be a fairly protected group with a fair amount of bargaining leverage because of their skills and the difficulty in replacing them,'' said Harry Katz, dean of the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations. ''Unless a crash occurs at Northwest-- and nobody is hoping for that -- it looks as if the union will lose dramatically.'' 
 Industrial relations experts say the strike is bound to have destructive ripples for labor, even though most unions view the mechanics' union, the Airline Mechanics Fraternal Association, as an isolated, maverick outfit. Labor experts say that if Northwest continues running smoothly, the strike will effectively be lost and the union busted.
 ''There is a demonstration effect,'' Mr. Katz said. ''This shows the other airlines the way to do it.''
 Airlines and automobiles have long been considered the industries in which labor was strongest, but now they are the fields in which labor seems most embattled, largely because of the companies' staggering financial losses. More than any other union, the United Auto Workers had set the pace for the nation's workers, especially in its talks with General Motors Corporation, which for decades was the nation's largest company.
 But now General Motors has thrown the U.A.W. on the defensive, insisting that it will face dire competitiveness problems unless the union agrees to measures reducing the company's nearly $6 billion annual health care bill. G.M., which lost $1.2 billion in the first half of the year, spends an average of $1,500 per car on health costs, an amount believed to be $1,000 more than Toyota.
 The auto workers are by no means a weak union, and unlike Northwest, G.M. would have an extraordinarily hard time replacing its workers if they walked out. 
 The union is resisting G.M.'s demands to reopen its contract, which expires in 2007, and to grant concessions now. Nonetheless, many labor experts predict that the auto workers will be forced to accept some important concessions, either now or in 2007, to help preserve jobs.
 ''One strange thing is that this dispute is happening when auto sales are booming,'' said Mr. Katz of Cornell. ''G.M. has very high pension and health care costs, and if the union agrees to only incremental changes now, that will lead to a really deep, deep crisis when the next recession comes.''
 Not all unions are on the defensive. On Saturday, 18,000 members of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers went on strike against Boeing, seemingly taking the offensive against a company whose profits are soaring.
 The workers overwhelmingly rejected the company's offer of $6,000 in lump-sum payments and a 5.5 percent raise over three years. Boeing also proposed a 10 percent increase in their pensions while calling for workers to shoulder more of their health insurance costs. 
 Noting that Boeing's profits have tripled over the last three years, Mark Blondin, president of the main machinists' local at Boeing, said the union had ''simply asked Boeing to do the right thing for their work force.''
 While manufacturers facing increased global competition slug it out with their unions, labor leaders in the service sector see growth opportunities among low-wage workers whose jobs cannot be sent overseas or lost to foreign competition, including janitors, cashiers, dishwashers, hotel maids, security guards and nursing home aides. The three unions that quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the service employees, the Teamsters, and the food and commercial workers, vow to help revive labor by seeking to unionize those workers.
 In a Labor Day statement, Andrew Stern, the service employees president, said, ''A new innovative group of unions is committed to turning hope into action.'' 
 Some labor experts say the schism in labor could spur a healthy competition between the breakaway unions and other unions that results in more workers being organized. But the schism could also lead to a destructive rivalry in which one union seeks to take members from another, as is happening with the service employees' efforts to take 9,000 home health aides in Riverside County, Calif., from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
 With all the troubles workers face, Professor Shaiken of Berkeley sees hope for unions.
 ''When you read the polls about worker anxiety,'' he said, ''and you put that together with rising gasoline prices and declining wages and all the other things that are out there, if we didn't have unions, we'd have to invent them this Labor Day.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Four workers with a total of 78 years' service joined an aircraft mechanics' picket line against Northwest Airlines yesterday in Minneapolis. (Photo by Janet Hostetter/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); STRIKES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); US LABOR DAY (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (54%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Labor; Labor Day; Airlines and Airplanes; Organized Labor; Public Opinion

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Northwest Airlines; Airline Mechanics Fraternal Assn

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; John J Sweeney

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



111 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Working Hard at Nothing All Day

BYLINE: By Corinne Maier. 
Corinne Maier, an economist, is the author of ''Bonjour Laziness: Jumping Off the Corporate Ladder.'' This article was translated by The Times from the French.

DATELINE: Paris 

 BODY:
THOREAU deplored the supremacy of work in this way: ''It would be glorious to see mankind at leisure for once. It is nothing but work, work, work.'' Fortunately, there is one day a year in which one celebrates work without going there: Labor Day. 
 And it's you Americans who have invented it. We French thank you for that, even if few of us realize that this paradoxical day comes from across the Atlantic. Nonetheless, it was in America, a decidedly pioneering land, where the idea of a shorter workweek, a notion dear to French hearts, was born. 
 All that began on May 1, 1886. On that historic day, American workers went on strike to demand an eight-hour day; at that time it was habitual to work 10 to 12 hours -- quelle horreur! Alas, the strike resulted in the Haymarket tragedy, and European Socialists, shocked, decided to fix May 1 as the day for demanding better working conditions.
 Even though the impetus for the May 1 Fete du Travail comes from America, your Labor Day is not celebrated then, but in September. And this difference in date changes everything. For in France, May 1 announces summer, and we also have a saying, ''En mai, fais ce qu'il te plait'' -- that is, in May, do as you please. The day is also the prelude to a series of warm-weather events that the French dote on: the Cannes film festival, the French Open tennis tournament and especially the Tour de France, even when it's always Lance Armstrong who wins.
 Thus, in France, Labor Day is the beginning of a season of pleasures, while for you in America, it is the official end. You don't work that day, but vacation is over and it's time to roll up your sleeves and buckle down. You have one consolation: your Labor Day is always on a Monday, so you are sure of enjoying what we French call with delight a ''week-end prolonge.'' May 1, however, capriciously moves around. This year was especially disappointing: May 1 was a Sunday, so no break from work. Next year, though, yippee: it's a Monday!
 Aside from the date, the French and Americans simply celebrate Labor Day differently. Americans have picnics and family gatherings; we have the lily of the valley, brought into the city by rural folk who've gathered it in the woods, and protests. Every year, the famous May 1 protest gathers together union members, militants and leftists. This march, though closely covered by the news media, doesn't usually get a lot of attention from the public. There are exceptions, as in 2002, when the threat of the extreme right's coming to power drove a million Parisians into the streets. I was there too: engulfed in an enormous crowd, I found myself shoulder to shoulder with a colleague from the office. Here indeed is proof that May 1 is the Fete du Travail.
 Still, it is the day when the Americans, like the French, should reflect on the meaning of their jobs. Everybody knows that the two nationalities don't have the same attitude toward work. Americans think the French are lazy, and the French think Americans are interested only in money. Of course, these are stereotypes, as are many other perceptions we have about each other (after all, some Frenchwomen do get fat). But because the French work 35 hours a week, Americans sneer, forgetting that in many years French workers have a higher productivity rate than their American counterparts -- proof that you can work better by working less. 
 Americans also forget that going to work every day is often more a chore than a pleasure. You seem more and more disillusioned about work: only a third of you say that you love your jobs. In such conditions, it's not surprising that you spend on average two hours of your workday not working. Answering personal e-mail messages, shopping online, playing computer games or chatting with co-workers it's so much more pleasant than working, really. 
 My American friends, there you are caught, red-handed, being lazy. Is that enough to reconcile the Americans and the French? United in indolence, a foundation of sloth in which Labor Day is the cornerstone. Will Laziness Unlimited be the future of work? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); STRIKES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); WORK WEEK (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); FESTIVALS (67%); TOURNAMENTS (64%); WEATHER (64%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



112 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE ECONOMIC DIVIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: In Tale of Two Families, a Chasm Between Haves and Have-Nots 

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: KENNER, La., Sept. 4 

 BODY:
It was moving day for the families of Gaynell Porretto and Tracy Jackson, the first page of the next chapter in their Hurricane Katrina horror stories. 
 Mrs. Porretto's four-car caravan crammed with a lifetime of photo albums, a few changes of clothes and coolers of drinks pulled up to a yellow house with a wide front porch that she had just rented for $600 in the humble hamlet of Arnaudville, La.
It is 125 miles from her storm-sacked home in the New Orleans suburb of Metairie, half the size for twice as many people, but she can see the church steeple from the yard, and her son is signed up for football at the nearby high school.
 ''I have a ZIP code!'' she said, exulting. ''It's the happiest I've ever been.'' 
 Outside the New Orleans airport here, Ms. Jackson's four sickly and hungry children, ages 1, 3, 5 and 7, were sprawled on a skycap's cart as she slogged through the sweaty, snail-like line, the baby atop a blue plastic bin filled with what they had scrounged from strangers. 
 It is all they have, their $2,000 cash savings burned up with their belongings -- including birth certificates -- in a post-flood fire at their apartment in uptown New Orleans. Even as they waited to board a plane, they did not know where they were taking it.
 ''I'm just hoping it's a better place,'' she whispered. ''I've never been on an airplane before, I'm afraid of heights.''
 Two families displaced by the same disaster, both facing uncertain futures as they moved forward on Saturday, but in completely divergent circumstances.
 Just as it ripped through levees to send water pouring through New Orleans, the storm cleaved a harsh chasm among the region's refugees, providing a stark portrait of the vast divide between America's haves and have-nots.
 The more than 100 members of Mrs. Porretto's extended family have cars that carried them out last Sunday morning, well before the hurricane hit. 
 Ms. Jackson, who does not know how to drive, escaped on foot only after the floodwaters started filling her apartment on Tuesday, walking first to a bridge, then to the squalid Superdome. 
 Mrs. Porretto, 51, has an American Express card that covered her $564.26 bill at the Hilton in Lafayette, La., where a cousin who works for AT&T secured a low corporate rate when she booked a block of rooms days before of the storm.
 Ms. Jackson, 24, does not have a bank account, and her husband, Jerel Brown, spent their last $25 to buy fish and shrimp from men grilling on the street in the chaos, so now there is nothing in the pockets of his baggy jeans but a crushed pack of Benson & Hedges someone gave him to calm him down.
 The Porrettos have cellphones and connections in city government and churches that not only helped them find one of the last available rental properties anywhere around here, but also let them sneak back into their neighborhood early this weekend to grab televisions and furnishings for their new house. 
 Mr. Brown, in tears, has no recourse but to ask a reporter to look for his missing brother, Wallace, and if he turned up, find out how they could get back in touch.
 John Edwards, the former senator whose presidential primary campaign last year was based on the theme that America is a country torn in two by race and class, sent an e-mail to supporters last week, saying that the hurricane's destruction exposed ''a harsher example of two Americas.''
 ''Every single resident of New Orleans, regardless of their wealth or status, will have terrible losses and life-altering experiences,'' Mr. Edwards wrote. But poor people, he added, ''suffered the most from Katrina because they always suffer the most.''
 Mrs. Porretto, a court clerk, and her husband, Joel, a retired police officer, are hardly rich. But as they embark on life in exile, they look like royalty compared with Mr. Brown, Ms. Jackson and their children, wandering to a destination unknown with little more than the clothes they have worn for a week.
 ''We don't know where we're going, we don't know how we're going to survive when we get there -- we're starting all over,'' Mr. Brown said as he stood in line for three hours in the airport's heat. ''I never been out of this city. I'm going to be a stranger.''
 Nearly one in four of New Orleans' 445,000 residents live in poverty, many of them in neighborhoods like the one where the Jackson-Brown clan huddled in a $350-a-month two-bedroom apartment across from a dilapidated and dangerous housing project; 69 percent of the city is black, and the median household income is $31,369. To the west in Metairie, where Ellen DeGeneres grew up, the median income is $41,265, just below the national average, 87 percent of the 145,000 residents are white, and fewer than 1 in 10 are poor.
 But in the hurricane's wake, the poorest have turned desperately destitute, while the well-to-do make do with what they have left. 
 For the past week, the Porrettos and their many cousins converged at the Hilton, Lafayette's finest hotel, drinking red wine late into the night as they laughed in the lobby. The teenagers put a dollar on a string in front of the elevator, watching guests lunge for it as they yanked it away. The adults stayed up until 2 a.m. daring the dozens of dogs among the evacuated to strut their stuff.
 ''Every dog that did a trick, we drank a beer,'' Mrs. Porretto explained.
 But some days, she stayed in bed depressed through the afternoon, or burst into tears out of nowhere. Their house has roof damage, and they do not yet know what the water has wrought inside. A Ford Taurus full of prized possessions that her husband parked outside Macy's to ride out the storm has been ravaged. The court where she has worked for 25 years is closed indefinitely. Her sister Kathy Skeins, whose family of four will share the little house along with Mrs. Porretto's 78-year-old mother-in-law, is worried about how her boys, 15 and 11, will fare in public school for the first time, and what will happen to the $3,500 tuition she already paid at the Catholic school back home.
 ''It hit us Monday that we were homeless,'' Mrs. Porretto said. ''We have meltdowns. You just have nothing to look forward to.''
 Until they found the shotgun-style house in Arnaudville, a town of 1,400 down a long country road north of Lafayette. 
 On Saturday, as the two sisters unpacked the storm-survival arsenal they had amassed at the hotel -- pounds of ham for sandwiches and a new toaster oven, all manner of snacks and condiments, even a bottle of olives to ease Mrs. Porretto's arthritis -- a neighbor stopped by with a box of cleaning supplies.
 The landlord, who is lending an air mattress and queen bed, drew a map to the nearby restaurant and movie theater. The women debated whether they need a land line, but agreed cable television was a must, and set out shopping to stock their new shelves.
 ''We need to make a list, Gay,'' Mrs. Skeins said. ''We need a mop and a broom, so we can keep up the kitchen.''
 Mrs. Porretto propped a photo collage of her son's first year on a bedroom windowsill, and imagined the morning sun streaming in through the living room. The sisters stocked the refrigerator with bottles of Coors Light they had brought.
 ''Gotta relax some way,'' Mrs. Skeins said. ''We'll sit on the porch and have a cold beer.''
 ''We've got a porch, Kathy, I can't wait!'' Mrs. Porretto said, forgetting the hurricane for a minute. ''We grew up with a porch!''
 On moving day, Mrs. Porretto wore a clean T-shirt and fresh lipstick. Two hours' drive away at the airport, Ms. Jackson was braless under her soiled shirt and had a blue bandana covering her unwashed hair.
 The Skeins' 125-pound Rottweiler, Buster, galloped across the grass in Arnaudville to drink from a spigot, after a week squished in a hotel bathroom; the Jackson children are without their mutt, Max, last seen as their apartment began to burn.
 ''We heard the dog barking,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''I think he's dead.''
 Like the Porrettos, Ms. Jackson, Mr. Brown, their children, a nephew and a friend they call Auntie left New Orleans last Sunday morning, to stay with a friend. But they went back on Tuesday, and as the water rose to waist level, they fled with no provisions. After two nights shielding the baby's eyes from dead bodies at the feces-infested Superdome, they set out for the convention center, where rumors of rapes and worse left them taking turns sleeping on the floor in fear for their children's safety.
 ''Last night I heard a baby screaming, 'Stop, stop, get off me, don't touch me,''' Ms. Jackson recalled. 
 Their blue plastic bin is filled not with family treasures, but with scraps that other refugees and relief workers have handed out: three rolls of toilet paper, a box of Teddy Grahams, toddlers blue plastic sandals, two apples, a gallon of milk.
 Mr. Brown was barefoot until a friend gave him a pair of sneakers that remain unlaced because they are too small; he has no socks. An elderly lady gave Ms. Jackson a quilted handbag to hold diapers and the pink pills the triage nurse gave to 7-year-old Waynenisha, who suffers from febrile seizures. 
 ''It has some perfume and some body spray,'' she said thankfully. ''I'm a lady. I can't walk around smelling like a grown man.''
 Now, Ms. Jackson is wondering whether she will be able to enroll her children in school without identification -- even her own Social Security card is gone. Mr. Brown, who had been making do washing 18-wheelers and running errands for a convenience store, said he will ''go there and get a job if they let me,'' though he is still unsure where there might be.
 ''We just started life's journey together,'' he said, gesturing at the little ones on the luggage cart. ''As we're building, it just all fell apart at one time.''
 Standing in the sweltering line, Mr. Brown occasionally lashed out, slapping the leg of a child on the move or barking at others in line for pushing. When an older woman passed out on the curb, he pushed through the crowd to pour water down her head and back. ''Where's the help?'' he called out. ''We need help! Give her some air, please.''
 A few minutes later, the Rev. Jesse Jackson turned up with three buses. The Jackson-Browns leaped out of line to rush aboard with their blue plastic bin and grabbed the last row in the air-conditioned coach, leaving the skycap's cart behind.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gaynell Porretto, left, talking with her sister and her mother-in-law in the living room of a house they rented 125 miles from New Orleans.
Jerel Brown and Tracy Jackson in line at the New Orleans airport. With four children and few possessions, they did not know their destination. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Gaynell Porretto, top, in the kitchen of her newly rented home. Jerel Brown, above, pushes a cart bearing his four children and remaining belongings. ''Where's the help?'' Mr. Brown said. ''We need help!'' (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Blacks; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Gaynell Porretto; Tracy Jackson; Jerel Brown; Jodi Wilgoren

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La); Metairie (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



113 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; COURT IN TRANSITION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Eight Decisions That Helped Shape Doctrines

 BODY:
In his 33-year tenure on the Supreme Court, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist used the power of judicial review to translate many of his long-held positions into binding precedent. These included an enhanced role for the states and a shrinking of the role of the federal courts by taking them out of the business of running prisons, schools and other institutions of government. 
 Among the chief justice's most important opinions were those that set limits on the Constitution's due process guarantee, declining to expand the boundaries of due process in a way that would create new rights or encroach on state power. 
What follows, in his own words, is a sampling of the legal doctrines he helped to shape.

Due Process, 1976
 From his majority opinion in Paul v. Davis, 1976, holding that the Louisville, Ky., police department did not violate a man's constitutional rights by falsely labeling him a convicted shoplifter in a flyer distributed to local merchants.
 ''Respondent [Edward Charles Davis 3d] has pointed to no specific constitutional guarantee safeguarding the interest he asserts has been invaded. Rather, he apparently believes that the 14th Amendment's due process clause should ex proprio vigore [by its own strength] extend to him a right to be free of injury wherever the state may be characterized as the tortfeasor. But such a reading would make of the 14th Amendment a font of tort law to be superimposed upon whatever systems may already be administered by the states. We have noted the 'constitutional shoals' that confront any attempt to derive from Congressional civil rights statutes a body of general federal tort law. 
 ''While we have in a number of our prior cases pointed out the frequently drastic effect of the 'stigma' which may result from defamation by the government in a variety of contexts, this line of cases does not establish the proposition that reputation alone, apart from some more tangible interests such as employment, is either 'liberty' or 'property' by itself sufficient to invoke the procedural protection of the due process clause.''

Free Expression, 1989
 From his dissenting opinion in Texas v. Johnson, 1989, in which the majority held that burning an American flag as a political protest was a form of constitutionally protected expression and could not be made a crime.
 ''The uniquely deep awe and respect for our flag felt by virtually all of us are bundled off under the rubric of 'designated symbols' that the First Amendment prohibits the government from 'establishing.' But the government has not 'established' this feeling; 200 years of history have done that. The government is simply recognizing as a fact the profound regard for the American flag created by that history when it enacts statutes prohibiting the disrespectful public burning of the flag. 
 ''The court decides that the American flag is just another symbol, about which not only must opinions pro and con be tolerated, but for which the most minimal public respect may not be enjoined. The government may conscript men into the armed forces where they must fight and perhaps die for the flag, but the government may not prohibit the public burning of the banner under which they fight.''

Abortion, 1992
 From his dissenting opinion in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, 1992, in which the majority voted 5 to 4 to reaffirm the right to abortion that the court first announced in Roe v. Wade, 1973. 
 ''We believe that Roe was wrongly decided, and that it can and should be overruled consistently with our traditional approach to stare decisis [adherence to precedent]. 
 ''In the end, having failed to put forth any evidence to prove any true reliance, the joint opinion's argument is based solely on generalized assertions about the national psyche, on a belief that the people of this country have grown accustomed to the Roe decision over the last 19 years and have 'ordered their thinking and living around' it. At various points in the past, the same could have been said about this court's erroneous decisions that the Constitution allowed 'separate but equal' treatment of minorities, see Plessy v. Ferguson (1896), or that 'liberty' under the due process clause protected 'freedom of contract,' see Lochner v. New York (1905). The 'separate but equal' doctrine lasted 58 years after Plessy, and Lochner's protection of contractual freedom lasted 32 years. However, the simple fact that a generation or more had grown used to these major decisions did not prevent the court from correcting its errors in those cases, nor should it prevent us from correctly interpreting the Constitution here. 

Gun-Free Zones, 1995
 From his majority opinion in United States v. Lopez, 1995, striking down the federal Gun-Free School Zones Act as beyond Congress's authority to enact legislation under the Constitution's commerce clause.
 ''The possession of a gun in a local school zone is in no sense an economic activity that might, through repetition elsewhere, substantially affect any sort of interstate commerce. To uphold the government's contentions here, we would have to pile inference upon inference in a manner that would bid fair to convert Congressional authority under the commerce clause to a general police power of the sort retained by the states. Admittedly, some of our prior cases have taken long steps down that road, giving great deference to Congressional action. The broad language in these opinions has suggested the possibility of additional expansion, but we decline here to proceed any further. To do so would require us to conclude that the Constitution's enumeration of powers does not presuppose something not enumerated, and that there never will be a distinction between what is truly national and what is truly local. This we are unwilling to do.''

Assisted Suicide, 1997
 From his majority opinion in Washington v. Glucksberg, 1997, holding that the Constitution does not convey a right to physician-assisted suicide.
 ''By extending constitutional protection to an asserted right or liberty interest, we, to a great extent, place the matter outside the arena of public debate and legislative action. We must therefore exercise the utmost care whenever we are asked to break new ground in this field, lest the liberty protected by the due process clause be subtly transformed into the policy preferences of the members of this court. 
 ''The history of the law's treatment of assisted suicide in this country has been and continues to be one of the rejection of nearly all efforts to permit it. That being the case, our decisions lead us to conclude that the asserted 'right' to assistance in committing suicide is not a fundamental liberty interest protected by the due process clause
 ''Throughout the nation, Americans are engaged in an earnest and profound debate about the morality, legality, and practicality of physician-assisted suicide. Our holding permits this debate to continue, as it should in a democratic society.''

Congressional Authority, 2000
 From his majority opinion in United States v. Morrison, 2000, invalidating the federal Violence Against Woman Act [referred to in the opinion as Section 13981] as an improper use of Congressional authority under the Commerce Clause and the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection. The case began as a lawsuit brought under the act by a Virginia college student, Christy Brzonkala, accusing two varsity football players of raping her. 
 ''Gender-motivated crimes of violence are not, in any sense of the phrase, economic activity. While we need not adopt a categorical rule against aggregating the effects of any noneconomic activity in order to decide these cases, thus far in our nation's history our cases have upheld Commerce Clause regulation of intrastate activity only where that activity is economic in nature. 
 ''Petitioner Brzonkala's complaint alleges that she was the victim of a brutal assault. But Congress's effort in Section 13981 to provide a federal civil remedy can be sustained neither under the Commerce Clause nor under Section Five of the 14th Amendment. If the allegations here are true, no civilized system of justice could fail to provide her a remedy for the conduct of respondent Morrison. But under our federal system that remedy must be provided by the Commonwealth of Virginia, and not by the United States.''

Miranda, 2000
 From his majority opinion in Dickerson v. United States, 2000, invalidating a Congressional effort to overturn the Miranda rule, requiring warnings to criminal suspects of their right against self-incrimination, that the court established in its 1966 landmark Miranda decision.
 ''Congress may not legislatively supersede our decisions interpreting and applying the Constitution. This case therefore turns on whether the Miranda court announced a constitutional rule or merely exercised its supervisory authority to regulate evidence in the absence of Congressional direction. 
 ''Whether or not we would agree with Miranda's reasoning and its resulting rule, were we addressing the issue in the first instance, the principles of stare decisis weigh heavily against overruling it now. Miranda has become embedded in routine police practice to the point where the warnings have become part of our national culture. 
 ''In sum, we conclude that Miranda announced a constitutional rule that Congress may not supersede legislatively. Following the rule of stare decisis, we decline to overrule Miranda ourselves.''

Tuition Vouchers, 2002
 From his majority opinion in Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 2002, upholding the constitutionality of Ohio's program to provide tuition vouchers for parents to use in paying for private school, including parochial school.
 ''Where a government aid program is neutral with respect to religion, and provides assistance directly to a broad class of citizens who, in turn, direct government aid to religious school wholly as a result of their own genuine and independent private choice, the program is not readily subject to challenge under the Establishment Clause. A program that shares these features permits government aid to reach religious institutions only by way of the deliberate choices of numerous individual recipients. The incidental advancement of a religious mission, or perceived endorsement of a religious message, is reasonably attributable to the individual recipient, not to the government, whose role ends with the disbursement of benefits.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist at the court in 1985. (Photo by Ken Regan/Camera 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DUE PROCESS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TORTS (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (75%); POLITICS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); SHOPLIFTING (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%) Conservatism (US Politics); Constitutions; Decisions and Verdicts

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US) 

PERSON: William H (Chief Justice) Rehnquist

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



114 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Care for the National Parks?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I am outraged at the push to pollute our wilderness with all manner of off-road vehicles. With gas prices soaring, it is irresponsible to allow greater use of the vehicles. And encouraging sitting and riding as leisure activities only adds to the problem of obesity.
 Our economy and our bodies would benefit if walking, hiking, climbing and cross-country skiing were the only ways to see our beautiful parks.

Anne-Marie Hislop
Davenport, Iowa, Aug. 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); HIKING (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (50%) IOWA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



115 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; COURT IN TRANSITION: IN THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Chaotic Week Leaves Bush Team on Defensive

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Perhaps not since Richard M. Nixon faced Vietnam-era tumult abroad and at home has an American president had to meet quite the combination of foreign war, domestic tribulations and political division that President Bush now confronts, from the Persian Gulf to the Gulf Coast to Capitol Hill.
 ''This is a storm of enormous magnitude,'' Mr. Bush told relief workers at the disaster operations center of the Red Cross here on Sunday morning. He was referring to Hurricane Katrina, of course, but his words could also apply to the enduring insurgency in Iraq and the looming battles over the first double vacancy on the Supreme Court since Nixon nominated William H. Rehnquist to the Supreme Court 34 years ago.
Each challenge is unique, but they are all interrelated. The chaos in New Orleans may have bumped bad news from Baghdad off the front pages for a few days, but only in favor of equally grim images from the home front and pointed questions about whether a National Guard sapped by repeated tours of active duty on foreign soil was as prepared as possible for a disaster here. 
 The war, high gasoline prices and persistent, low-grade unease that good economic statistics have not left more Americans feeling secure had already taken a toll on Mr. Bush's job approval ratings. The wave of bipartisan criticism of his administration's handling of the hurricane may well constrict his options as he seeks a successor for Chief Justice Rehnquist. His presidency might not be on the level of peril faced by Lyndon B. Johnson, but his authority has come under challenge as never before.
 ''I think he's really undermined his credibility at this point, and it really saddles him with the kind of problems that Johnson and Nixon faced,'' said Robert Dallek, a presidential historian and Johnson biographer. ''These crises are such a heavy burden, and they are so self-inflicted, except for the court vacancies, that if he is not very careful and tries to put across someone who is seen as an ultraconservative, he is going to touch off a conflagration in the Senate.''
 Even before the hurricane, the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's second-term domestic agenda, his plan to overhaul Social Security, was all but dead for this year. Now his and his party's plans for eliminating the estate tax (with Senate debate to begin as early as this week) would seem to carry political risks that Democrats are already eagerly exploiting, in light of the vast new needs envisioned for disaster relief and rebuilding.
 Few in the capital seemed inclined to argue with the simple assessment of Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas and one of the White House's closest allies on the Judiciary Committee, who said, ''When it rains, it pours -- figuratively and literally.''
 Much remained uncertain late Sunday, including whether the president would choose to make Judge John G. Roberts Jr. his nominee to succeed Chief Justice Rehnquist instead of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, or choose someone else altogether, perhaps a woman or a Latino.
 Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales has drawn intense fire from some conservatives, who see him as insufficiently opposed to abortion. But his up-by-the-bootstraps background might now have extraordinary appeal for a president facing criticism that he failed to show adequate sensitivity to, or even particular initial awareness of, the plight of the overwhelmingly poor and minority population left behind in New Orleans when the storm and flooding struck.
 ''I think if the president picked two Anglo-Saxon men, he would lose the potential of some support,'' said Richard D. Friedman, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School and an expert on Supreme Court history. ''If he picks a Latino, there are clearly going to be some people who may be ideologically predisposed against that nominee who are going to be turned around by the prospect for the first Hispanic chief justice.''
 But one Republican strategist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to be seen as speaking for the president, said that while it was ''a totally reasonable question'' to ask what effect the hurricane and other current events might have on Mr. Bush's decision, ''it's not going to affect his judgment.'' 
 The strategist noted that before Mr. Bush chose Judge Roberts almost seven weeks ago, ''there was a lot of speculation that it's got to be a woman, it's got to be a Hispanic, it's got to be someone the Democrats will support, and it didn't affect his decision-making, and it won't affect his decision-making now.''
 Perhaps. But the plain truth is that Judge Roberts was far from the most controversial candidate Mr. Bush could have picked to succeed Justice O'Connor, and all but his most dedicated opponents now assume his confirmation will go through. It is hard not to conclude that Mr. Bush was hoping to avoid a big fight. And that was before a grieving mother named Cindy Sheehan put an unexpectedly galvanizing human face on criticism of the war in Iraq, before the hurricane's desperate victims shined a similar spotlight on the government's failings.
 In the short term, Mr. Bush seems likely to be consumed with assuring the public that he is on the case of hurricane relief. He is to head to the region again on Monday, and aides cautioned against any expectation that he would make an immediate announcement on a new court nominee, however thoroughly the White House may have already vetted potential candidates in the expectation that Chief Justice Rehnquist might soon retire.
 President Nixon himself summarized the stakes, when he announced Justice Rehnquist's nomination on television on the night of Oct. 21, 1971. ''Presidents come and go, but the Supreme Court, through its decisions, goes on forever,'' he said, adding: ''They will make decisions which will affect your lives and the lives of your children for generations to come.''
 In the longer term, it is hard to know just what effect the criticism over Hurricane Katrina will have on Mr. Bush's fortunes, or his party's, in next year's midterm elections. It seems at least probable that, among many black Americans in particular, the administration's early stumbles will remain a raw spot long after the floodwaters have been drained and New Orleans's levees rebuilt. 
 Less dramatic episodes have had enduring political effects. In October 1960, John F. Kennedy called Martin Luther King Jr.'s wife, Coretta, to offer assistance after Dr. King was jailed in the wake of a lunch-counter sit-in. Mr. Nixon, who had had better relations with Dr. King than Mr. Kennedy had, and sympathized with his plight, ultimately declined to do so or make a public statement. Mr. Kennedy greatly increased the Democrats' share of the black vote in the next month's election, and Mr. Nixon lost by the narrowest of margins.
 Mr. Bush himself will never face election again, but he will face the bar of history. When he arrived at St. John's Church on Sunday morning, just across Lafayette Park from the statue commemorating the triumph of one of his predecessors, Gen. Andrew Jackson, at the Battle of New Orleans, he could have been forgiven for feeling besieged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (52%); OIL & GAS PRICES (52%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Katrina (Storm); Election Issues; Public Opinion; United States Armament and Defense; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States International Relations; News and News Media; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US); Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); JOHN CORNYN (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; Todd S Purdum; William H (Chief Justice) Rehnquist

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (73%) New Orleans (La); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



116 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-6

Return of Exiled Leaders Causes Stir in Afghanistan
A former Communist general in Afghanistan, Shahnawaz Tanai, has returned to his home district, after 32 years of living in exile, to make a political comeback. The Tanai tribe accorded him the traditional greeting. General Tanai is just one of dozens of former Communists to make a political return, representing one of the most contentious issues of the campaign. A3

Iran Rejects Europe's Demand
Iran rejected a call by Europe to halt its nuclear program in two weeks or face possible Security Council penalties, and said it would not give in to what it called bullying. A3

Egypt to Ignore Poll Monitors
The counry's electoral commission said that it would not abide by a court ruling authorizing non-government organizations to monitor the coming election for president, a decision that effectively placed the commission above the law and called into question the integrity of the vote scheduled to take place on Wednesday. A4

Egyptian investigators say they have concluded that three recent attacks in the Sinai Peninsula were linked. The assaults included the bombings at Taba in October and Sharm el Sheik in July and a smaller attack in August on peacekeepers in the Sinai. A4

Schroder Debates Candidate
Germany's conservative leader, Angela Merkel, accused Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of saddling the country with record high unemployment and a faltering economy, as the two met in a televised debate two weeks before an election that most polls predict will make Mrs. Merkel the first female chancellor in German history. A6

Fox Counters U.S. Criticism
President Vicente Fox responded to criticism from American authorities about a recent surge in violence and illegal immigration along the border, saying that the United States shares responsibility for the problems and should work harder with Mexico to fix them. A6

Palestine Official Pleads Guilty
A prominent member of the Palestinian Parliament, Husam Khader, pleaded guilty in an Israeli military court to charges of assisting an armed Palestinian faction that has carried out many attacks against Israel, the military said. A6

Hussein Trial to Start Oct. 19
The trial of Saddam Hussein will begin in six weeks, the Iraqi government said, when he and seven aides face a special tribunal on charges of massacring almost 150 residents from the town of Dujail, the scene of a failed assassination attempt against Mr. Hussein 23 years ago. A6

Putin Shuffles Navy Command
President Vladimir V. Putin shuffled the Russian Navy's high command, a move expected after the latest submarine accident in August in which seven sailors aboard a mini-submarine were saved with the help of other countries. A6

NATIONAL A7-19

New Orleans SearchersAttention to the Dead
Troops patrolled the streets, rescuers hunted for stragglers and New Orleans looked like a wrecked ghost town as the evacuation of the city neared completion and officials turned to the task of collecting bodies in a ghastly landscape awash in possibly thousands of corpses. A1

As the Bush administration tried to show a more forceful effort to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina, government officials escalated their criticism and sniping over who was to blame for the problems with the initial response. A1

Strained by an influx of refugees , Texas struggled to house about a quarter-million victims of Hurricane Katrina in shelters and hotel rooms and began organizing an emergency airlift to divert thousands more to other states. A13

The devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina became a rallying cry for African-American religious and political leaders in Houston, President Bush's former hometown, with pleas for charity mixed with a seething anger at the response to the crisis. A10

Perhaps not since Richard M. Nixon faced Vietnam-era tumult abroad and at home has an American president had to meet quite the combination of foreign war, domestic tribulations and political division that President Bush now confronts, from the Persian Gulf to the Gulf Coast to Capitol Hill. A1

New Orleans police officers shot and killed four people and wounded two others who had fired at officers escorting a convoy of contractors across a bridge, the authorities said. A13

Rehnquist Death Stirs Battle
The death of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist opened a second front in the ideological battle over the Supreme Court, with President Bush saying he would act quickly to replace him. A senior Republican aide said the schedule for the Roberts confirmation hearings, which had been set to begin Tuesday, was expected to be revised. A1

Advocacy groups on the left and the right scrambled to adjust to what had suddenly become a far more complicated struggle over judicial nominations with the death of Chief Justice Rehnquist. A19

William H. Rehnquist, who died at the age of 80, almost a year after learning he had thyroid cancer, helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 years as chief justice of the United States. A17

Supreme Court justices say they were as surprised as the rest of the country to learn that the chief justice had died. A19

Labor Leaders See Opportunity
As they have on past Labor Days, the nation's union leaders are vowing to reverse labor's decline, but that goal is made more difficult this year by the schism in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. A7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Candidates CriticizeResponse to Hurricane
Outrage over the federal government's response to Hurricane Katrina has worked its way into New York City's mayoral campaign, with the leading Democratic candidates using the crisis as a vehicle for broader assertions that Republicans have neglected the poor. While the candidates were careful not to attack Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's response to the crisis, all four directed sharp rebukes at the Bush administration. B1

New Strategy in Yonkers
Mayor Philip A. Amicone of Yonkers has recently held several town hall-style forums, urging residents to voice their opinions and ask questions of city officials. The meetings might be rather unremarkable in other places, but in a city where a history of nepotism fuels a sense of frustration and cynicism, the openness is a major shift in strategy and is giving some residents a reason for cautious optimism. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Elder Sister Wins Sibling Match
The atmosphere in the all-Williams tennis match bore scant resemblance to the floodlit, electrically charged ambiance in their United States Open night finals past. The fourth-round match was won by the elder sibling, Venus Williams, 7-6 (5), 6-2 against her sister Serena. D1

OBITUARIES B7

ARTS E1-9

Bright Portraits of Bleak Years
The Library of Congress will open an exhibition of color photographs taken during the Depression, culled from a little-known collection at the library and bringing alive everyday rural life from 1939 to 1943. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Mapping the Hurricane
In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, hundreds of displaced residents and their relatives have turned to the Internet for information about a home feared damaged or destroyed. Many are using Google Earth, a program available at the Google Web site that lets users zoom in on any address for an aerial view drawn from a database of satellite photos. C1

Housing Market Altered
As refugees from New Orleans poured into Baton Rouge, along with workers who expect to help with the rebuilding effort along the Gulf Coast, the local housing market has suddenly experienced the kind of frenzy that has been associated with New York, Miami or Silicon Valley in the past few years. C1

WB Shifts Programming
The WB Network is reaching out to an older audience in an effort to revitalize after a two-year slump in which the company failed to deliver a breakout hit. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Chief Justice William Rehnquist; a day on; redemption in the bayou.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Autos D10
Bridge E6
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E9
Weather B8


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); NAVIES (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); ELECTION MONITORING (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (74%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); ASSASSINATION (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (76%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (52%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EGYPT (92%); MEXICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



117 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: After Schroder-Merkel Debate, Experts Say Conservative Still Leads the Chancellor 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Germany's conservative leader, Angela Merkel, on Sunday accused Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of saddling the country with record high unemployment and a faltering economy as they met in a televised debate two weeks before the election. Most polls predict that voters will make Mrs. Merkel the first woman in German history to serve as chancellor.
 Mr. Schroder, whose relaxed demeanor during the exchange belied his dire political straits, defended his government, saying it had done its best to streamline Germany's welfare state and to overhaul its labor market. 
He also played up his foreign policy credentials, reminding viewers of his opposition to the American-led war in Iraq, which helped to propel him to a come-from-behind re-election victory in 2002.
 Mr. Schroder said his Social Democratic government had pursued ''a foreign policy that has positioned Germany abroad as a middle-sized power for peace -- which contributed, and I had to take some criticism for that, to keeping Germany out of the Iraq war, for example.
 ''The chancellor also took note of the criticism of the United States government's relief effort in New Orleans, saying that the inadequate response illustrates why he thinks the state must continue to play a strong role here.
 But Mrs. Merkel kept the focus on the chancellor's economic record, noting that the number of jobless rose to more than five million during Mr. Schroder's term, a record for the post-World War II period. Her party, the Christian Democratic Union, has made creating jobs its No.1 priority. 
 ''You can't be satisfied with the situation in this country,'' Mrs. Merkel said to Mr. Schroder in one of the debate's few confrontational moments. ''I don't see anything in your program to address this.
 ''Though Mrs. Merkel seemed more self-assured than she has been in other such encounters, she spoke with little of the ease or humor of Mr. Schroder, an accomplished television performer.
 He was widely expected to win the 90-minute debate, and polls conducted immediately afterward found that a majority of viewers believed that he had outperformed Mrs. Merkel.
 Still, Mrs. Merkel's Christian Democrats have maintained a double-digit lead over Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats since he called for elections on Sept. 18, a year earlier than planned. Her performance on Sunday was better than many analysts had predicted. As a result, they said, the debate was not likely to alter the dynamics of the race.
 ''It could have been that the challenger did not perform well enough to suggest she was up to the job,'' said Max Kaase, cq professor of political science at the International University Bremen. * no preposition as per web site ''But the important fact was that Merkel performed better than people expected. 
 ''While Mr. Schroder received higher marks over all, Mrs. Merkel was judged to have handled questions about jobs and family issues better, said Reinhard Schlinkert, *the chairman of Dimap, a polling firm in Bonn.
 ''Both candidates convinced their own supporters,'' he said. ''I don't think it changed anything.
 ''The debate, however, could play a role in determining whether the Christian Democrats achieve an absolute majority in Parliament, in a coalition with the Free Democratic Party. If that alliance falls short, they would be forced to enter a so-called grand coalition with the Social Democrats.
 That has only happened once on a national level in Germany, from 1966 to 1969. Some political analysts fear that such a government would be unstable and lead to paralysis in economic policy. In either case, Mrs. Merkel, 51, would replace Mr. Schroder, 61, as chancellor, becoming the first woman and the first eastern German to head the government.
 Mrs. Merkel said that if she became chancellor, she would be an example to other German women. But she otherwise steered clear of personal issues -- focusing relentlessly on economic policy.
 Mr. Schroder did put her on the defensive by questioning the policies of her chief economic adviser, Paul Kirchhof, an academic and former judge, who advocates replacing Germany's complex tax system with a flat tax. Mrs. Merkel described Mr. Kirchhof as having a vision.
 ''It isn't a vision,'' Mr. Schroder replied. ''It's unjust.
 ''The two also clashed over Turkey's potential entry into the European Union, which Mr. Schroder supports and Mrs. Merkel opposes. She repeated her position that Europe was not equipped to accept Turkey as a full member of the union, and should offer it a ''privileged partnership'' instead.
 The chancellor said Mrs. Merkel ''misunderstood'' the geopolitical importance of binding Turkey to Europe, to prevent it from the possibility of sliding into Islamic militancy. It was the same mistake, Mr. Schroder said, that she had made in not backing his decision to rebuff the United States on Iraq.
 If elected, Mrs. Merkel is expected to pursue a tighter relationship with the United States. But on Sunday, she seemed reluctant to get into a discussion of foreign policy or trans-Atlantic relations.
 Asked how Germany should respond to the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, she said it should provide aid, but promptly turned back to talking about domestic issues. Mr. Schroder, on the other hand, noted that President Bush had described the rescue effort as ''unacceptable.''
 ''For people in an emergency situation, we don't need a weak state, but a strong state instead,'' he said. ''If everything is privatized, we have to ask ourselves if we have done the right thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder and his opponent, Angela Merkel, met in a televised debate yesterday in Berlin, two weeks before the election. The two candidates clashed over the chancellor's handling of the economy. (Pool photo by Julia Fassbender)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); WORLD WAR II (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Elections; Election Issues; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Debating

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (93%); ANGELA MERKEL (92%) Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Angela Merkel; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



118 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: A Failure Of Leadership

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''Bush to New Orleans: 
 Drop Dead''
 Neither the death of the chief justice nor the frantic efforts of panicked White House political advisers can conceal the magnitude of the president's failure of leadership last week. The catastrophe in New Orleans billowed up like the howling winds of hell and was carried live and in color on television screens across the U.S. and around the world. 
The Big Easy had turned into the Big Hurt, and the colossal failure of George W. Bush to intervene powerfully and immediately to rescue tens of thousands of American citizens who were suffering horribly and dying in agony was there for all the world to see.
 Hospitals with deathly ill patients were left without power, with ventilators that didn't work, with floodwaters rising on the lower floors and with corpses rotting in the corridors and stairwells. People unable to breathe on their own, or with cancer or heart disease or kidney failure, slipped into comas and sank into their final sleep in front of helpless doctors and relatives. These were Americans in desperate trouble.
 The president didn't seem to notice.
 Death and the stink of decay were all over the city. Corpses were propped up in wheelchairs and on lawn furniture, or left to decompose on sunbaked sidewalks. Some floated by in water fouled by human feces.
 Degenerates roamed the city, shooting at rescue workers, beating and robbing distraught residents and tourists, raping women and girls. The president of the richest, most powerful country in the history of the world didn't seem to notice.
 Viewers could watch diabetics go into insulin shock on national television, and you could see babies with the pale, vacant look of hunger that we're more used to seeing in dispatches from the third world. You could see their mothers, dirty and hungry themselves, weeping.
 Old, critically ill people were left to soil themselves and in some cases die like stray animals on the floor of an airport triage center. For days the president of the United States didn't seem to notice.
 He would have noticed if the majority of these stricken folks had been white and prosperous. But they weren't. Most were black and poor, and thus, to the George W. Bush administration, still invisible.
 After days of withering criticism from white and black Americans, from conservatives as well as liberals, from Republicans and Democrats, the president finally felt compelled to act, however feebly. (The chorus of criticism from nearly all quarters demanding that the president do something tells me that the nation as a whole is so much better than this administration.)
 Mr. Bush flew south on Friday and proved (as if more proof were needed) that he didn't get it. Instead of urgently focusing on the people who were stranded, hungry, sick and dying, he engaged in small talk, reminiscing at one point about the days when he used to party in New Orleans, and mentioning that Trent Lott had lost one of his houses but that it would be replaced with ''a fantastic house -- and I'm looking forward to sitting on the porch.''
 Mr. Bush's performance last week will rank as one of the worst ever by a president during a dire national emergency. What we witnessed, as clearly as the overwhelming agony of the city of New Orleans, was the dangerous incompetence and the staggering indifference to human suffering of the president and his administration.
 And it is this incompetence and indifference to suffering (yes, the carnage continues to mount in Iraq) that makes it so hard to be optimistic about the prospects for the United States over the next few years. At a time when effective, innovative leadership is desperately needed to cope with matters of war and peace, terrorism and domestic security, the economic imperatives of globalization and the rising competition for oil, the United States is being led by a man who seems oblivious to the reality of his awesome responsibilities.
 Like a boy being prepped for a second crack at a failed exam, Mr. Bush has been meeting with his handlers to see what steps can be taken to minimize the political fallout from this latest demonstration of his ineptitude. But this is not about politics. It's about competence. And when the president is so obviously clueless about matters so obviously important, it means that the rest of us, like the people left stranded in New Orleans, are in deep, deep trouble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); CANCER (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); DIABETES (74%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



119 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Fox Says U.S. Shares Blame For Problems Along Border

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox responded over the weekend to criticism from American authorities about a recent surge in violence and illegal immigration along the border, saying that the United States shares responsibility for the problems and should work harder with Mexico to fix them.
 Mr. Fox said he rejected ''forcefully'' the statements by the Bush administration and governors of border states, contending that they had unfairly depicted Mexico as a safe haven for organized crime, though his government has arrested more leading drug traffickers and dismantled more cartels than any of its predecessors. He also said Mexican immigrants had been portrayed unfairly as potential terrorists when they had in fact become a pillar of the American economy. 
 In an interview aboard the presidential airplane on Saturday, Mr. Fox acknowledged that his government had a long way to go to make the border secure. But he said the United States should stop casting blame for problems created by both countries.
 He also said the United States should not allow concerns about border security to derail efforts to adopt new measures to allow millions of additional Mexicans to become guest workers in the United States.
 ''Security is a shared responsibility,'' President Fox said. Then, referring to the United States, he said, ''I don't understand that now they only cast blame and accusations, and they do not collaborate or cooperate so that together we can resolve this problem.'' 
 On the changes in immigration policy, he said: ''There is will on the part of President Bush, according to what he has expressed publicly, and what he has expressed in conversations with us. So, I trust that in the coming weeks and months, we will succeed finally in arriving at a positive resolution for the benefit of both countries.''
 More pressing realities, however, may once again stand in the way. Work on immigration policy was first postponed four years ago, after the Sept. 11 attacks. Then it was put off for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. Now, it may be set aside again as the United States struggles to recover from Hurricane Katrina.
 But Mr. Fox has little time left; he is entering his last year in office.
 His comments were aimed at what many here perceive as a troubling shift in United States attitudes and diplomatic policy toward Mexico. 
 In recent weeks, the United States has openly berated Mexico for failing to stop a wave of drug-related violence that has taken close to 1,000 lives along the 2,000-mile border. The Bush administration has issued numerous travel advisories and temporarily closed its consulate in the city of Nuevo Laredo, which has turned into a murder capital as drug traffickers fight for control of lucrative routes into Texas.
 Last month, the governors of New Mexico and Arizona declared states of emergency, saying they needed federal help to fend off a flood of undocumented migrants.
 Neither Mr. Fox nor his aides denied the problems. But the authorities here said that the responses from the United States did not reflect the complexities of the problems, nor did they acknowledge that Mexico had undertaken significant efforts to address them.
 ''This self-sustained blaming someone else, is it going to help anything?'' said a high-level intelligence official who asked not to be named because of the diplomatic sensitivities involved. ''If everyone in the United States keeps profiting politically from this very difficult situation, then we are not going to be able to make things better.'' He added, ''We are trying to do our job, even with our limited resources.''
 Mr. Fox said trade and other day-to-day interactions between the countries had not been affected by the political tensions, and he said he trusted that President Bush would not allow concerns over security to stall efforts to pass changes in immigration requirements.
 ''Let there be no doubt, that we are going to win this battle,'' he said, referring to his government's efforts in Nuevo Laredo. ''So it cannot be used as a pretext to provoke a distancing in relations between the United States and Mexico.''
 He said his country shared the pain of the hurricane. An estimated 140,000 Mexicans were affected, he said, and 70,000 are unaccounted for. But now, he said, the contributions of Mexican workers could be more important than ever.
 ''The reconstruction of that city and of that region is going to require a lot of labor,'' Mr. Fox said of New Orleans, Mississippi and Alabama. ''And if there is anything Mexicans are good at, it is construction.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); REFUGEES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); HURRICANES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); ARRESTS (71%); CARTELS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; United States International Relations; Labor

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada; Ginger Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (94%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



120 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; COURT IN TRANSITION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 6361 words

PERSON: William H. Rehnquist

HEADLINE: William H. Rehnquist, Architect of Conservative Court, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
William H. Rehnquist, who died Saturday at the age of 80, almost a year after learning he had thyroid cancer, helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 years as chief justice of the United States.
 Chief Justice's Rehnquist's death came six weeks after he refuted rumors that he would soon retire by announcing that he intended to serve as long as his health permitted. At the time of the announcement, on July 14, photographers had been camped out for weeks outside his house in Arlington, Va.
Following his diagnosis of cancer last October, the chief justice was treated with chemotherapy and radiation and missed months of the court's arguments. But he returned to the bench in March and participated actively in the court's business, despite breathing and speaking through a hole that surgeons had cut in his throat. 
 Including 14 years as an associate justice, Chief Justice Rehnquist's tenure on the court was not only one of the longest in the institution's history but also one of the most consequential. With a steady hand, a focus and commitment that never wavered, and the muscular use of the power of judicial review, he managed to translate many of his long-held views into binding national precedent. 
 Chief among those views was an enhanced role for the states within the federal system, which the court accomplished under his leadership by overturning dozens of federal laws that sought to project federal authority into what the Supreme Court majority viewed as the domain of the states.
 In the zero-sum game of the tripartite separation of powers, the Supreme Court's own power grew correspondingly as the justices circumscribed the power of Congress. The court's institutional enhancement was a paradox of Chief Justice Rehnquist's tenure, because another goal that he accomplished in large measure was to shrink the role of the federal courts by taking them out of the business of running prisons, school systems and other institutions of government.
 The Rehnquist years included one historic episode of galvanizing drama and deep divisiveness, the decision in Bush v. Gore that decided the 2000 presidential election by ending the recount in Florida and handing a wafer-thin victory to George W. Bush. Though Chief Justice Rehnquist voted with the 5-to-4 majority, his central role in the case was largely behind the scenes and the controlling opinion did not carry his name.
 While Chief Justice Rehnquist was a self-confident and not unduly modest man, that near-invisibility was itself quite characteristic and led many people to assume incorrectly that one of his flashier colleagues, Justice Antonin Scalia, had played the stage manager's role in the events that led to the final decision in Bush v. Gore.
 ''Rehnquist is the opposite of Scalia,'' Professor Robert C. Post of the Yale Law School said in an interview. ''Rehnquist doesn't particularly want to be noticed. He's not interested in getting credit. He's just interested in getting the job done.''
 Chief Justice Rehnquist also had the unusual experience of presiding over a presidential impeachment trial, a role ordained for the chief justice by the Constitution. During the five weeks in early 1999 that it took the Senate to try and acquit President Bill Clinton on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice, the chief justice was an unfamiliar presence in the Senate chamber, occasionally moving the proceedings along but having little of substance to do. ''I did nothing in particular and I did it very well,'' he told a television interviewer, Charlie Rose, two years later, borrowing a line from one of his favorite Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, ''Iolanthe.''
 ''Iolanthe'' also inspired Chief Justice Rehnquist to modify his basic black judicial robe in 1995 by adding four gold stripes to each sleeve, copying the costume worn by the Lord Chancellor in a local production of the operetta. Since the chief justice had never paid any noticeable attention to his attire, the new adornment was startling. Where some saw self-aggrandizement, others saw the sartorial manifestation of a wry sense of humor.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist was an efficient administrator who had the affection and respect of even those colleagues who disagreed with him most vigorously. On Jan. 7, 2002, the 30th anniversary of Mr. Rehnquist's swearing-in as a justice, Justice John Paul Stevens, the senior associate justice and a liberal who was the furthest removed from the chief justice ideologically, read a statement from the bench congratulating him for reaching the milestone. 
 ''On behalf of all your colleagues,'' Justice Stevens said, ''I want to express our sincere appreciation for the exemplary way in which you have performed the special responsibilities of your high office, with particular emphasis on the efficiency, good humor and absolute impartiality that you have consistently displayed when presiding at our conferences.''
 Chief Justice Rehnquist was a lucky man, in that the turn of the political wheel sent new justices to the court and provided him with sufficient allies, if barely so, for his most cherished causes. His unusually long tenure also provided the gift of time.
 But his ultimate success was also a testament to his tenacity and skill. He combined an unfaltering sense of mission with high intelligence, patience, the strategic prowess of a serious poker player, which he was, and the attention to detail of an art lover and serious amateur painter, which he also was. He had held many of his views since early adulthood, and he took the long view: with seeming nonchalance, he would plant a phrase in an opinion in the expectation that it would take root, blossom and turn out to be even more useful in some future case. Time proved him right, not always, but often enough.

A Nixon Appointee
 William H. Rehnquist was 47 years old and far to the right of the judicial mainstream when President Richard M. Nixon named him to the Supreme Court as an associate justice in 1971. A Goldwater Republican, he was then an assistant attorney general in the Nixon Justice Department. He was a polarizing figure, the symbol of the president's determination to dismantle the liberal legacy of the Warren Court.
 Two and a half years into the chief justiceship of Warren E. Burger, that goal appeared far distant, given the continued service of liberal titans like Justices William O. Douglas, William J. Brennan Jr. and Thurgood Marshall. In his first decade on the court, until he gained allies through the three appointments made by President Ronald Reagan, Justice Rehnquist was frequently a lone dissenter, his language pithy but his arguments seemingly futile.
 ''The existence of the death penalty in this country is virtually an illusion,'' he declared in a typical dissent in 1981, complaining that ''virtually nothing happens except endlessly drawn-out legal proceedings.'' No other member of the court joined him. 
 But eventually not only a majority of the court but Congress as well -- due in part to Chief Justice Rehnquist's advocacy from his platform as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States, the judiciary's policy-making arm -- agreed that there were too many procedural obstacles blocking states from carrying out the death penalty. Through the interaction of legislation and Supreme Court decisions, the pace of executions quickened sharply through the 1990's.
 In general, there was little in those early years to indicate the success that lay ahead. After Reagan named him, in 1986, the 16th chief justice of the United States, succeeding Burger, he eventually presided over a working, if narrow, conservative majority that turned his onetime dissents into majority opinions and gave him the power to shape the law according to views he had held as a young lawyer and even as a student before that.
 When he took his seat as an associate justice on Jan. 7, 1972, the dominant theme in discussions about the Supreme Court was law and order. Nixon was a harsh critic of the criminal procedure decisions of the Warren Court and correctly discerned that he would have an ally in Assistant Attorney General Rehnquist. During the Rehnquist years, the court enhanced the police's ability to conduct searches and to have the search results introduced at trial; expanded police officers' immunity from lawsuits for constitutional violations; and cut back sharply on the role of the federal courts in reviewing state-court criminal convictions.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist defied the expectations of many, however, in voting in June 2000 to reaffirm one of the Warren Court's most famous and disputed rulings, Miranda v. Arizona, which required the police, as a protection against coerced confessions, to advise suspects of their right to counsel and to remain silent. 
 The Miranda warnings ''have become part of our national culture'' and should be retained, the chief justice wrote for the court in a 7-to-2 decision, Dickerson v. United States.
 His liberal critics regarded the Dickerson case as something of a hollow victory, arguing that the Miranda rule had lost a good deal of its original force through later decisions that allowed evidence obtained in violation of Miranda to be used for various law enforcement purposes. His position in the case reflected not any newfound appreciation for the original Miranda ruling, but rather the conclusion that Congress had overstepped its bounds by trying to overturn through legislation a decision the Supreme Court based on its interpretation of the Constitution.
 Other issues came to the fore as the years went by, displacing criminal law as the main focus of debate on the court and in society. In addition to the federalism revolution that began in the early 1990's and picked up speed throughout the next decade, the court under Chief Justice Rehnquist required more government accommodation of religion; sharply limited the discretion of government agencies to take race into account in setting public policy; and interpreted the Constitution as creating a government of limited, defined powers rather than as a charter of broad, unenumerated rights. 
 The court took a limited view of the guarantee of due process of law, rejecting in one particularly high-profile case a due process challenge to state laws that prohibit physician-assisted suicide. By taking an expansive view of the rights of white voters, the court dismantled a number of Congressional districts drawn by Southern legislatures for the purpose of sending black representatives to Congress. Under what one admirer, Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III, called the ''unitary nondiscrimination principle,'' Chief Justice Rehnquist and the majority he led on many important equal protection cases held the view that counting by race, for whatever purpose, was constitutionally suspect.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist lost some battles, as well, on a court that remained closely divided on most fundamental issues. One of the only two dissenters, with Justice Byron R. White, from the 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized a constitutional right to abortion, he fell short by one vote in Planned Parenthood v. Casey in 1992 of seeing that decision overruled. 
 And in a 1989 case, Texas v. Johnson, that found flag-burning to be a form of political expression protected by the First Amendment, he was reduced to the role of impassioned dissenter. Quoting the famous lines ''Shoot if you must, this old gray head, but spare your country's flag,'' from the Civil War poem, ''Barbara Frietchie,'' he said the flag was ''the visible symbol embodying our nation'' and ''not simply another 'idea' or 'point of view' competing in the marketplace of ideas.''
 He remained a lightning rod whose influence was deplored by liberal academics and commentators. In a 2003 critique of the Rehnquist Court, ''Overruling Democracy'' (Routledge), Professor Jamin B. Raskin of the American University Law School wrote that the chief justice's legacy was ''a thick jurisprudence hostile to popular democracy and protective of race privilege and corporate power.'' But his tenure had many admirers. Kenneth W. Starr, the former solicitor general, praised the Rehnquist years in his book on the court, ''First Among Equals'' (Warner Books, 2002) for returning to ''lawyerly rigor'' and rejecting the ''policy-making'' tendencies of the court under Chief Justices Earl Warren and Burger.
 Through it all, through two testy confirmation hearings and decades as the highly visible embodiment of the court's counterrevolution, William Rehnquist remained a nearly imperturbable figure who strolled the court's grounds, unrecognized, in a jaunty straw boater and padded its halls in rubber-soled Hush Puppies, Size 14D. 
 At 6 feet 3 inches and often stooped because of back pain, he was rather ungainly. A flat Midwestern accent revealed his Wisconsin childhood, though he left the Midwest for military service in World War II at the age of 19 and never returned there to live. His adopted home state was Arizona.
 He loved amateur theatricals, led his law clerks in sing-alongs and would bet with his fellow justices over anything, including the depth of snow on the marble plaza outside the court. He entered a contest in The Washington Post, which asked readers to figure out what make of car was referred to by the license plate 1 DIV 0. ''I believe it refers to an Infiniti, since when you divide 0 into 1, the result is infinity,'' he wrote in his winning answer. 

Judge and Author
 He wrote books on Supreme Court history as well as an unpublished murder mystery set in the Justice Department. Asked by Brian Lamb of C-Span, in a 1998 interview, why he liked to write books, he replied: ''It's very nice to be able to write something you don't have to get four other people to agree with before it can become authoritative.'' 
 One of the most notable aspects of Chief Justice Rehnquist's career was his consistency. Five years into his tenure on the court, the Harvard Law Review published a ''preliminary'' appraisal by Professor David L. Shapiro. Professor Shapiro identified three basic elements of the Rehnquist judicial philosophy: conflicts between the individual and the government should be resolved against the individual; conflicts between state and federal authority should be resolved in favor of the states; and questions of the exercise of federal jurisdiction should be resolved against such exercise. The 1976 article was often cited in later years because it proved to be such a reliable road map to the Rehnquist philosophy.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist, who had masters degrees in political science from both Stanford and Harvard, defined himself in political-science terms as a pluralist, one who believed there should be numerous sources of power within the government. ''I'm a strong believer in pluralism,'' he told an interviewer in 1985. ''Don't concentrate all the power in one place.''
 This outlook translated into a limited view of the role of the federal courts, because the courts were simply one institution among others, with no claim to greater wisdom or moral authority. This view was in sharp contrast to the judicial liberalism that was dominant when Chief Justice Rehnquist came of age as a young lawyer, when the federal courts were thought to have -- or behaved as if they had -- an almost oracular ability to discern the hidden meaning of the Constitution in light of the public good.
 His belief in a limited judicial role was further bolstered by a long-held skepticism about whether any theory of the common good was inherently preferable to any other. In a 1976 article, ''The Notion of a Living Constitution,'' published in the University of Texas Law Review, he wrote: ''There is no conceivable way in which I can logically demonstrate to you that the judgments of my conscience are superior to the judgments of your conscience, and vice versa. Many of us necessarily feel strongly and deeply about our own moral judgments, but they remain only personal moral judgments until in some way given the sanction of law.''
 Analyzing this passage in a 1994 article in the Rutgers Law Journal, Professor Thomas W. Merrill of Columbia Law School said the point was that ''the only way to choose between moral judgments in a democratic society is to take a vote, and adhere to the judgment endorsed by a majority.''
 In later life, Chief Justice Rehnquist cheerfully agreed that he had adhered to the same views over the decades and appeared bemused by the response this sometimes evoked in others. To a questioner in 1994 who asked him whether his thinking on any major legal question had evolved over time, the Chief Justice cocked an eyebrow and said in a wry tone: ''Do you mean, have I shown a capacity for growth?''
 He was eventually able to transform long-held views into the law of the land. In 1952, after his graduation from Stanford Law School, he took a coveted job as a law clerk to a Supreme Court justice, Robert H. Jackson. In one memo to the justice about a pending criminal case, the young clerk argued that the court should abandon its rule calling for automatic reversal of a conviction if a confession had been coerced. The evidence in the appeal showed that the three defendants were ''guilty as sin,'' and the fact that their confessions might have been coerced should be disregarded as ''harmless error,'' he said.
 The court did not take the law clerk's advice, but in 1991 Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote the opinion for the court in Arizona v. Fulminante, holding for the first time that coerced confessions could be admitted as ''harmless error'' if other evidence was sufficient to establish guilt.
 He wrote opinions in almost every area of the law. Among his most important opinions were those that set limits on the meaning of the Constitution's due process guarantee, declining to expand the boundaries of due process in a way that would create new rights or encroach on state power. These decisions marked an important shift by the court away from a period of great expansion of the guarantee.
 For example, his majority opinion in a 1976 case, Paul v. Davis, held that a man who had been falsely identified as a convicted shoplifter in a flier circulated by the Louisville, Ky., police department could not sue the police chief for violating the 14th amendment's guarantee of due process of law. The man might well have a valid case for defamation in the Kentucky state courts, Justice Rehnquist wrote, but to permit him to sue under the Constitution in federal court ''would make of the 14th Amendment a font of tort law to be superimposed upon whatever systems may already be administered by the states.''
 In similar fashion, a 1989 majority opinion, DeShaney v. Winnebago County, rejected the argument that state-employed social workers deprived a young boy of his right to due process by leaving him in the care of an abusive father, who then beat him into an irreversible coma. The purpose of the due process guarantee, Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote, ''was to protect the people from the state, not to ensure that the state protected them from each other.'' He added: ''The Framers were content to leave the extent of governmental obligation in the latter area to the democratic political processes.''
 A 1979 majority opinion, Bell v. Wolfish, held that it did not violate the Constitution for prison officials to place two prisoners in a cell designed for one. There is not ''some sort of one-man, one-cell principle lurking in the due process clause,'' Justice Rehnquist wrote.

A Shift in Power
 His majority opinions could be cryptic, sometimes only hinting at the legal reasoning, let alone the broader context or implications of the ruling. He was a fast and prolific writer, whose efforts to spur his colleagues to similar levels of speed and productivity were often frustrated. 
 He staked his ground early in the debate over the boundary between state and federal authority. His majority opinion in a 1976 case, National League of Cities v. Usery, invalidated the application of federal minimum wage and hour requirements to employees of state and local governments. Though a narrow majority overturned that decision, over Justice Rehnquist's dissent, nine years later in Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority, the 1976 opinion had the important effect of reviving interest in the 10th Amendment. That amendment, previously one of the most obscure provisions of the Bill of Rights, reserves to the states or ''to the people'' any powers not explicitly given elsewhere in the Constitution to the federal government. 
 The 1976 decision put federal regulatory authority on the defensive as it had not been for a generation. Chief Justice Rehnquist's majority opinion in United States v. Lopez in 1995 raised the stakes in the debate over federal authority even higher. The decision declared unconstitutional a law, the Gun Free School Zones Act of 1990, that made it a federal crime to carry a gun within 1,000 feet of a school. 
 His focus in the Lopez decision was on a different constitutional provision, the Commerce Clause, for more than half a century the source of Congress's nearly unquestioned authority to oversee national affairs.
 He said that because the possession of guns near schools ''has nothing to do with 'commerce' or any sort of economic enterprise, however broadly one might define those terms,'' Congress had lacked authority to pass the law under its constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce. The decision was the first time since the New Deal that the court had invalidated an exercise of Congress's commerce authority. The four dissenters objected, arguing both that guns moved in interstate commerce and that gun-related crime contributed to a national economic problem, but the chief justice's five-member majority insisted that Congress had gone too far. 
 The Lopez case was followed by a string of decisions expanding state immunity from federal regulation and constricting the authority of Congress. Nearly all were decided by 5-to-4 votes. Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas were his reliable allies in the Rehnquist Court's federalism revolution.
 That revolution appeared to stall during the last term, when the court voted 6 to 3, over the chief justice's dissent, to reassert federal authority by upholding the power of Congress to prohibit the use of marijuana for medical purposes, even in the 11 states that permit it.
 As chief justice, he was outspoken in his impatience with Supreme Court precedents with which he disagreed. A 1991 majority opinion, Payne v. Tennessee, was essentially a manifesto for overruling precedents. In that case, the court overruled two earlier decisions that had barred prosecutors in death penalty cases from introducing evidence about the effect of the crime on the victim's family and community. 
 In his opinion, Chief Justice Rehnquist described general categories of precedents most suitable for overruling: constitutional cases, which unlike cases interpreting statutes cannot be corrected by Congress if they are in error; cases involving rules of evidence or procedural rights, in which people have no vested economic interest; and cases that have been decided ''by the narrowest of margins, over spirited dissents challenging the basic underpinnings of those decisions.''

Spirited in Dissent
 Many of his own dissents over the years could easily be described as spirited, though he toned down his rhetoric after he became chief justice. The fact that no one else agreed with him was no deterrent to publishing a strong dissent. In fact, when he was nominated for chief justice, he was the court's most frequent lone dissenter, and some senators wondered aloud whether he could work effectively with his colleagues. Those concerns soon proved groundless.
 He was the only dissenter in a high-profile 1983 case, Bob Jones University v. United States, in which the court upheld the refusal of the Internal Revenue Service to grant tax-exempt status to a private university with racially discriminatory policies for student behavior -- a ban on interracial dating or marriage. In dissent, Justice Rehnquist argued that while ''I have no disagreement with the court's finding that there is a strong national policy in this country opposed to racial discrimination,'' Congress had not given the I.R.S. authority to deny tax-exempt status on that basis.
 In a 1985 religion case, Wallace v. Jaffree, he dissented from the court's decision to strike down an Alabama law that provided a daily moment for silent prayer in the public schools. He said the court's modern precedents on religion were wrong, based on what he said was a misguided belief that the Constitution's framers meant to erect a ''wall of separation'' between church and state. All the framers had intended, he said, was to prohibit the establishment of a national religion and to forbid preferential treatment of one denomination over another, not to make the government neutral ''between religion and irreligion'' or to prevent government aid to religion on a nondiscriminatory basis.
 In Chief Justice Rehnquist's entire tenure on the court, there was no decision more disputed than Bush v. Gore, the 5-to-4 ruling that ended the 2000 presidential election as well as the bizarre 36-day post-election period of lawsuits and recounts.
 The initial question for the Supreme Court was whether to get involved at all in the dispute between the two candidates, Vice President Al Gore and Mr. Bush, then the governor of Texas, over the inconclusive outcome of the election in Florida, where it was clear that the state's 25 electoral votes would determine the result of the election despite Mr. Gore's majority in the nationwide popular vote. Mr. Bush held an evanescent lead in Florida, ahead by fewer than 2,000 votes on election night out of nearly 6 million cast and only 327 after an initial machine recount, a lead that Mr. Gore threatened to erase in a recount ordered by the Florida Supreme Court.
 As November became December with no official winner, it appeared that election night would never end. But the events that led to the final decision were extraordinarily compressed. On Dec. 9, the day after the Florida Supreme Court ordered a new recount, the chief justice and Justices Scalia, O'Connor, Kennedy and Thomas voted to issue a stay, freezing the recount that had just begun. They also accepted the Bush appeal and scheduled argument for Dec. 11. Through the night after the argument and the long day that followed, the country waited for the result. At 10 p.m. on Dec. 12, the court issued its ruling. An unsigned opinion by the same five justices held that a lack of uniform standards for counting ballots from county to county meant that the recount would violate the constitutional guarantee of equal protection. There was no time to fix the problem, the majority held, so there could be no further counting.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote a concurring opinion, which Justices Scalia and Thomas also signed, arguing that the Florida Supreme Court had usurped the State Legislature's authority, under the Constitution and a federal statute, to determine the rules for conducting elections.
 The decision was tremendously controversial. Its defenders maintained that whatever the analytical deficiencies of the majority opinion, the court's intervention had the benefit of sparing the country further uncertainty that was on the verge of turning into a real crisis. The court's critics called the decision an activist and basically partisan act; it was unseemly, they said, for justices to be selecting the president who foreseeably would be in the position to choose their own successors. Whatever the merits of this debate, predictions that the Supreme Court would plummet in the public's esteem proved unfounded, and the country, if not the legal academy that produced a shelf of books on the episode, soon moved on.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist often said that he had been strongly influenced in his world view by a book he read as a young man, ''The Road to Serfdom,'' by Friedrich Hayek, the Austrian-born, Nobel Prize-winning economist. A best seller after its publication in 1944, the book warned of the dangers of collectivism and big government, and predicted that socialism, the ''road to serfdom'' of the title, would eventually collapse. 
 But the chief justice's political opinions were by many accounts formed years earlier, in the secure, middle-class household where he grew up with a younger sister, Jean, in Shorewood, Wis., a suburb of Milwaukee. William Hubbs Rehnquist was born in Milwaukee on Oct. 1, 1924. His paternal grandparents had immigrated from Sweden to the Chicago area. His father, William Benjamin Rehnquist, worked in the paper business as a wholesale broker to the graphic arts industry. His mother, Margery Peck Rehnquist, was fluent in several languages and worked part time as a translator for local companies.
 His parents were conservative Republicans. President Herbert Hoover was admired in the household. Franklin D. Roosevelt distinctly was not. Young Bill Rehnquist's classmates from those days later told interviewers that his political conservatism had been distinctive. He did well in high school, graduating in 1942 with a scholarship to Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio. But he left after a few months to enlist in the Army Air Corps. He did not see combat during World War II. He spent time in North Africa as a weather observer and was discharged in 1946 with the rank of sergeant.
 He had been sufficiently impressed with the North African climate to decide that he did not want to return to the Midwest. He attended Stanford University on the G.I. Bill, graduating in 1948 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa with both a bachelor's and a master's degree in political science. He went to Harvard to continue his graduate studies but complained to friends about ''Harvard liberalism.'' 
 On something of a whim, he took the law school aptitude test and did extremely well. Leaving Harvard with a second master's degree, he entered law school at Stanford on a scholarship and graduated first in his class in 1952 with his Supreme Court clerkship in hand. The No. 3 class ranking was held by a young woman from Arizona named Sandra Day, later to be his Supreme Court colleague Sandra Day O'Connor.
 In his 1987 book ''The Supreme Court: How It Was, How It Is,'' the chief justice described driving to Washington, where he had been only once before, in his 1941 Studebaker to start his 18-month clerkship. The book is an account of some of the court's famous cases and aside from some anecdotal material is not a personal memoir. But it offers a vivid depiction of the combination of enthusiasm and awkwardness with which the young lawyer began the next phase of his life. He described his curiosity about what his working hours would be but his reluctance to ask even his fellow law clerk, who had already been there for some months, ''because it somehow seemed to indicate less than complete devotion to the job.''

The Brown Case
 Justice Jackson, who served on the court from 1941 until his death in 1954, had been a close adviser to Roosevelt, serving as solicitor general and attorney general. During his Supreme Court tenure, Jackson also served as the chief United States prosecutor at the Nuremberg war crimes trials in 1945 and 1946.
 The young law clerk admired his justice, though there was much on which they disagreed. A memorandum that the clerk wrote for Jackson in 1952 on the school desegregation cases then before the court, including Brown v. Board of Education, came back to haunt him at both his own Supreme Court confirmation hearings. 
 Entitled ''A Random Thought on the Segregation Cases,'' the memorandum argued that the attack on school segregation should be rejected and that the separate-but-equal doctrine the court had endorsed in the notorious Plessy v. Ferguson decision of 1896 ''was right and should be reaffirmed.'' 
 ''I realize that it is an unpopular and unhumanitarian position, for which I have been excoriated by my 'liberal' colleagues,'' Mr. Rehnquist wrote to Jackson. He also wrote that ''in the long run it is the majority who will determine what the constitutional rights of the minority are.''
 The memo, which remained in Jackson's files, caused a furor when it surfaced during Mr. Rehnquist's 1971 confirmation hearing. Both then and during his 1986 hearing on his nomination for chief justice, he said that the memo had not expressed his personal view but had been drafted at Jackson's request as a summary of the justice's views.
 ''I fully support the legal reasoning and the rightness from the standpoint of fundamental fairness of the Brown decision,'' Mr. Rehnquist said at his 1971 hearing.
 In 1953, he married Natalie Cornell, a fellow Stanford graduate who was then working in Washington for the Central Intelligence Agency. They had a son, James, and two daughters, Janet and Nancy. It was a strong marriage and Mrs. Rehnquist, who was known as Nan, was very popular at the court. She died in 1991 after a long battle with cancer.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist is survived by three children, Janet Rehnquist of Arlington; James C., of Sharon, Mass.; and Nancy Spears of Middlebury, Vt.; his sister, Jean Laurin of Grand Rapids, Mich.; and nine grandchildren.
 After his clerkship ended, the Rehnquists chose Phoenix as a place to settle. He joined a law firm there and became active in Republican politics and in civic affairs. In a 1957 speech to a local bar association, he criticized liberal justices on the Warren Court for ''making the Constitution say what they wanted it to say.'' He also spoke publicly against a proposed local law barring racial discrimination in public accommodations and against an integration plan for the Phoenix public schools. He campaigned in 1964 for the conservative Republican presidential nominee, Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona. 
 He became friendly with Richard G. Kleindienst, a Phoenix lawyer who helped run Nixon's successful presidential campaign in 1968. When Mr. Kleindienst went to Washington as deputy attorney general, he recommended Mr. Rehnquist for a job. As assistant attorney general for the Office of Legal Counsel, Mr. Rehnquist was suddenly in a high-profile position, testifying often before Congress to give the Nixon administration's views on obscenity, wiretapping, national security and other sensitive subjects. 
 He thrived in the Justice Department, entranced by the sense of immediacy and by wrestling with the great issues of the day. Years later, as chief justice, he described his three years there with evident nostalgia as the high point of his professional life.
 He had very little contact with the president himself. In one of the Watergate tapes, Nixon was recorded as referring to ''that group of clowns'' at the Justice Department, ''Renchburg and that group.'' According to an account by John W. Dean, Nixon's White House counsel, Nixon stopped by briefly at a meeting Mr. Rehnquist was running and later summoned his counsel to ask: ''John, who the hell is that clown?''
 ''I beg your pardon?'' Mr. Dean replied.
 ''The guy dressed like a clown, who's running the meeting,'' the president said in an evident reference to Mr. Rehnquist's pink shirt and clashing psychedelic necktie.
 Nonetheless, Nixon nominated him in October 1971 to a Supreme Court vacancy left by the retirement of Justice John M. Harlan.
 The nomination of Mr. Rehnquist as well as the simultaneous nomination of Lewis F. Powell Jr., a former president of the American Bar Association, to succeed Justice Hugo L. Black were last-minute affairs. The American Bar Association indicated that it would not approve the original choices for the two vacancies and the administration wanted to avoid a protracted struggle. 
 While Mr. Powell was easily confirmed, the confirmation process for Mr. Rehnquist was much more acrimonious. His hearing lasted five days. Liberal senators as well as civil rights leaders denounced him as a right-wing extremist. The final vote was 68 to 26, and Mr. Rehnquist took his seat as the 100th justice on Jan. 7, 1972.
 His confirmation hearing to become chief justice nearly 15 years later was something of a rerun. Reagan nominated him on June 17, 1986, to succeed Burger, who had retired from the court to head the national commission in charge of the bicentennial celebration of the Constitution. Questions at the Rehnquist confirmation hearing covered his political activities in Arizona, the advice he gave the Nixon administration, and a racially restrictive -- and legally unenforceable -- covenant on the deed to his Vermont vacation house. 
 The Judiciary Committee also reviewed his medical record, which included the use for nine years of increasing doses of a prescribed hypnotic drug, Placidyl, to help him sleep while suffering from severe back pain. He had been hospitalized for 10 days in late 1981 to be weaned off the drug, which had caused side effects like slurred speech.
 Few minds were changed during the prolonged debate, and the Republican-controlled Senate confirmed him as chief justice by a vote of 65 to 33 on Sept. 17, 1986. At the same time, Antonin Scalia was confirmed by a vote of 98 to 0 to Justice Rehnquist's vacant seat. The two men were sworn in on Sept. 26.
 While the new chief justice found the confirmation process extremely disagreeable, he kept his composure and even his wry sense of humor. At one point, a Republican senator, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, commended him for his recent dissent in Wallace v. Jaffree, the case on silent prayer in the Alabama public schools. Senator Hatch observed that the Senate Judiciary Committee had voted for a constitutional amendment to allow such prayer. ''What you have been labeled extreme for, is something a majority of this committee supports,'' he said.
 Justice Rehnquist smiled and shrugged. ''We're all extremists together,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Young Justice On His Own -- Early on, William H. Rehnquist was often the lone voice of dissent amid his more liberal colleagues. In 1976, five years after he joined, the court consisted of, back row, from left: Justice Rehnquist, Harry A. Blackmun, Lewis F. Powell Jr. and John Paul Stevens
front row: Byron R. White, William J. Brennan Jr., Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, Potter Stewart and Thurgood Marshall. Justice Rehnquist would succeed Burger as chief justice in 1986 (Photo by Associated Press)
Nixon with his two nominees to the Supreme Court in 1971: Mr. Rehnquist, right, and Lewis F. Powell Jr. (Photo by Associated Press)
Reagan in 1986 with the new chief justice, right, and Antonin Scalia, who took over the vacant associate justice seat. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A16)
A Senior Jurist In a Leading Role -- By his final term, Chief Justice Rehnquist was leading a narrow conservative majority on the court. This year, his court consisted of, back row, from left: Ruth Bader Ginsburg, David H. Souter, Clarence Thomas and Stephen G. Breyer
front row, from left: Antonin Scalia, John Paul Stevens, the chief justice, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony M. Kennedy. Justice O'Connor announced her retirement this summer. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
The chief justice being sworn in by Senator Strom Thurmond, left, for the Clinton impeachment. ''I did nothing in particular and I did it very well,'' he said of his trial role. (Photo by United States Senate)(pg. A17)
 Chief Justice Rehnquist, ill with thyroid cancer, administered the oath of office to President Bush on Jan. 20. (Photo by Wally Hines/Associated Press)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CANCER (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DEATHS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); THYROID CANCER (78%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (78%); RADIOLOGY (73%); HISTORY (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%) Biographical Information; Deaths (Obituaries)

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US) 

ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); STEPHEN BREYER (73%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (73%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); AL GORE (57%) William H (Chief Justice) Rehnquist; Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005



121 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Mamiraua Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Is This the Gaze of an Endangered Species or an Evil Croc?

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MAMIRAUA, Brazil 

 BODY:
As dusk falls, the waters here gradually come alive. One after another, caimans begin to stick their armored heads above the surface, and before long this isolated, tree-lined channel feeding the Amazon is teeming with crocodilians as large as 15 feet long. Their thrashing, splashing and grunting reverberates all through the night.
 Just a generation ago the caiman, a cousin of the American alligator, was driven so near extinction by the demand for its skin and meat that the government banned hunting it. But efforts to protect the black and spectacled caiman (pronounced KAY-men) have proved so successful that the population has exploded and the beast has now become a pest and, according to some, a threat. 
 Peasants along the rivers complain that caimans devour their livestock, and they are clamoring for the right to resume hunting. Even small children are occasionally attacked at the river's edge, leading local newspapers and radio stations to say the officials in far away Brasilia know nothing about the hard realities of river life.
 The loudest and most constant protests, however, come from fishermen in areas like this, 450 miles west of Manaus, the capital of Amazonas State. They complain that the resurgent caimans destroy their nets, which can cost between $50 and $200, and consume large quantities of the same game fish that they need to catch and sell to feed their families.
 ''Every time you go out, they always get in the way,'' said Ademar Nunes Nogueira, 41, who has been fishing since he was 10. ''But if you dare to kill a caiman and the environmental agents catch you, you're the one who has to pay a fine.'' 
 Even in Manaus, a city of 1.5 million people, caimans are now a real presence and not just an urban legend. ''There are spectacled caimans living in the sewers of Manaus,'' said William Magnusson, a caiman specialist at the National Institute for Amazon Research there. ''They adapt to anything.''
 The exploding caiman population has also become a political issue in Amazonas, with campaigning politicians promising they will ensure that the ban on hunting is lifted. ''The argument is that if they are doing it in the United States, why can't we do it here?'' said Ronis da Silveira, a professor of biology at the Federal University of Amazonas who is a leading expert on crocodilians.
 No one knows exactly how many caimans now navigate Amazon waters. Asked for an estimate in an interview with the magazine Epoca, Eduardo Braga, governor of Amazonas, replied, ''The only thing I can say is that the presence of the caiman is intimidating and immensely greater than the human population'' of the state, which is 2.8 million.
 The animals have become so plentiful that some fishermen have begun using caiman meat as bait to catch a particular catfish known as the vulture of the waters. Brazilians themselves refuse to eat the fish, so it is exported upriver to Colombia, where it is considered a delicacy.
 Mr. Magnusson puts the total caiman population at ''tens of millions,'' but government officials defend the hunting ban, arguing that to lift it would bring about a return of the same predatory practices that nearly drove the caiman into extinction in the first place. They say the campaign to resume hunting reflects the peasants' desire for more income and a prejudice that stems from mankind's ancestral fear of reptiles.
 ''Mosquitoes transmit malaria, which kills a lot more people than caimans ever have,'' said Henrique Pereira dos Santos, regional director of the government's environmental agency. ''I think you have to take the semiotics of all this into account.''
 What may well be the largest concentration of crocodilians anywhere in the world can be found here at the Mamiraua Sustainable Development Reserve. ''At this time of year, there are some places where the caiman concentrations are so thick that if they just sat there and didn't move, you could walk across their backs to dry land,'' Mr. Magnusson said.
 At the reserve, which is supported in part by the Wildlife Conservation Society, the government now permits a limited harvest of caimans. One linear inch of the hide of the prized black caiman can be worth up to $25 on the international market if properly skinned, and the meat fetches 30 cents a pound. The skin of spectacled caimans goes for about $3 a square foot. But the program is still experimental, and scientists have doubts about extending it to other places.
 ''You can't allow hunting all over, only in particular areas and at certain times of year, where and when concentrations are the largest,'' cautioned Professor da Silveira, who is involved with the project. ''You must be selective and at the same time convince the residents of the region that there is something in it for them, something of economic value, that the caiman is not just a pest.''
 A selective approach, however, does not appeal at all to Sebastiao Batista Pereira, 46, a peasant who lives in a hut at the edge of the river a bit farther downstream. When water levels rose nearly to his front door during the latest rainy season, one caiman made off with a pig he had just bought while another came perilously close to his 78-year-old mother and youngest child as they were bathing at the river's edge.
 ''Look, I don't hunt the beast to take its meat or skin into the city to sell,'' Mr. Pereira said. ''That would be abusive and a clear violation of the law. But I'll say this before any authority: if I come across a snake or a caiman on the trail, I'll kill it. What is worth more, the life of my children or of some animal, and a wild, violent beast at that?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The caimans of the upper Amazon system were once a species in peril, and Brazil banned hunting. Now the crocodilians have recovered, and number perhaps in the millions. Fishermen say the caimans reduce their catch, and would like them culled. Some riverside residents say the crocs also threaten livestock and even people. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)Map of Brazil highlighting Mamiraua: Limited hunting of caimans is now allowed at Mamiraua.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); RIVERS (90%); FISHES (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); CHILDREN (75%); ANIMALS (74%); FAMILY (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Caiman (Reptile); Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Endangered and Extinct Species; Hunting and Trapping; Livestock; Caiman (Reptile)

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: AMAZON RIVER (79%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Brazil; Mamiraua (Brazil)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



122 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

India Says It May Pull Troops from Kashmir
India will pull back troops from the disputed territory of Kashmir if militant infiltration and violence ends, the prime minister's office announced after a rare meeting with Kashmiri separatists. The meeting came barely a week before the leaders of India and Pakistan are to meet during the United Nations General Assembly session in New York. A3

A Strike at Iraq Election Effort
The American military recently moved into a small town 10 miles south of Falluja, one of the most violent locales in Iraq, to secure it for the coming elections, and the insurgents took all of a day to respond. They fired a rocket that missed the Americans and landed on a nearby playground, killing a 12-year-old boy and wounding eight other children. A7

In an unusual public rebuke, President Jalal Talabani angrily criticized other Arab states, saying they had insulted Iraq by not sending diplomats to Baghdad and had not sent condolence letters about the stampede last week in which almost 1,000 Shiite pilgrims were killed. A7

13 Suspected Taliban Are Killed
Afghan and American forces mounted an operation into a remote mountainous district of southern Afghanistan in pursuit of a group of insurgents and killed 13 suspected Taliban and detained over 40 people, Afghan and American officials said. A11

Indonesian Jet Crash Kills 143
An Indonesian passenger plane crashed into a crowded neighborhood shortly after takeoff in the northern city of Medan, killing 104 people aboard and 39 on the ground. A3

Kosovo Chief Has Lung Cancer
The president of the United Nations-administered province of Kosovo, Ibrahim Rugova, said he was suffering from lung cancer, raising questions about his participation in negotiations on the future of the region scheduled to begin this fall. A4

Chirac Recovers in Hospital
President Jacques Chirac is in the hospital recovering from what doctors describe as a minor condition affecting his sight, but the French are already writing his political epitaph. Though he has two years left in his term and has left open the possibility that he might run again, the media, political opponents and even his most loyal allies are acting as if he is already gone. A8

Pressure on Lebanon President
Pressure has been mounting in recent days for the resignation of President Emile Lahoud, who has clung to office even as his Syrian backers have been forced to withdraw from Lebanon. A12

Chernobyl Progress Report
Nearly 20 years after the huge accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, a new scientific report has found that its aftereffects on health and the environment have not proved as dire as scientists had predicted. The report was prepared by a panel of more than 100 experts convened by United Nations agencies. A10

NATIONAL A16-25

Bush Returns to South Amid Criticism
As criticism raged over the federal government's response to Hurricane Katrina, President Bush returned to the Gulf Coast, and Army engineers resealed two levees that had been breached by the storm and cautiously began pumping water out of New Orleans. A1

At a tan-colored warehouse next to the modest city hall in St. Gabriel, La., refrigerated trucks began bringing what are expected to be thousands of bodies to the temporary mortuary set up to process the victims of Hurricane Katrina. A1

The Bush administration has been stung by criticism of its handling of the hurricane by anguished Louisiana officials and by nervous Republicans from across the country, but it has one stalwart defender right in the eye of the growing political storm, Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi. A25

As President Bush and White House officials fanned out across the Gulf Coast in the White House's campaign to deal with criticism that it had failed in managing the storm's aftermath, there was one unexpected face in their crowd: former president Bill Clinton. A25

Congressional leaders raced to spell out competing plans to help storm victims, offering proposals for emergency health care, housing and economic support, among other measures. Both parties also announced plans to begin hearings into the government's disaster response and into rising oil and gas prices. A20

Bush's Choice for Chief Justice
President Bush said that he would nominate Judge John G. Roberts Jr., who had been his choice to fill the Supreme Court seat being vacated by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, to succeed William H. Rehnquist as chief justice of the United States. A1

Georgia Voting Law Contested
Opponents of a new Georgia law requiring voters to show photo identification at the polls are planning a federal court lawsuit challenging the measure, which they fear will lower voter turnout. The bill eliminates the use of formerly accepted forms of voter identification, like Social Security cards, birth certificates or utility bills. A17

Folic Acid and Birth Defects
A government decision to add folic acid to enriched grain products has reduced the occurrence of two devastating birth defects, but more needs to be done, according to recently published reports. A17

Quarter Eagle Coin Confirmed
A coin owned by generations of a California family has been confirmed by numismatists as one of 12 known Quarter Eagle coins that were made of Gold Rush ore in 1854 at the San Francisco Mint. The seller descends from Chinese immigrants who worked the California gold fields. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Zero Tolerance Drug Policy Hurts FDNY 9/11 Veterans
Praised by department officials as effective and necessary, the New York City Fire Department's zero-tolerance drug policy has drawn criticism from mental health professionals and the firefighters' union as extreme and unfair. Caught in the middle are a handful of fallen heroes still trying to deal with the emotional repercussions of 9/11. B1

Fox Station Won't Air Ad
Local television station Fox 5 WNYW, is refusing to run a provocative advertisement promoting a Democratic candidate for Manhattan borough president. Brian Ellner's campaign is charging that the station is doing so because the spot takes a swipe at President Bush. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Combing the Coast for Clues
Scientists and researchers are scouring the Gulf Coast where Hurricane Katrina first came ashore, mapping changes in beach formations and patterns of damage for clues about why this storm was so destructive. F1

Health & Fitness F6

OBITUARIES C11

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

Jerry Rice Retires
Jerry Rice, legendary receiver who holds 38 NFL records, announced his retirement at a press conference, bringing to an end his 20-year career in pro football. D6

ARTS E1-8

Palestinian Bombers on Film
The Palestinian director Hany Abu-Assad's feature ''Paradise Now'' tells the story of two young Palestinians who volunteer to become suicide bombers. His handling of the politically volitile topic is drawing praise and critical acclaim. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10
 Volkswagen Plans Job Cuts
Volkswagen said it planned deep cuts in jobs in Germany, injecting a combustible element into a German election campaign already driven by fears about unemployment. The company did not disclose how many jobs would be affected, though analysts and news reports put the figure at 10,000. C1

Kazaa Loses in Australia
An Australian court ruled that the popular file-sharing network Kazaa violated Australian music copyrights and ordered the company to modify its software to help prevent it. The ruling culminates an 18-month legal battle between the recording industry and the Australian-based owners of Kazaa. C3

E.U. and China End Dispute
China and the European Union agreed to end their dispute over Chinese-made clothes marooned on European docks, as both sides sought to use a high-level meeting in Beijing to stress broader cooperation. C3

Bayou Sought Film Deals
As state and federal authorities pore through documents for Bayou Management, the hedge fund sued by the United States government last week for defrauding investors of at least $300 million, a separate trail indicates the principals, operating out of the Bayou offices, were trying to get into the movie business. C3
 Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: John Roberts's rapid ascension; Katrina and the gas pump; back to school, thinking globally.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E7
Weather D8
TV Listings E8


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); CANCER (69%); LUNG CANCER (64%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); POWER PLANTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: EMILE LAHOUD (56%); JALAL TALABANI (55%); JACQUES CHIRAC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) KASHMIR (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (90%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%) INDIA (95%); ASIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (93%); INDONESIA (92%); KOSOVO (92%); LEBANON (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



123 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: BOOM FOR HOUSTON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Houston Finds Business Boon After Katrina

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Damon Darlin contributed reporting from New York for this article and Maureen Balleza from Houston.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Perhaps no city in the United States is in a better spot than Houston to turn Katrina's tragedy into opportunity. And businesses here are already scrambling to profit in the hurricane's aftermath. 
 Oil services companies based here are racing to carry out repairs to damaged offshore platforms in the Gulf of Mexico; the promise of plenty of work to do sent shares in two large companies, Halliburton and Baker Hughes, soaring to 52-week highs last week. The Port of Houston is preparing for an increase in traffic as shippers divert cargoes away from the damaged ports of Pascagoula, Miss., and New Orleans.
 Owners of office space here are witnessing a surge in leasing as New Orleans companies, including that city's oldest bank, scramble to set up new headquarters in Houston, helping to shore up its sagging property market. With brio that might make an ambulance-chaser proud, one company, National Realty Investments, is offering special financing deals ''for hurricane survivors only,'' with no down payments and discounted closing costs. 
 All this, of course, is capitalism at work, moving quickly to get resources to where they are needed most. And those who move fastest are likely to do best.
 Meanwhile, even small businesses and cheap hotels are benefiting from the population surge, which could total up to 250,000 people. Some hardware stores have sold out their entire supply of gasoline cans and generators to people preparing for an eventual return to the devastated region.
 ''It feels like the only things left in south Louisiana are snakes and alligators,'' said John E. Olson, co-manager of Houston Energy Partners, a hedge fund that operates out of a skyscraper downtown. ''Houston is positioned for a boom.''
 Long known for its commercial fervor, Houston is the largest city in the South and has a metropolitan population of more than four million. It has one of the nation's busiest ports and remains unrivaled as a center for the American energy industry. 
 Halliburton, for instance, moved its headquarters to Houston from Dallas in 2003, joining dozens of companies based here that provide services for oil and natural gas producers. 
 Halliburton differs from many oil services companies in that it also does significant business with the federal government. The company, which has contracts in Iraq, has a contract with the Navy that has already kept it busy after Hurricane Katrina. The company's KBR unit was doing repairs and cleanup at three naval facilities in Mississippi last week.
 Halliburton was also planning to go to New Orleans to start repairs at other naval facilities as soon as it was considered safe to do so, Cathy Mann, a spokeswoman, said. 
 Executives at other Houston companies said they were wasting little time in carrying out repairs in the Gulf of Mexico, where at least 20 offshore rigs and platforms are believed damaged or destroyed. Tetra Technologies, which repairs or decommissions old platforms in the gulf, had employees in a helicopter the day after the storm passed to survey the damage.
 ''I always hate to talk about positives in a situation like this, but this is certainly a growth business over the next 6 to 12 months,'' said Geoffrey M. Hertel, Tetra's chief executive. By Friday, Tetra had been able to send an 800-ton barge it owns, the Arapaho, to the gulf to be used for platform repairs, Mr. Hertel said.
 Some here are wary about seeming too gleeful in light of New Orleans's misery. Houston officials were quick to point out on Friday that they were making a convention center downtown available to evacuees from the disaster zone, potentially forcing some events to be canceled. And the Port of Houston Authority tried to soften the blow to other ports as it started to receive shipments diverted from Louisiana and Mississippi.
 ''We sincerely hope that these great gulf coast ports can get back to work as soon as possible,'' the port said in a statement last week. 
 But the new business is obviously welcome. ''We're getting inquiry calls since the beginning of the week,'' Felicia Griffin, a spokeswoman for the port, said on Friday. ''We're prepared to do whatever is necessary to meet the needs of our customers.''
 If the storm works to Houston's benefit, it would not be the first time a natural disaster of extraordinary size sparked some economic dynamism here. The hurricane of 1900 in nearby Galveston, which killed more than 6,000 people and almost leveled the most thriving commercial city in Texas, paved the way for Houston, located 50 miles inland, to emerge as a regional center for shipping and the refining of oil discovered in East Texas fields.
 The displacement of companies to Houston from New Orleans is an abrupt acceleration of a trend that has been going on for decades. Many large companies, particularly those in the energy business, have made that move over the years, leaving New Orleans more dependent on tourism and other service industries. 
 A surge of business activity in Houston this time around might lift the fortunes of a city that is still struggling to recover from the collapse of Enron and two decades of job cuts in the energy industry, which has shrunk as production of oil in Texas and the United States has declined. 
 Rising oil and natural gas prices in the last two years have strengthened the finances of Houston's largest energy companies, but have done little to improve employment prospects in the city, where the unemployment rate was 5.5 percent in July, compared with 5 percent nationally. During the last oil boom in the 1970's, 150,000 jobs were created in the business of oil field equipment, according to Barton Smith, director of the Institute for Regional Forecasting at the University of Houston. 
 However, since the 1980's, about 130,000 of those jobs have been lost as oil and natural gas exploration migrated farther away from Houston, largely to countries in West Africa, the Middle East and Asia -- and companies were able to produce oil field equipment more cheaply abroad. Houston remains essential for energy research and is the undisputed center for energy deals and finance, but those activities employ relatively few people. 
 Partly as a result, Houston has one of the most moribund big-city real estate markets. 
 ''There are many instances of companies coming to Houston for temporary space,'' said Louis B. Cushman, vice chairman of Cushman & Wakefield, a commercial real estate company here. In its own offices, Cushman has finally been able to sublease some extra space to a business of 8 to 10 people that had been in New Orleans. Mr. Cushman said his firm had found offices for two companies that had already decided they were not going back. 
 One company that has temporarily exchanged New Orleans for Houston is Whitney Holding, the parent company of Whitney National Bank, founded in 1883 and one of the oldest banks in New Orleans. Another New Orleans oil exploration company, Energy Partners, said in a statement last week that it was also making Houston its temporary headquarters. Other companies are following suit.
 ''It's exploding,'' said Stephen D. DuPlantis, senior managing director at CB Richard Ellis. ''When I talk to owners of office buildings, they say people are not even negotiating. As tragic as it is for New Orleans, it is a boon for Houston.'' 
 Dwaine Ofczarzak, the general manager of Buffalo Hardware, an independent store near central Houston, has seen out-of-towners who seem to be preparing to leave and some who are settling in. 
 On Friday, Mr. Ofczarzaksold out his supply of five-gallon gasoline cans to people from Louisiana. But some shoppers were coming in to get keys made for their new homes and talking about enrolling their children in local schools. ''I have friends who've already done that,'' he said. 
 The newcomers may take some getting used to. ''Everybody is still pretty much in awe,'' Mr. Ofczarzak said. ''And with everybody coming in the buses, it hit home.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dick Murray making keys at Buffalo Hardware in Houston. New customers include people who have been displaced by Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Misty Keasler for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''For Some, a Golden Lining''The stock prices of many companies that provide energy services, most of them based in Houston, rose sharply last week before vestors took profits on Friday.BAKER HUGHESMakes products and provides services for oil and gas exploration.CAL DIVE INT'LBuilds, maintain and salvages underwater drilling equipment.CHICAGO BRIDGE AND IRONDesigns and builds oil and gas storage tanks.GLOBAL INDUSTRIESBuilds pipelines and installs drilling platformsHALLIBURTONMakes products and provides services for oil and gas exploration.McDERMOTT INT'LMakes products and provides services for oil and gas exploration.TETRA TECH.Makes chemical products used for drilling and managing wells.TIDEWATERTows platforms and rigs
 its ships carry people and supplies to rigs.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CITIES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); GASOLINE (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (68%); NAVIES (64%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); HARDWARE STORES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Ports; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (86%); BAKER HUGHES INC (84%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (86%); BHI (SWX) (84%); BHI (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (86%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (86%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (86%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (86%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (96%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) Houston (Tex); New Orleans (La); Gulf of Mexico; Pascagoula (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



124 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Vanished, Under Force of Time and an Inconstant Earth

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
Nothing lasts forever.
 Just ask Ozymandias, or Nate Fisher.
Only the wind inhabits the cliff dwellings at Mesa Verde in Colorado, birds and vines the pyramids of the Maya. Sand and silence have swallowed the clamors of frankincense traders and camels in the old desert center of Ubar. Troy was buried for centuries before it was uncovered. Parts of the Great Library of Alexandria, center of learning in the ancient world, might be sleeping with the fishes, off Egypt's coast in the Mediterranean. 
 ''Cities rise and fall depending on what made them go in the first place,'' said Peirce Lewis, an expert on the history of New Orleans and an emeritus professor of geography at Pennsylvania State University.
 Changes in climate can make a friendly place less welcoming. Catastrophes like volcanoes or giant earthquakes can kill a city quickly. Political or economic shifts can strand what was once a thriving metropolis in a slow death of irrelevance. After the Mississippi River flood of 1993, the residents of Valmeyer, Ill., voted to move their entire town two miles east to higher ground. 
 What will happen to New Orleans now, in the wake of floods and death and violence, is hard to know. But watching the city fill up like a bathtub, with half a million people forced to leave, it has been hard not to think of other places that have fallen to time and the inconstant earth. 
 Some of them have grown larger in death than they ever were in life.
 Take the library in Alexandria. If anyplace might have had justifiable pretensions of permanence it would have been the library, founded sometime around 300 B.C. It grew under the early Ptolemaic rulers of Egypt into an enduring symbol of culture and knowledge before disappearing into the sand and sea less than 1,000 years later.
 ''This was the library,'' said Roger Bagnall, a historian at Columbia. ''It influenced everybody who ever thought about building a library.''
 Nobody, Dr. Bagnall complains, knows how large it was -- estimates range from 40,000 to 400,000 scrolls -- or what was actually in it. The library's demise is equally shrouded in myth. One legend says the books burned during Caesar's conquest of Alexandria in 47 B.C., but the library was still around in the fourth century, according to historical accounts.
 Dr. Bagnall thinks that simple neglect killed the library. ''Books rot,'' even acid-free papyruses, he said, noting that there are no records of any investment in maintaining the library after the early Ptolemies. 
 By the time Christian mobs sacked the library and museum at the end of the century as a pagan institution, there was probably little left to destroy. ''The palace quarter was pretty well wrecked by that point. Whatever had survived the rotting didn't make it past that,'' Dr. Bagnall said.
 Later, in 642, the Arabs moved Egypt's capital to the Cairo region and Alexandria shrank into obscurity.
 On the other side of the globe, in the Caroline Islands of Micronesia, a stony silence relieved only by the lapping of waves envelops the empty city of Nan Madol. It consists of almost 100 islands, built by humans and constructed of columns of basalt 15 feet long and weighing 5 tons, stacked log cabin style to make walls 25 feet high.
 Local legend says that you will die if you spend the night there. But once this was home to the nobles and priests of the Saudeleur dynasty, which ruled Pohnpei's 30,000 inhabitants up until about 500 years ago, according to William S. Ayres, an archaeologist at the University of Oregon. 
 Dr. Ayres said that Nan Madol was constructed out on the reef, starting about 1,500 years ago, partly because people had been living out there for hundreds of years to have easy access to the sea, and, perhaps more important, to better commune with ocean deities. 
 The columns for the walls were quarried on Pohnpei, he said, and floated out to the reef on rafts, about 500,000 tons in all over the 1,000 years of construction, Dr. Ayres has estimated. While most of the islands were living quarters for priests, others were given over to special purposes like making canoes, preparing coconut oil or, most grandly, burying royalty in tombs with courtyards surrounded by 25-foot walls. 
 Nan Madol's end was simple. When the last of the Saudeleurs was overthrown, the island was divided into smaller chiefdoms, ''which exist up to the present day,'' Dr. Ayres said. The city was abandoned to its sleeping kings and its cold stone logs.
 The dry, desert silence in Mesa Verde tells a more complex tale.
 Archaeologists say that in the middle of the 12th century, some 20,000 people were living in the picturesque cliff dwellings and surrounding areas in southwestern Colorado, growing maize, squash and beans, raising turkeys, and apparently fighting with their enemies (thus the cliff houses, which were easier to defend than mesa-top villages). 
 By 1300, these Anasazi, or ''ancient ones,'' were all gone.
 That crash was due to a combination of climatic, political and environmental factors, according to Tim Kohler, an anthropologist at Washington State University, who along with Mark Varien of the Crow Canyon Archaeological Center in Cortez, Colo., has been studying the history of pueblo populations.
 One culprit was climate change. According to classic tree-ring studies by Andrew Ellicott Douglas of the University of Arizona, the years 1275 to 1295 were abnormally dry. 
 Recent work using bristlecone pine tree rings has established that it got cold, as well, during that period, lowering the maize production even more, Dr. Kohler said.
 At the same time, the deer population seems to have declined significantly. As a result they needed the turkeys for protein.
 And what were they feeding the turkeys? Corn.
 ''If something happens to the maize, the system collapses,'' Dr. Kohler said.
 And so it did. Adding to the pressure, apparently, was war, which meant that the people of Mesa Verde were penned in. They didn't or couldn't spread out to less protected areas. Instead they simply left. The green table had turned brown, and perhaps red.
 The most famous lost city of all is one that probably never really existed, Atlantis, the fabulous island civilization swallowed by the sea, which was referred to by Plato.
 Some scholars think he might have been inspired by one or more real events. Among them is the destruction of Helike, a city on the Corinthian coast, which was swallowed by an earthquake and a tsunami one winter night in 373 B.C., during Plato's lifetime.
 ''For the sea was raised by an earthquake,'' wrote the Greek geographer Strabo, ''and it submerged Helike and the Helikonian Poseidon.'' The city went down like the Titanic with its entire population on board. An expeditionary force sent from a nearby town the next day found no survivors and no bodies to recover.
 Though not the seat of empire like fabled Atlantis, Helike was a significant and prosperous city. It was the head of a confederacy of 12 Greek city states, the First Achaean League, whose successor, the Second Achaean League, was recommended as a model of federalism by Alexander Hamilton and James Madison in their Federalist Papers. It minted its own coins.
 Lured by the prospect of an underwater time capsule, archaeologists have long sought the remains of the sunken city.
 Five years ago, after a dozen years of searching, a team of archaeologists led by Dora Katsonopoulou of the Ancient Helike Society in Aigion, Greece, and Steven Soter, a geophysicist with New York University's Center for Ancient Studies, said they had found the lost city -- not in the sea but on the coastal plain next to it, near Aigion, about 45 miles northwest of Corinth. It may have been gradually raised by seismic activity, said Dr. Soter. 
 Moreover, he said, three rivers feeding the coastal plain deposit sediment that helps build it up.
 In expeditions every summer, Dr. Soter and his colleagues have uncovered more and more of the city, including a road that goes almost a mile across the plain, walls, buildings, coins, pottery and a cemetery, although they have not found the center of the city yet.
 Recently they have found a whole new and unknown city, dating from 2200 B.C., the early Bronze Age, near Helike. The sediments of this ruin contain marine and lagoonal microfauna, Dr. Soter said, suggesting that it too, may have been swallowed by an earthquake and a tidal wave like Helike, but 2,000 years earlier, only to rise again.
 It may be, he said, that there have been recurrent floods and abandonments on the plain, the land rising and sinking, cities blooming out of the reborn mud.
 ''Good agricultural land tends to be reoccupied after catastrophes,'' Dr. Soter said, echoing Dr. Lewis's statement. ''People will live there and take their chances.''
 There is in the picture a kind of immortality for the dead, as well as for the perennials blooming on the flood plain. If Helike can give rise to the vision of an Atlantis, a collection of scrolls can forever change our concept of learning and memory and empty stones can inspire us to reveries, what can we expect from jazz, gumbo and soft air at one of the trading crossroads of the world, so blessed and cursed with water?
 New Orleans will never die. It is already larger than life.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ATLANTIS -- The most famous lost city of all, right, it probably never was. Plato described ''a temple to Poseidon himself, the outside covered all over in silver.''
ALEXANDRIA The great lighthouse at Pharos, below, guided ships into port until it fell in an earthquake in the 13th century. Alexandria disappeared in 642.
TROY -- The wooden horse, above, with Greeks inside, used during the siege of Troy. The city was buried for centuries before it was uncovered.
SAN IGNACIO -- The Castle of the Xunantunich Mayan ruins, left, outside San Ignacio, Belize, in 2002. The ruins rise 130 feet above a main plaza.
MESA VERDE -- From 600 A.D. to 1300 A.D., people lived in the area of the present-day Mesa Verde National Park in Colorado, right. Archaeologists say that in the middle of the 12th century some 20,000 people lived in the picturesque cliff dwellings and surrounding areas. (Photo by David Hardy/Photo Researchers Inc.)
(Photo by Corbis-Bettmann)
(Photo by Rischgitz/Getty Images)
(Photo by Lynsey Addario/Saba, for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Richard J. Green/Photo Researchers Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HISTORY (89%); WEATHER (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); LIBRARIES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); GEOGRAPHY (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); HURRICANES (67%); RIVERS (67%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Katrina (Storm); Archaeology and Anthropology; Urban Areas 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%) University of Pennsylvania

PERSON: Dennis Overbye; Peirce (Dr) Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); BELIZE (79%); INDONESIA (79%) New Orleans (La); Alexandria (Egypt); Mesa Verde National Park (Colo); Nan Madol (Indonesia); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



125 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE DEAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: In Small Town, Huge Morgue Takes Shape 

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

DATELINE: ST. GABRIEL, La., Sept. 5 

 BODY:
After the wind, after the flood, after countless bodies are fished from muddy bayous or lifted off street corners or carried down from roofs or attics, the road ends here.
 At a warehouse next to the modest city hall in this ragged town just past where the sprawl of Baton Rouge gives way to farmland, refrigerated trucks on Sunday began the task of bringing what is expected to be thousands of bodies to the temporary mortuary set up to process victims of Hurricane Katrina.
All day long on Monday, trucks bearing equipment and supplies and sometimes victims clattered down the narrow street just over the railroad tracks to what is called the Disaster Portable Mortuary Unit. There a staff of 100 workers -- morticians, forensic pathologists, anthropologists, medical examiners, coroners, fingerprint technicians, radiologists, dental technicians and others -- will identify bodies and prepare them for burial. 
 No one knows how long it will take or how many bodies to expect.
 Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans warned on the NBC program ''Today'' that ''it wouldn't be unreasonable to have 10,000'' dead in the city. 
 Capt. Marlon Defillo, spokesman for the New Orleans police, said city officials did not expect to have even a rough estimate of the number of dead until the end of this week. By then recovery teams will have conducted block-by-block searches of the hardest-hit areas in the eastern part of the city, he said. 
 ''It's not going to be low,'' Captain Defillo said.
 So far only 23 bodies have been brought to the mortuary, and the official death toll for Louisiana stands at 71. Officials said the low count was due mostly to the arduous recovery process and the desire for accuracy. But some also said there was no way to make any kind of reliable projection, so the estimate of 10,000 deaths could turn out to be way off base.
 Whatever the number, nearly all bodies will come here, where officials say they are committed to what seems an almost impossibly contradictory mission -- handling with dispatch the victims in a death toll that could rival that of any natural disaster in American history and treating each body with the knowledge that it was someone's father, someone's mother, someone's child. 
 ''Our goal is to do everything we can under the circumstances to treat each body with as much dignity and respect as we possibly can,'' said Bob Johannessen, a spokesman for the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, which is managing the mortuary operation with the Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. ''We're trying to treat them all as individuals.''
 Mobile units in New Orleans began collecting bodies from streets and flooded areas on Monday and going house to house in some neighborhoods to look for the dead. Until now, bodies had been left to rot in the streets while rescuers focused on searching for survivors.
 Some corpses were tied to road signs and electricity poles so they would not float away, but many have decomposed beyond recognition.
 Mr. Johannessen said bodies would first be taken to collection sites where preliminary information would be gathered to help identify them, including where they were found and any documentation or personal effects found with them.
 They will then be put in body bags, loaded onto refrigerated trucks and sent to this town of 5,300 just south of Baton Rouge, home to two prisons.
 The mortuary facility is about the size of football field and had been used by businesses to store merchandise. It can process about 140 bodies a day and is set up to accommodate 1,000 bodies, but it can be upgraded to handle ''in excess of 5,000,'' Mr. Johannessen said. He said he expected that the facility would be able to handle whatever need arose.
 Mr. Johannessen said bodies taken to the center, many of which have been decomposing in toxic water for a week, would first be decontaminated so they can be handled safely.
 Then officials will begin gathering forensic data, including dental X-rays, photographs, fingerprints and DNA samples, in an effort to identify bodies. Medical records, including information like pacemaker serial numbers or evidence of artificial hips or knees, will be compiled into a profile of each victim and stored in a database made accessible to families looking for missing people. Relatives will not be allowed to visit the bodies at the mortuary, Mr. Johannessen said. 
 The state is looking for burial space, and victims not immediately identified will be buried there. Officials said families could later move bodies to family plots.
 Local residents, who were not told about the facility in advance, had mixed reactions to its presence. Chief Keith Ambeau of the police department acknowledged that some residents had expressed fears about health, odors and the stigma of a giant mortuary operating, perhaps for months, next to a residential area.
 ''It's human nature to have some concerns about bringing in dead bodies,'' Chief Ambeau said. ''People are going to worry about disease, contamination. But I've been saying all morning, my office is right here. I'm not going to put myself in danger. I think for the most part people are compassionate here. Their hearts go out to those people. New Orleans is only 75 miles away. Those are our brothers, our sisters, our loved ones.''
 But at a house just a few hundred yards from the mortuary, three residents shuddered at the thought, with one woman expressing concerns about safety and property values.
 And echoing the issues of class and race brought up by the tragedy, she asked why it was put in her neighborhood, its residents largely, but not entirely, black and lower income. The per capita income in the town is $8,952, compared with $16,912 for the state and $21,587 for the nation.
 ''You look around this neighborhood for yourself,'' said the woman, who is black and did not want to be identified. ''You look at what color lives here. What their economic situation is. There's plenty of empty land in Louisiana. Why put it here?''
 A few houses closer to the site, Paula Chong, who has two grown children and lives with a baby granddaughter, said she would prefer the mortuary to be elsewhere but believed it would be safe.
 ''We just need to turn to God,'' Ms. Chong said. ''All I ask is that they be careful and do everything in accordance with the law.''
 Besides, she said, in the extended family that is south Louisiana, it is a facility that she may need, too.
 Counting her missing cousins, Ms. Chong said: ''I've got, what, 4, 5, 9 or 10 still missing? Lots of my cousins. So why would I complain when I still have family of my own missing?''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about a mortuary set up in St. Gabriel, La., for victims of Hurricane Katrina referred incorrectly in some copies to the only long-term treatment facility for Hansen's disease, or leprosy, in the continental United States. It is in Baton Rouge, not St. Gabriel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); CITIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); FORENSICS (75%); FINGERPRINTING (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); AUTOPSIES (74%); HISTORY (72%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (71%); PATHOLOGY (69%); RADIOLOGY (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Peter Applebome; C Ray (Mayor) Nagin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La); St Gabriel (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



126 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Helping Workers In Restaurants

 BODY:
The restaurant industry and culinary associations have set up several ways to help New Orleans restaurant workers:
 A fund has been established to benefit restaurant and hotel workers. 
Contributions may be sent to: New Orleans Hospitality Workers Disaster Relief Fund, Greater Houston Community Foundation, 4550 Post Oak Place, Suite 100, Houston, 77027; or call (713)333-2200.
On Sept. 12, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., Acadiana restaurant in Washington will sell New Orleans-style po-boy sandwiches, made by some of the city's top chefs, to raise money for victims. Restaurants throughout the country are being encouraged to have similar fund-raisers. Contact Simone Rathle at (703)534-8100, (800)496-1733 or simonepr@aol.com.
 On Oct. 5, restaurants across the country will have a ''Dine for America'' day to support the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund. A Web site, www.dineforamerica.org, will be ready later this week. 
 On Oct. 11, chefs will serve dishes inspired by New Orleans at the Cornell Club in Manhattan. Tickets will be $175 a person. Proceeds will benefit the New Orleans Metropolitan Convention and Visitors Bureau. Contact Katie Callahan at (212)758-5322 or katie@venuepr.com. 
 On Oct. 17 in Washington, Share Our Strength, an antihunger charity, will hold a benefit with 40 top chefs. Information is available at www.strength.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (90%); CHARITIES (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); TOURISM (72%) Restaurants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Labor; Katrina (Storm); Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



127 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Are Broadly Higher in Markets Abroad 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose broadly in European markets yesterday, as crude oil fell to the lowest level since Hurricane Katrina struck the United States Gulf Coast more than a week ago.
 A lower oil price may provide ''a boost to the economy,'' said Richard Batty, a strategist at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh, which manages $190 billion. ''Corporate earnings should be pretty reasonable.'' 
The Dow Jones index of 600 stocks, a European equity benchmark, rose 0.57 percent, to 288.33. The Morgan Stanley Capital International Asia-Pacific Index, which tracks more than 1,000 companies, gained 0.7 percent to 107.91, a five-year high.
 Markets in the United States and Canada were closed for the Labor Day holiday. They will reopen today.
 Brent crude oil for October delivery, which tends to sell at prices slightly below those in New York, declined 1.8 percent yesterday to settle at $64.85 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange in London. Earlier in the session, it touched $64.43, the lowest since Aug. 24.
 Benchmark indexes rose in most West European markets. The DAX Index in Germany advanced nearly 1.5 percent, led by Volkswagen, which said it planned deeper job cuts in Germany to help reverse a slide in earnings. 
 The French CAC 40 Index gained 0.57 percent, and in London, the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index added 0.21 percent.
 Among notable gainers, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe's second-biggest carmaker, was up 1.2 percent in Paris, to 50.65 euros. Samsung Electronics, the world's second-largest maker of liquid-crystal displays in monitors and television sets, climbed 1.3 percent in Seoul.
 Energy shares declined. BP, the largest European-based oil company, slipped 0.8 percent in London..
 Among Asian markets, Japanese stocks advanced, with the Nikkei index of 225 stocks closing at a four-year high. In Mumbai, the benchmark Indian market index climbed to a record. Stocks also gained in Hong Kong, China and Malaysia.
 The benchmark Mexico City stock gauge rose 0.57 percent, to a record 14,857.31, buoyed by America Movil, a leading Latin American cellphone company. 
 ''The market is being driven by the attractive growth in Mexico and the decrease in interest rates that is expected,'' said Roberto Lampl, who helps manage $250 million of Latin American stocks at ING Investment Management's dedicated emerging market funds.
 ''The economy,'' he said, ''is proving to be extremely stable and you have very high oil prices, which should help the Mexican economy'' and increase tax revenue.
 In Brazil, the benchmark index gained 0.7 percent. Stocks rose 1.1 percent in Argentina. 
 In Australia, shares of Telstra, the nation's largest phone company, tumbled 5.2 percent, the most in four years. Telstra said its fiscal-year operating profit would drop as much as 10 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); HURRICANES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (83%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (54%); AMERICA MOVIL SAB DE CV (52%); ING GROEP NV (51%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (83%); SMSN (LSE) (54%); 005930 (KSE) (54%); AMX (NYSE) (52%); AMX (BMV) (52%); AMOV (NASDAQ) (52%); INGA (BIT) (51%); INGA (AMS) (51%); ING (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); MUMBAI, INDIA (69%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (53%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



128 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Flood Control, With Nature's Help 

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
On a cold winter night in 1953, the Netherlands suffered a terrifying blow as old dikes and seawalls gave way during a violent storm.
 Flooding killed nearly 2,000 people and forced the evacuation of 70,000 others. Icy waters turned villages and farm districts into lakes dotted with dead cows.
Ultimately, the waters destroyed more than 4,000 buildings.
 Afterward, the Dutch -- realizing that the disaster could have been much worse, since half the country, including Amsterdam and Rotterdam, lies below sea level -- vowed never again. 
 After all, as Tjalle de Haan, a Dutch public works official, put it in an interview last week, ''Here, if something goes wrong, 10 million people can be threatened.'' 
 So at a cost of some $8 billion over a quarter century, the nation erected a futuristic system of coastal defenses that is admired around the world today as one of the best barriers against the sea's fury -- one that could withstand the kind of storm that happens only once in 10,000 years.
 The Dutch case is one of many in which low-lying cities and countries with long histories of flooding have turned science, technology and raw determination into ways of forestalling disaster.
 London has built floodgates on the Thames River. Venice is doing the same on the Adriatic.
 Japan is erecting superlevees. Even Bangladesh has built concrete shelters on stilts as emergency havens for flood victims.
 Experts in the United States say the foreign projects are worth studying for inspiration about how to rebuild New Orleans once the deadly waters of Hurricane Katrina recede into history.
 ''They have something to teach us,'' said George Z. Voyiadjis, head of civil and environmental engineering at Louisiana State University. ''We should capitalize on them for building the future here.''
 Innovations are happening in the United States as well. California is experimenting with ''smart'' levees wired with nervous systems of electronic sensors that sound alarms if a weakening levee threatens to open a breach, giving crews time to make emergency repairs.
 ''It's catching on,'' said William F. Kane, president of Kane GeoTech Inc., a company in Stockton, Calif., that wires levees and other large structures with failure sensors. ''There's a lot of potential for this kind of thing.''
 While scientists hail the power of technology to thwart destructive forces, they note that flood control is a job for nature at least as much as for engineers. Long before anyone built levees and floodgates, barrier islands were serving to block dangerous storm surges. Of course, those islands often fall victim to coastal development.
 ''You'll never be able to control nature,'' said Rafael L. Bras, an environmental engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who consults on the Venetian project. ''The best way is to understand how nature works and make it work in our favor.''
 In humanity's long struggle against the sea, the Dutch experience in 1953 was a grim milestone. The North Sea flood produced the kind of havoc that became all too familiar on the Gulf Coast last week. When a crippled dike threatened to give way and let floodwaters spill into Rotterdam, a boat captain -- like the brave little Dutch boy with the quick finger -- steered his vessel into the breach, sinking his ship and saving the city. 
 ''We were all called upon to collect clothes and food for the disaster victims,'' recalled Jelle de Boer, a Dutch high school student at the time who is now an emeritus professor of geology at Wesleyan University. ''Cows were swimming around. They'd stand when they could, shivering and dying. It was a terrible mess.''
 The reaction was intense and manifold. Linking offshore islands with dams, seawalls and other structures, the Dutch erected a kind of forward defensive shield, drastically reducing the amount of vulnerable coastline. Mr. de Haan, director of the water branch of the Road and Hydraulic Engineering Institute of the Dutch Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water Management, said the project had the effect of shortening the coast by more than 400 miles.
 For New Orleans, experts say, a similar forward defense would seal off Lake Pontchartrain from the Gulf of Mexico. That step would eliminate a major conduit by which hurricanes drive storm surges to the city's edge -- or, as in the case of Katrina, through the barriers. 
 The Dutch also increased the height of their dikes, which now loom as much as 40 feet above the churning sea. (In New Orleans, the tallest flood walls are about half that size.) The government also erected vast complexes of floodgates that close when the weather turns violent but remain open at other times, so saltwater can flow into estuaries, preserving their ecosystems and the livelihoods that depend on them.
 The Netherlands maintains large teams of inspectors and maintenance crews that safeguard the sprawling complex, which is known as Delta Works. The annual maintenance bill is about $500 million. ''It's not cheap,'' Mr. de Haan said. ''But it's not so much in relation to the gross national product. So it's a kind of insurance.''
 The 1953 storm also pounded Britain. Along the Thames, flooding killed more than 300 people, ruined farmland and frightened Londoners, whose central city narrowly escaped disaster.
 The British responded with a plan to better regulate tidal surges sweeping up the Thames from the North Sea. Engineers designed an attractive barrier meant to minimize interference with the river's natural flow. It went into service in 1982 at Woolwich, about 10 miles east of central London.
 Normally, its semicircular gates lie flush to the riverbed in concrete supporting sills, creating no obstacle to river traffic. When the need arises, the gates pivot up, rising as high as a five-story building to block rising waters. The authorities have raised the Thames barrier more than 80 times.
 In Venice, the precipitating event was a 1966 flood that caused wide damage and economic loss. The upshot was an ambitious plan known as the Moses Project, named after the biblical parting of the Red Sea. Its 78 gargantuan gates would rest on the floor of the Adriatic Sea and rise when needed to block dangerous tidal surges.
 Long debate over the project's merits repeatedly delayed the start of construction until May 2003. Opponents claim that the $4.5 billion effort will prove ineffective while threatening to kill the fragile lagoon in which Venice sits. In theory, the gates are to be completed by 2010.
 ''People fight doing things like this,'' said Dr. Bras, of M.I.T. ''But when disaster strikes you realize how important it is to think ahead.''
 Planners did just that in Bangladesh after a 1991 hurricane created huge storm surges that killed more than 130,000 people. World charities helped build hundreds of concrete shelters on stilts, which in recent storms have saved thousands of lives.
 In Japan, a continuous battle against flooding in dense urban areas has produced an effort to develop superlevees. Unlike the customary mounds of earth, sand and rock that hold back threatening waters, they are broad expanses of raised land meant to resist breaks and withstand overflows. 
 The approach being tried in California relies on a technology known as time-domain reflectometry. It works on the same principle as radar: a pulse of energy fired down a coaxial cable bounces back when it reaches the end or a distortion, like a bend or crimp.
 Careful measurement of the echoes traveling back along the cable can disclose serious distortions and danger. Dr. Kane, of Kane GeoTech, has installed such a system in the Sacramento River delta, along a levee that is threatening to fail.
 Could such a system have saved New Orleans? ''It would have given them more information,'' said Charles H. Dowding, a top expert on the technology at Northwestern University. ''The failure of a levee would have been detected.'' But experts say it is still unclear whether such a warning would have been enough to prevent the catastrophic breaches. 
 Dr. Bras says sensor technologies for detecting levee failure hold much promise. But he adds that less glamorous approaches, like regular maintenance, may be even more valuable, since prevention is always the best cure.
 ''We have to learn that things have to be reviewed, revised, maintained and repaired as needed,'' he said. ''To see a city like New Orleans suffer such devastation -- some of that was preventable.'' 
 He added that no matter how ambitious the coastal engineering, no matter how innovative and well maintained, the systems of levees, seawalls and floodgates were likely to suffer sporadic failures.
 ''Nature will throw big things at us once in a while,'' he said. ''There's always the possibility that nature will trump us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photo by Corbis-Bettmann)
(Illustration by Frank O'Connell)(pg. F1)
After catastrophic floods in 1953, the Netherlands built dams and other barriers that have drastically reduced the amount of vulnerable coastline. At left, the Oosterschelde Dam in the North Sea
at right, the Maeslant surge barrier, made up of two gates that swing into position when needed, protects Rotterdam. (Photo by David Cumming/Corbis-Bettmann)
(Photo by Tineke Dijkstra/Hollandse Hoogte)(pg. F4)Map of Netherlands highlighting dams. (pg. F4)Chart: ''Movable Barrier''Built to protect London after disastrous 1953 floods, the Thames Barrier, above, is a series of 10 floodgates with housings that rise above the water like architectural fantasies. The gates themselves are set in the riverbed, so water flow and river traffic are not blocked in normal conditions. But during storms they can be raised to make a steel wall across the river more than 60 feet high.Diagram of the floodgates showing the gates open and closed.(Sources by The Environment Agency, Britain
 Travel London)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL STORMS (90%); RIVERS (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (68%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Dams and Dikes; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods

COMPANY: AEROQUEST INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%) Massachusetts Institute of Technology

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (52%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: William J Broad; Rafael L Bras

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) London (Eng); Great Britain; Venice (Italy); Italy; Netherlands; Thames River (Eng); New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



129 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Back to School, Thinking Globally

 BODY:
The nearly 50 million children who are returning to the nation's public schools are incrementally better off than they would have been five years ago. That's partly because of the federal No Child Left Behind Act, which requires the states to narrow the achievement gap between rich and poor students and generally improve student performance in exchange for federal dollars.
 The great achievement of No Child Left Behind is that it has forced the states to focus at last on educational inequality, the nation's most corrosive social problem. But it has been less successful at getting educators and politicians to see the education problem in a global context, and to understand that this country is rapidly losing ground to the nations we compete with for high-skilled jobs requiring strong math and science skills. 
 American taxpayers have heard a fair amount about the fact that their children lag behind the children of Britain, France, Germany and Japan. But American students are also bested by nations like Poland, Ireland and the Czech Republic. Worst of all, they fall further and further behind their peers abroad the longer they stay in school. 
 The United States can still prosper in a world where its labor costs are higher than competitors', but it cannot do that if the cheaper workers abroad are also better educated. Business leaders who have firsthand experience with this problem warn that this country could become a third-rate economic power unless it radically remakes its schools. But the education community is in deep denial.
 American educators typically respond with yawns -- and a series of myths. The most common is that Europeans educate only the elite, while this nation educates everybody. That hasn't been true since the early 20th century. Comparisons show that the rest of the developed world does a better job educating students of all economic backgrounds.
 A second myth -- that America's white elite children compare favorably with those abroad -- is also false. In the most recent international data comparing students in the top 5 percent in terms of achievement, the United States ranks 23rd out of 29. The third and most common myth -- that the nations that do better than us are ''homogenous'' societies -- is also not true. Immigration has transformed much of Europe, as it has the United States. 
 The nations that have left us behind educationally have a few things in common. They decide at the national level what children should learn and when they should learn it. They appear to have higher and more uniform standards for teacher training and performance, as well as better compensation. Government education officials monitor schools closely to ensure a uniform quality of education. The United States, in contrast, has an almost random system. We leave curriculum issues to localities and to textbook companies, which run the educational system by default.
 The United States needs to develop a coherent policy that makes schools better everywhere. That means strengthening teaching and curriculums in poor communities, and it also means improving education for the best American students, who look like geniuses in math and science until they are stacked up against better-prepared foreign youngsters. Unless this country acts, our economy will wind up occupying the same low-performing spot on the global charts that our schools occupy now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (91%); CHILDREN (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (75%); MATHEMATICS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); IMMIGRATION (61%); RANKINGS (61%) Education and Schools; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Mathematics; Science and Technology; Labor

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (75%); GERMANY (70%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



130 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Increases, Again

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The news is stark and unadorned by political spin: the number of Americans who live below the poverty line has risen for the fourth consecutive year (''Poverty in U.S. Grew in 2004, While Income Failed to Rise for 5th Straight Year,'' news article, Aug. 31).
 We pride ourselves on being the richest nation in the world, yet 37 million of our citizens struggle every day to find adequate food, shelter and clothing. Never mind about such extravagances as hope or dreams.
 As a civilized society, do we measure economic success by how well the top 12 percent of our population is doing, or the bottom 12 percent?

David Alexander
Powell, Ohio, Aug. 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) United States Economy; Income

PERSON: David Alexander

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



131 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup to Sell Bonds to Raise Money in Japan

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Citigroup said on Monday that it planned to sell 230 billion yen, or $2.1 billion, of ''samurai bonds'' to Japanese investors, the largest effort by a foreign company to raise capital in Japan.
 Analysts said that Citigroup, which is based in New York, would probably use the money from the sale, scheduled for Sept. 16, to revitalize its operations in Japan, one of the world's largest markets. Citigroup suffered a blow in Japan last year when regulators ordered its private banking unit shut down because of manipulative sales practices and lax controls to prevent money laundering. 
Regaining momentum in Japan is important for Citigroup as its tries to rebound from regulatory problems here and in Europe. Analysts said a crucial step would be to find ways to make money in Japan, where residents have more than $10 trillion in personal assets, much of it in banks, earning little interest.
 For 15 years, Citigroup had built the largest foreign retail banking presence in Japan, with branches in every major city and more than 10,000 employees. Many customers were wealthy professionals who did business overseas, giving the bank a coveted client base. The loss of private banking, which offers personalized investment advice to rich individuals, will make it harder to keep many of these customers, analysts said.
 The loss also deprives Citigroup of what analysts call one of its most profitable operations in Japan, though the bank will not release a breakdown of its earnings here. A spokeswoman for Citigroup in Japan, Yuko Akiya, said that over all, Japan accounted for about 5 percent of Citigroup's $86.2 billion in worldwide net revenues last year.
 In Monday's announcement, Citigroup said it would sell the samurai bonds -- yen-denominated bonds issued in Japan by foreign companies -- in six allotments. The largest will mature in 15 years, Ms. Akiya said, and pay interest of 2.04 percent a year.
 Citigroup last sold bonds in Japan in 2003, before the private banking scandal. Analysts said it would also be the largest sale of samurai bonds yet, surpassing DaimlerChrysler's issuance of 220 billion yen in 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LINGERIE (76%); TEXTILES (74%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); RETAIL BANKING (70%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (55%); MONEY LAUNDERING (55%); SCANDALS (50%) Government Bonds; Economic Conditions and Trends; Apparel; Textiles; Sweaters; Lingerie and Underwear; International Trade and World Market; Apparel

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler; Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%) Japan; China; Europe; European Union

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



132 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A Class War Runs Through It

BYLINE: By Jonathan Weber. 
Jonathan Weber is the founder and editor in chief of NewWest.Net, an online publication about the Rocky Mountain West.

DATELINE: MISSOULA, MONT. 

 BODY:
JAMES COX KENNEDY, the head of Cox Enterprises, the Atlanta media company, was just doing what lots of modern media moguls do when he bought nearly 4,000 acres in Montana's Ruby Valley: transforming remote Western ranchland into a private hunting and fishing retreat, and doing some commendable habitat conservation and restoration work in the process.
 Perhaps unwittingly, however, Mr. Kennedy has walked into the middle of two separate but closely related controversies, one having to do with Montana's stream-access laws -- that one will be the subject of a mediation session next week -- and the other relating to conservation easements.
Both issues, ultimately, are about class, and point to the need for new policies (and vigilance) in policing the conservation easement system and defending access to public lands and water. Just as important, though, Mr. Kennedy's Ruby Valley imbroglio underscores the need for a deeper sense of noblesse oblige among the ultra-rich as they buy up great swaths of the American West. 
 Montana's 20-year-old stream-access law, which declares that the state's rivers and streams are public property up to the high-water mark, provides a clear window into land-use battles. The law, among the strongest in the nation, has survived numerous legal challenges and become a source of pride for many Montanans (including Gov. Brian Schweitzer), though it's still fiercely opposed by property-rights advocates.
 The law does not require property owners to provide entry to waterways through their own land, but it does permit access from any public property. As a result, among the most common access points are county bridges. That's where Mr. Kennedy has run into trouble: his ranch includes all or parts of two bridges that cross the Ruby River, and he has blocked access by reinforcing old fencing along those bridges. Stream-access advocates have sued the county for allowing the fences, setting the stage for a showdown on a controversy that has raged for almost a decade. 
 Mr. Kennedy claims that the bridges are neither safe nor legal river-access sites. More to the point, though, he says allowing public access would damage the riparian habitat and destroy a fragile fishery that he has spent a lot of time and money nursing back to health. That's a similar argument to one being made by the brokerage mogul Charles Schwab, the rock musician Huey Lewis and others who are fighting to keep the public off a waterway south of Missoula where they own property. 
 And that brings us to the second controversy. Much of Mr. Kennedy's Ruby Valley property is in a conservation easement, an arrangement under which property owners receive tax breaks for forgoing development on ecologically sensitive lands. Easements have been under fire in Congress in the wake of revelations that some developers were claiming conservation easements for golf courses (hey, it's open space, right?) and otherwise gaming the system.
 While Mr. Kennedy's Ruby Valley easements are not cover for a golf course, they do have one unfortunate feature: Mr. Kennedy is the president of the land trust that is supposed to serve as the enforcer of the easement agreement. That's exactly the kind of arrangement that rightly gets easement critics up in arms.
 Easements have proved to be a very effective means of encouraging land conservation and habitat preservation. But there's something wrong when a billionaire buys a ranch, gets a tax break for an easement and then chases the locals off the river in the name of conservation. 
 Class, of course, is an issue here. Consider the people who are fighting for access to the river: retired miners and schoolteachers and other working folk, some of whom grew up fishing the local waters and some of whom couldn't give a hoot about fishing but hate seeing the landscape walled off. But there's also wider a social issue involved: if land and water conservation and wildlife protection come to be seen as things that only benefit the rich, it will reinforce the perception that conservation is a luxury of the elite rather than a universal concern. 
 If class warfare breaks out in Montana, the environment is going to suffer. So what do we do? As Jon Christensen and Terry Anderson, two of the West's leading thinkers on conservation issues, have pointed out, the conservation easement system needs to be better policed. For starters, appraisers -- working with state and federal tax authorities -- should establish appraisal standards for easement donations. Moreover, the land trusts should work together to set up an accreditation system, and Congress could mandate that tax deductions be available only for donations to accredited land trusts. 
 When it comes to public access, state and local officials -- and voters -- need to recognize that the heavy bias toward property rights that exists throughout the West is something that will increasingly serve a small minority of wealthy landowners, not mom-and-pop homesteaders or family farmers. This imbalance needs to change. County commissioners, who are often on the front lines, can't allow themselves to be intimidated by the threat of litigation over access issues. And they need strong back-up from state attorneys general. 
 But a big part of the solution is in the hands of the landowners themselves. In an era of economic policies that are producing an ever-larger group of the super-rich, those who are wealthier than the rest of us have a responsibility to manage their properties at least partly in the public interest. 
 They need to meet with their neighbors, get involved with the community and find compromises that work for everyone. In most cases, the locals will be more than receptive to even small gestures. After all, who wants to fight when the fish are biting? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (90%); RIVERS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (77%); FISHERIES (77%); PROPERTY LAW (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); LAND RECLAMATION (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); POP & ROCK (50%) Rivers; Public Property; Law and Legislation; Rivers

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (51%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: JIM KENNEDY (90%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (57%) Jonathan Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (92%) MONTANA, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Montana 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



133 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; COURT IN TRANSITION: THE POSITION - Supreme Court Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Court Nominee Well Schooled In Job's Pitfalls

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
As a Supreme Court law clerk to William H. Rehnquist decades ago, John G. Roberts Jr. learned how not to be chief justice.
 Now that President Bush has chosen him for the position, he will, if the Senate confirms him, have the rare chance to put those lessons into practice.
 His boss back in 1980-81 was an associate justice, one who often chafed under the leadership style of Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and who freed, even encouraged, his law clerks to poke fun at what they saw as the chief justice's pomposity and penchant for self-aggrandizement.
Robert M. Weisberg, who clerked during the same term for another justice, said Monday that he would never forget walking down a corridor at the court and coming upon Justice Rehnquist and his law clerks, who were all peering through a window into an inner courtyard, where Chief Justice Burger was supervising preparations for a reception. 
 ''It was very funny to see Rehnquist and his clerks just spontaneously cracking up at the sight of the chief justice directing the proper placement of the silver,'' Mr. Weisberg said.
 Later, when Mr. Roberts was working in the White House counsel's office, memorandums from that period show, he devoted considerable attention to knocking down various proposals from Chief Justice Burger, including one for a new tribunal to ease the Supreme Court's workload.
 In a 1983 memorandum, to Fred F. Fielding, the White House counsel, he said a Burger request for authority to name an administrative ''chancellor'' for the federal courts was ''the silliest'' of various proposals and added, in a reference to the Anglophilia for which the chief justice was well known around the court, ''The bill does not specify whether the Chancellor will wear a powdered wig.''
 Justice Rehnquist, upon becoming chief justice in 1986, promptly made changes that clearly reflected his own disapproval of how Warren Burger had run the court. For example, he converted the job of administrative assistant to the chief justice into a two-year appointment rather than a permanent position, to avoid the empire-building that had become evident during the Burger years.
 The very different Rehnquist management style, straightforward and unadorned, was much appreciated within the court, as reflected in the statements the associate justices issued after Chief Justice Rehnquist's death on Saturday night. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg called him ''the fairest, most efficient boss I have ever had.''
 As a law clerk, Judge Roberts, who now sits on the federal appeals court here, would not have been in a position to observe the justices' conference, the twice-weekly closed-door sessions that only the justices themselves attend. But he certainly knew how frustrating Justice Rehnquist found the meandering and confusing way in which the conference proceeded under Chief Justice Burger's leadership.
 Among the papers that Justice Harry A. Blackmun left to the Library of Congress is a letter Justice Rehnquist sent to Chief Justice Burger that began: ''Dear Chief: I had a feeling that at the very close of today's Conference we may have fitted Matthew Arnold's closing lines in 'Dover Beach' wherein he refers to those 'Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight/Where ignorant armies clash by night.'''
 Justice Rehnquist then went on to ''take the liberty of stating my understanding'' of what had taken place. When he became chief justice, he streamlined the conference considerably, and justices rarely came away with any doubt about what had occurred.
 Running the conference is only one of a chief justice's many functions that are not visible to the public. Indeed, the job is somewhat like an iceberg, with much of it below the surface. And it is confusing: there is no one place to look for a definitive description of the job. 
 The modern chief justiceship is ''a mix of custom, practice and statute,'' according to Judith Resnik, a professor at Yale Law School who has made a close study of the federal judiciary and the role of the chief justice in particular. In an interview on Monday, Professor Resnik noted that there were dozens of federal statutes that mention the chief justice, with ''half a dozen that really matter.'' The Constitution itself did not even establish the office except by implication, mentioning it only in connection with presiding over impeachment trials conducted by the Senate.
 ''It's basically a role that has developed over the 20th century, as the federal judiciary has developed into a kind of administrative agency,'' Professor Resnik said. For example, Chief Justice Burger established, and Chief Justice Rehnquist continued, the practice of issuing an annual ''state of the judiciary'' report to give voice to the concerns of federal judges and the chief justice's own priorities.
 The chief justice presides over a corps of some 2,000 federal judges, including 1,200 with life tenure and the rest, including magistrate and bankruptcy judges, who serve for fixed terms. The judicial branch includes a staff of 30,000, with the chief justice picking the most important central administrators, and runs on an annual budget of $5.4 billion. The chief justice also picks the members of important policy-making judicial committees and of specialized courts, including the 11-member Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Court, which issues special national security surveillance warrants.
 In addition, the chief justice leads the Judicial Conference of the United States, a group of judges who make policy for the federal courts and who present the judiciary's views to Congress. The Judicial Conference has its roots in an organization created by Congress in 1922 at the behest of Chief Justice William Howard Taft, the former president, who carved out an active policy role for the chief justice. He shaped the modern court by lobbying successfully for legislation to give the court discretion in choosing which cases to hear.
 As a student of American history, Judge Roberts may find none of this a surprise. Nor is it a surprise that Professor Resnik and other scholars are beginning to ask whether this array of powers, having grown bit by bit over the years, with hardly anyone noticing, really belongs in the hands of a single, unelected, life-tenured official.
 ''As a democracy, we generally don't believe that power should be centralized in one person for so long,'' she said, while offering the concededly audacious suggestion that the chief justiceship might rotate every four years or so.
 Perhaps that is a conversation that might move from the recesses of the legal academy to the public, sometime during the 25 or 30 years that Chief Justice Roberts would be likely to serve.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chief Justice Warren E. Burger administering the oath of office in 1986 to William H. Rehnquist, left, his successor, as President Ronald Reagan and Justice Rehnquist's wife, Natalie, watched. Justice Rehnquist had made no secret of his unhappiness with Chief Justice Burger's style. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A19)Chart/Photos: ''Court Leaders''William H. Rehnquist is one of nine men who served as chief justice for more than a decade.John MarshallTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 34 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1801<7>The fourth chief justice set the principle of judicial review, allowing the Supreme Court to declare acts of Congress invalid if in conflict with the Constitution, and allowing the court to reverse state court rulings.Roger B. TaneyTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 28 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1836<7>Favored states' rights, voided laws limiting the rights of slaveholders, ruled in the Dred Scott case that blacks could not become citizens of the United States.Morrison R. WaiteTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 14 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1874<7>Interpreted Constitutional amendments after the Civil War.Melville W. FullerTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 21 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1888<7>Favored limited government, economic liberty, private property rights, free trade and contractual freedom.Edward Douglass WhiteTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 10 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1910<7>PRIOR TENURE ON THE COURT: 16 yearsDissolved American Tobacco and Standard Oil monopolies.Charles Evans HughesTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 11 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1930PRIOR TENURE ON THE COURT: 5 yearsExpanded freedom of the press, ruled against some of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal legislation.Earl WarrenTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 15 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1953Broadened civil rights, established Miranda rights.Warren E. BurgerTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 17 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1969Ruled in favor of school desegregation and the right to abortion. Reinstated the death penalty.William H. RehnquistTENURE AS CHIEF JUSTICE: 19 yearsBECAME CHIEF: 1986<7>PRIOR TENURE ON THE COURT: 14 yearsEnhanced states' rights, reduced the role of the federal courts.<7> -- DIED WHILE HOLDING OFFICE(Jonathan Corum/The New York Times)(Sources: Supreme Court
 Oyez.org )(pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (83%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Judges

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US) ; Supreme Court (US) 

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%) Linda Greenhouse; William H (Chief Justice) Rehnquist; Warren E (1907-1995) Burger; John G Jr (Judge) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



134 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; COURT IN TRANSITION: CONGRESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Competition Starts in Congress to Aid Victims and to Investigate the Response

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Congressional leaders of the two parties raced on Monday to spell out competing plans to help victims of Hurricane Katrina, offering proposals for emergency health care, housing and economic support, among other initiatives. 
 Republicans said committees would announce plans for hearings into the apparently flawed response and increasing oil and gasoline prices.
Democrats said they expected the aftermath of the storm to be a reminder of the importance of federal power in the hearings on the selection of Judge John G. Roberts Jr. for the Supreme Court. Lawmakers postponed confirmation hearings for Judge Roberts, whom President Bush tapped on Monday to succeed Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who died on Saturday. 
 Pushed aside are Republican plans to try to repeal the estate tax.
 ''We are going to take a hard, hard look at our disaster response'' at the local and federal level, the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, said Monday at a news conference. 
 Mr. Frist said he expected the Senate energy committee to look at ''price gouging, the excessive oil profits and what responsibility oil companies have in the skyrocketing fuel prices.'' 
 Mr. Frist, a physician who visited the region to help treat victims, said the Senate would pass measures to allow courts whose buildings were destroyed to meet in other jurisdictions. He said Senate committees would take up bills to give aid to storm victims, rebuild public works, revive the regional economy and prepare for future disasters.
 Congressional leaders are to meet President Bush on Tuesday to discuss relief efforts, and a group of cabinet secretaries, including Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, are to brief the full Senate at the end of the day. 
 Senator Harry Reid, the minority leader, called for an investigation of the disaster response by a commission modeled after the 9/11 panel. Mr. Reid faulted the White House as failing to take responsibility. 
 ''The buck stops at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,'' he said.
 At a news conference, Mr. Reid presented a package of emergency measures for storm victims, including dropping some residency and documentation requirements for Medicaid, easing access to Medicare drug benefits, increasing federal financial support for affected states and health care providers, providing emergency vouchers for housing, making federal payments to victims, and creating tax incentives to encourage people to take in the displaced.
 In an interview, Mr. Reid also said Democrats were weighing measures to lower gasoline costs, including a proposal by Senator Carl Levin of Michigan for a price cap. 
 ''That is on the table,'' Mr. Reid said. ''We have to do something to address gas prices.''
 Bob Stevenson, a spokesman for Mr. Frist, said the proposed hearings on the oil crisis would seek to determine the cause of the price increases and the proper responses. 
 ''Oil companies,'' Mr. Stevenson said, ''have a responsibility to ensure that the prices reflected at the pump are at reasonable levels, and should that not be the case, I would expect there could be hell to pay in Congress.''
 House Republican leaders have said they will move immediately to pass relief measures in concert with the Senate while House committees hold investigations into the hurricane response and gasoline prices. 
 The House minority leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, called for a bipartisan group of House members to investigate the response and recommend emergency legislation.
 ''Waiting for multiple committees to act on a crisis of such breadth is not acceptable,'' Ms. Pelosi wrote in a letter to House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois. 
 Mr. Frist and Mr. Reid agreed to postpone the confirmation hearings for Judge Roberts until after Chief Justice Rehnquist's funeral on Wednesday. 
 But Democratic and Republican aides said the parties were negotiating whether to take up the hearings on Thursday or on next Monday. 
 Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee who have been seeking more time to look into Judge Roberts's positions are pushing for the longer postponement. But aides involved in the negotiations said the Republicans wanted to begin as soon as possible, unless the Democrats committed to a final floor vote on confirmation by the end of the month. 
 Democrats are refusing a firm deadline to retain the threat of a filibuster, blocking confirmation by refusing to close debate, even though several Democratic senators have said such a move is extremely unlikely.
 Whenever the hearings begin, Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said, Democrats are quite likely to bring up Hurricane Katrina in the debate.
 ''One of the major controversies in the court is how strong should the federal government be,'' Mr. Schumer said, ''and the hurricane has just made an argument, a devastating argument, that the federal government should be more powerful.''
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, another Democrat on the committee, suggested in a statement that the hearings should be further deferred while the public focused on the storm and mourned Chief Justice Rehnquist.
 ''In the midst of a national disaster of biblical proportions,'' Mr. Kennedy said, ''it is difficult for the American people to participate fully in the selection of the next chief justice, one of the most important positions in our government and the chief protector of our Constitution.'' 
 Apparently trying to turn the debate on Judge Roberts into leverage over the president's next selection for the Supreme Court, Mr. Kennedy also argued that the Senate should withhold a vote on his confirmation until the naming of the next choice. 
 ''We should know whom the president intends to propose,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''The American people care deeply about the overall balance of their highest court and its dedication as an institution to the protection of their rights.''
 Asked about that argument, Mr. Reid said, ''Senator Kennedy has his opinions, and that is something we will talk about'' at the caucus meeting on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, said he expected the energy committee to examine rising gas prices. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); TAX LAW (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ESTATE TAX (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); MEDICAID (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Medicine and Health; Housing ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Katrina (Storm); Appointments and Executive Changes; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: HARRY REID (79%); JOHN ROBERTS (79%); CARL LEVIN (59%); MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) David D Kirkpatrick; John G Jr (Judge) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



135 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: The Larger Shame

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The wretchedness coming across our television screens from Louisiana has illuminated the way children sometimes pay with their lives, even in America, for being born to poor families.
 It has also underscored the Bush administration's ongoing reluctance or ineptitude in helping the poorest Americans. The scenes in New Orleans reminded me of the suffering I saw after a similar storm killed 130,000 people in Bangladesh in 1991 -- except that Bangladesh's government showed more urgency in trying to save its most vulnerable citizens.
But Hurricane Katrina also underscores a much larger problem: the growing number of Americans trapped in a never-ending cyclone of poverty. And while it may be too early to apportion blame definitively for the mishandling of the hurricane, even President Bush's own administration acknowledges that America's poverty is worsening on his watch. 
 The U.S. Census Bureau reported a few days ago that the poverty rate rose again last year, with 1.1 million more Americans living in poverty in 2004 than a year earlier. After declining sharply under Bill Clinton, the number of poor people has now risen 17 percent under Mr. Bush.
 If it's shameful that we have bloated corpses on New Orleans streets, it's even more disgraceful that the infant mortality rate in America's capital is twice as high as in China's capital. That's right -- the number of babies who died before their first birthdays amounted to 11.5 per thousand live births in 2002 in Washington, compared with 4.6 in Beijing.
 Indeed, according to the United Nations Development Program, an African-American baby in Washington has less chance of surviving its first year than a baby born in urban parts of the state of Kerala in India.
 Under Mr. Bush, the national infant mortality rate has risen for the first time since 1958. The U.S. ranks 43rd in the world in infant mortality, according to the C.I.A.'s World Factbook; if we could reach the level of Singapore, ranked No.1, we would save 18,900 children's lives each year.
 So in some ways the poor children evacuated from New Orleans are the lucky ones because they may now get checkups and vaccinations. Nationally, 29 percent of children had no health insurance at some point in the last 12 months, and many get neither checkups nor vaccinations. On immunizations, the U.S. ranks 84th for measles and 89th for polio.
 One of the most dispiriting elements of the catastrophe in New Orleans was the looting. I covered the 1995 earthquake that leveled much of Kobe, Japan, killing 5,500, and for days I searched there for any sign of criminal behavior. Finally I found a resident who had seen three men steal food. I asked him whether he was embarrassed that Japanese would engage in such thuggery.
 ''No, you misunderstand,'' he said firmly. ''These looters weren't Japanese. They were foreigners.''
 The reasons for this are complex and partly cultural, but one reason is that Japan has tried hard to stitch all Japanese together into the nation's social fabric. In contrast, the U.S. -- particularly under the Bush administration -- has systematically cut people out of the social fabric by redistributing wealth from the most vulnerable Americans to the most affluent.
 It's not just that funds may have gone to Iraq rather than to the levees in New Orleans; it's also that money went to tax cuts for the wealthiest rather than vaccinations for children.
 None of this is to suggest that there are easy solutions for American poverty. As Ronald Reagan once said, ''We fought a war on poverty, and poverty won.'' But we don't need to be that pessimistic -- in the late 1990's, we made real headway. A ray of hope is beautifully presented in one of the best books ever written on American poverty, ''American Dream,'' by my Times colleague Jason DeParle.
 So the best monument to the catastrophe in New Orleans would be a serious national effort to address the poverty that afflicts the entire country. And in our shock and guilt, that may be politically feasible. Rich Lowry of The National Review, in defending Mr. Bush, offered an excellent suggestion: ''a grand right-left bargain that includes greater attention to out-of-wedlock births from the Left in exchange for the Right's support for more urban spending.'' That would be the best legacy possible for Katrina.
 Otherwise, long after the horrors have left TV screens, about 50 of the 77 babies who die each day, on average, will die needlessly, because of poverty. That's the larger hurricane of poverty that shames our land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); INFANT MORTALITY (87%); VACCINES (86%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); WEATHER (76%); POVERTY RATES (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); CENSUS (55%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (65%); KERALA, INDIA (57%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (99%); BANGLADESH (94%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



136 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Katrina and the Gas Pump

 BODY:
In Katrina's wake, gasoline prices are rising faster than oil prices -- an odd, but explicable, phenomenon. Enough crude oil is being produced to meet global demand, but the ability of the Gulf Coast's many refineries to turn the oil into gasoline has been devastated, as has the ability to transport the gasoline that does become available. Those supply bottlenecks are chiefly responsible for this past week's higher prices at the pump.
 President Bush's immediate response is to lend oil from the government's Strategic Petroleum Reserve to refineries and to streamline the refining process by temporarily relaxing environmental standards -- sound stopgap measures to help ensure a steady supply of gasoline. The International Energy Agency, whose members are 26 rich nations, has also made a big contribution, pledging on Friday to supply world markets with an additional 60 million barrels of oil and gasoline over the next 30 days, half of which would come from the United States' emergency stockpiles. 
But it would be wrong to think -- and act -- as if this crisis is fundamentally a supply shock. Rather, it is a supply shock on top of blatantly excessive demand. The near-term responses from Mr. Bush and the international agency, welcome as they are, will not solve the larger problems laid bare by Katrina. Worse, Mr. Bush's record on energy issues does not suggest that he is up to that task. 
 Gasoline prices seem destined to stay elevated until at least next spring. Even if the damage in the Gulf Coast is repaired soon -- a big if -- oil producers and refiners will require a premium to compensate for the risk that another killer storm could further disrupt operations in this hurricane season. Moreover, Katrina is causing refineries to draw down oil stockpiles that would have been used to produce home heating fuel for use this winter. That makes for a very thin supply cushion in the months ahead -- not to mention high home-heating bills on top of high gasoline prices. 
 But even before the hurricane hit, oil producers were pumping all-out to meet demand. Driven mainly by gasoline consumption in the United States and industrialization in China and India, the world's consumption of oil is 85 million barrels a day. That is just short of the maximum that can be pumped, and leaves only about 1 million barrels a day in spare capacity, the lowest level in three decades. As with gasoline, the thinner the cushion, the higher the price. 
 Mr. Bush, who has a wildly overconfident view of how much oil could be pumped if American drillers were given a freer rein, refuses to see the overarching problem as one of excessive demand. Americans' gas-guzzling ways keep prices up, threatening the nation's economic well-being and creating windfall profits for foreign oil producers, some of which are used to finance terrorism. 
 So it is up to Congress to grapple with the big picture -- now, before another disaster strikes. The Senate energy committee is scheduled to meet today, and much of the attention will naturally be devoted to the current problems in the refining process. Those issues must obviously be addressed, including ways to help municipalities overcome the ''not in my backyard'' obstacles to building state-of-the-art refineries. 
 But the focus must be -- finally -- on reducing oil consumption. The lawmakers should call for a rapid, mandatory increase in automobile mileage standards. And they must resist measures that would encourage only more consumption, like temporarily suspending gasoline taxes.
 This is the moment to gather the political will to do what should have already been done. If the lawmakers don't act, they are courting problems that may be even harder to solve later on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); HURRICANES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); GASOLINE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); WEATHER (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Refineries; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Strategic Petroleum Reserve

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005



137 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Offer Doubled To Build Arena In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Under pressure from a rival bidder for the Atlantic railyard in Brooklyn, the developer Bruce C. Ratner has agreed to double his initial offer to roughly $100 million for the right to build a glass-walled basketball arena that would anchor the largest private development in the borough's history, people on both sides of the negotiations said yesterday.
 The higher bid means that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which owns the yard and is perennially in need of cash, would get an extra $50 million to spend on the transportation system. The agency would also get a new, upgraded train yard on land to the west of the existing 8.3-acre yard, which is at the intersection of Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues.
The board of the transportation agency could hold a special meeting as soon as Tuesday to approve the deal, according to two executives involved in the talks, who asked not to be identified because of the continuing negotiations. 
 The $555.3 million arena, which would be a new home for the Nets and the most expensive arena in the country, is one element of a $3.5 billion development of 6,000 apartments as well as stores, office space and parks that would transform the area. Much to the dismay of some residents and critics of the project, two of the 15 towers planned for the 21-acre site would rise above the Williamsburgh Savings Bank, currently the tallest building in Brooklyn, and dwarf much of the surrounding neighborhood.
 The transportation agency and the developer declined to comment on the latest offer.
 Also yesterday, the New York City Independent Budget Office released a report stating that the arena would generate a modest but positive fiscal impact for the state and the city. After a significant public investment, which includes a $200 million subsidy, tax-exempt financing and numerous tax breaks, the arena would create an estimated fiscal surplus of $107 million over 30 years, or $28.5 million for the city alone, the budget office estimated.
 Supporters and opponents of the project immediately seized on the report to buttress their arguments.
 Mr. Ratner's company, Forest City Ratner, said in a statement released yesterday that it was pleased that the budget office had concluded that the arena was a ''win-win'' situation for the city and the state. 
 ''As we have said all along,'' said James P. Stuckey, the company vice president overseeing the project, ''Atlantic Yards is about more than basketball. It's about affordable housing and jobs and creating a development that complements the borough and the surrounding communities.''
 Critics contended that large development projects rarely live up to the extravagant claims made in economic reports used to justify them.
 Forest City plans to build 6,000 apartments, with half of the 4,500 rental units reserved for low- to middle-income residents. Also, Forest City recently promised to pursue the development of an additional 600 to 1,000 apartments for low- to moderate-income residents. 
 The project has evolved over the last two years, with the value of construction rising to $3.5 billion from $2.5 billion, while the cost of the arena jumped to $555 million from $435 million.
 Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, a neighborhood group that opposes the project, said that the report showed that supporters had exaggerated the benefits of the project to taxpayers. Both he and City Councilwoman Letitia James, who represents the area surrounding the site, noted that the budget office said the city would see a surplus of only $28.5 million above its investment in the project after 30 years.
 ''It's not much of a surplus, less than a million dollars a year,'' Ms. James said. ''Given all the negative impacts, I don't think it's worth the public investment.''
 Ms. James said that the Ratner project would add to traffic congestion at an already busy intersection and prompt the removal of longtime residents and businesses through condemnation.
 Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the Independent Budget Office said that unlike most stadium projects, the proposed 18,000-seat basketball arena for the Nets would generate new tax dollars largely because the franchise would relocate to Brooklyn from New Jersey. 
 ''We expect that many of their fans will spend their entertainment dollars here rather than there,'' she said. 
 Ms. Lowenstein said she acknowledged the limitations of doing a strict economic impact analysis for the arena alone. She said it was hard to estimate the increased number of jobs and spending for the entire project, although she believes the proposed housing would have a positive effect.
 Mr. Ratner, a partner with The New York Times Company on its new headquarters building in Midtown Manhattan, had been under considerable pressure to raise his offer ever since the Extell Development Company offered $150 million for the development rights in July. Extell won support from some local groups because it proposed a smaller project and did not require that the state condemn some adjoining properties. But the transportation authority ultimately rejected the Extell bid, giving Mr. Ratner until Saturday to come up with a better offer.
 The developer estimated that the value of his original bid was worth $329 million because he would build a larger, more modern railyard. Transportation agency officials said they were unsure whether the Extell bid included the cost of building a new railyard.
 Under the new deal, Mr. Ratner will still build a new yard.
 Janel Paterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the project ''would clearly result in increased revenues, especially when the surrounding development is taken into consideration.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about opposition to the Atlantic Yards development project in Brooklyn referred incompletely to the position of Councilman David Yassky. While the project's developer, Bruce C. Ratner, indeed solicited his support early on, Mr. Yassky said he was withholding it until his concerns were addressed. 
 An article on Sept. 15 about the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's decision to sell Mr. Ratner the development rights misstated the location of a new railyard he plans to build. (That error also appeared in an article on Sept. 7.) The new site is east of the existing one, not west. A reader pointed out the error in a recent e-mail message.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); APPROVALS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (63%); TAX LAW (62%) Area Planning and Renewal; Basketball; Stadiums and Arenas; Finances; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (82%) New Jersey Nets; Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Bruce C Ratner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; Brooklyn (NYC); New York City; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



138 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: GAMBLING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: The Perils of Casinos That Float 

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and GARY RIVLIN; Ken Belson reported from Biloxi, Miss., for this article and Gary Rivlin from San Francisco.

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Bernie Burkholder, dressed in scuffed tennis shoes, shorts and a dirty shirt, could have been any other shell-shocked survivor of Hurricane Katrina, desperate to find enough gas to motor out of town. Mr. Burkholder stood by a badly damaged hotel here in the coastal town of Biloxi, siphoning gas from a barrel into a pair of five-gallon plastic jugs. 
 Mr. Burkholder, however, was not just any passer-by. He runs the hotel, and also the casino barge, that sat beached on the sand across the street as if a wayward whale had run aground. The first floor of the casino is completely gutted, most of the windows are blown out, and the hotel's top floor is so damaged that anyone looking from across the street can see clear to the other side.
''We're like everyone else, assessing the damage,'' said Mr. Burkholder, the chief executive of Treasure Bay Casino, one of the dozen or so major casinos that had dotted the coastal highway here. ''We knew it was going to be bad, but not that bad.'' 
 And Mr. Burkholder can count himself among the lucky ones. Several casinos -- all were built on barges because, under Mississippi law, they must float on water to keep them physically separate from nearby communities -- were lifted by the rising waters and flung to the land, where they were smashed into pieces.
 That kind of devastation might persuade other businesses to shut permanently. But the gambling industry is not just any business, and no one -- not even gambling's most outspoken foes -- expects the owners of gambling palaces like Treasure Bay, the Beau Rivage or the Isle of Capri to walk away, no matter how staggering the financial losses. 
 The wreckage could even hold a silver lining. The extensive damage has set off a debate as to whether casino owners should be allowed to rebuild on land. Even one of the industry's most vocal opponents is resigned to seeing dry-land casinos in the near future, but wants to extract a hefty price in return. 
 The drawbacks of floating casinos are visible everywhere. The President Casino, for instance, came loose from its mooring, traveled about a half mile and landed on a Holiday Inn roughly 100 yards inland. Only about a third of the Holiday Inn still stands.
 Still other casinos were so badly flooded they will have to be destroyed. The Gulf Coast economy has come to depend heavily on its casinos, and not just those in Mississippi. Louisiana's casinos in Shreveport and in New Orleans, which also suffered heavy damage, generated a total of $1.45 billion in revenue last year. 
 Mississippi's 29 dockside casinos (the state is also home to two Indian casinos) booked $2.78 billion in gambling revenues in 2004, according to the American Gaming Association, a trade organization based in Washington. The two dozen or so casinos in Biloxi and Gulfport -- communities that bleed into one another along the coast -- accounted for nearly half that amount, generating $1.23 billion in revenue last year.
 ''Nothing makes as much money as a casino, especially a casino that enjoys a monopoly or oligopoly,'' as the casinos of Biloxi and Gulfport do, said I. Nelson Rose, an authority on the casino industry and the author of ''Gambling and the Law.'' 
 Several casino owners have made it clear, however, that they expect the state to change the laws that would require them to rebuild on barges rather than on land. For years, casino operators have been seeking that change, but they have never had so dramatic a set of visual aids to make their case that barge-based casinos are far more risky than those built on land.
 ''You saw in Biloxi that at least a couple of these casino barges were actually picked up and tossed across a highway,'' said Frank J. Fahrenkopf, chief executive of the American Gaming Association. In contrast, he said, ''The hotel structures, while they were damaged, were still standing.''
 One surprising voice of opposition to the land plans is J. Terrence Lanni, the chairman and chief executive of MGM Mirage, one of the largest gambling companies in the United States. He arrived in Biloxi on Tuesday to set up a service center, survey the damage and help distribute paychecks to some of the 3,400 employees of the Beau Rivage, one of MGM Grand's casinos. 
 He said he would oppose allowing casinos to build on land because of the damage that would cause to the local economy. ''If local businesses want to rebuild, they need the Beau Rivage. If we moved inland, it would hurt them,'' Mr. Lanni said, because the Biloxi and Gulfport businesses depend on having casinos on the coast. 
 The decision to allow only water-based casinos in Mississippi is in part an artifact of history. The initial vision for casinos up and down the Mississippi River involved riverboat casinos that invoked quaint memories of Mark Twain and riverboat card games. 
 Allowing gambling only on water was also viewed as a way of mollifying gambling's foes, and the idea was put forward by state leaders feeling the financial pinch of the recession of the late 1980's and early 1990's. 
 ''Gambling is what I call a morally suspect industry,'' Mr. Rose said. ''Lawmakers feel like they have to isolate casinos from the rest of society.'' The answer in Colorado, he said, was to limit gambling to remote mountain towns. ''In Mississippi, they decided to inoculate the rest of the population by surrounding the casinos with holy water,'' he said. 
 The first Mississippi casino opened in August 1992, after other states, including Iowa and Illinois, began operating riverboat casinos. Iowa and Illinois have eased water-based regulations, and both states are now home to land-based casinos. 
 Mr. Fahrenkopf declined to speculate on whether there would be land-based casinos in Mississippi. ''Right now everyone's No. 1 priority is locating our employees and making sure they are safe and have the basic essentials,'' he said. 
 When reached at his home in Rockford, Ill., the Rev. Thomas Grey, executive director of the National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, was already following the debate.
 ''I'm sure you'll see land-based casinos in Mississippi,'' he said. ''All you have to do is look at how this is playing in the national media. All you're hearing is that these casinos must be replaced, that these casinos are needed to revive the coast.'' 
 Mississippi's dockside casinos paid $333.01 million in state taxes last year, accounting for about 10 percent of state's budget. They also employed nearly 29,000 people in a state with one of the nation's highest unemployment rates. And with the local economy in havoc, some of the casino owners are providing their own safety net to displaced workers. 
 Outside the Beau Rivage yesterday, nearly 1,000 employees stood in line to collect a paycheck for last week, when the casino was closed. Linda Bradley, who worked for the last six years in the hotel's spa, carpooled with three other employees to pick up her check. ''We feel better just being in this line,'' she said. 
 For Biloxi, the casinos have been a sparkplug for the local economy, drawing tourists and contributing heavily to tax coffers. Critics like Mr. Grey, however, say that while casinos contribute to the tax base, they also increase the cost of government because extra police officers and other services are needed to deal with social problems that, they say, come with gambling. 
 Mississippi's casinos pay a 12 percent tax on their winnings, which is among the lowest in the United States. 
 Mr. Grey said that his organization is likely to push for a sharp increase in that tax rate in exchange for the right to build on land. 
 Yet gambling has had such a broad impact on Mississippi's coffers -- since the introduction of casinos, the state has enjoyed its first budget surplus in more than 100 years, Mr. Rose said -- and the need in Mississippi is so great right now that state lawmakers are certain to make restoration of the casinos a top priority. 
 The loss of gambling revenue is certain to hurt efforts to rebuild Mississippi's battered communities.
 ''If ever there was a reason to allow gaming on land, this was it,'' Mr. Burkholder said.
 No matter how fast the Mississippi Legislature moves, it seems few casinos will be able to open their doors anytime soon. Highway 90, the two-lane road that hugs the coast, is a chewed-up mess, with whole chunks missing as pockets of earth have collapsed. The beaches are littered with metal, wood and other debris, as is the water.
 Yet Mr. Burkholder and his staff are not wasting time. Mr. Burkholder, a squat man with gray hair and a beard, was among 33 hotel and casino employees who rode out the storm inside the 265-room hotel that sits on land next to where the casino had been. 
 Since the storm, a skeletal crew has been working to scavenge anything that can be found. They have hauled out tons of coins and gambling chips that were locked in a vault, hidden in an undisclosed location. 
 One workman said people at the hotel carry guns and knives to protect themselves. ''Anything people can get their hands on can be bartered,'' said one casino employee who identified himself only as David. ''People are crazy right now.''
 Mainly, though, employees seem to be making the best they can of the situation. The wreckage yielded cases of liquor, which the employees have been enjoying every evening at the converted poolside bar they are calling Cafe Katrina. 
 The 50 or so employees now working at the Treasure Bay ''are having a ball every night,'' said Susan Varnes, the casino's vice president and general manager. Mr. Burkholder, who lost his home -- ''wiped to the slab,'' he said -- is now living full time at the hotel, as are other employees. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Treasure Bay Casino, or what was left of it Saturday, in Biloxi, Miss., above and below. Mississippi law requires that casinos be on water, and many of them were carried ashore by rising waters from the hurricane and damaged other structures. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Bernie Burkholder of the Treasure Bay Casino in Biloxi, Miss. He said damage was worse than expected. (Photograph by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Gambling Destination''Mississippi's casino areas are among the biggest in the country, based on revenue. They employ thousands of workers and contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to the state's tax revenues each year.CASINO MARKETS: Las Vegas Strip2004 REVENUE (In billions): $5.33CASINO MARKETS: Atlantic City2004 REVENUE (In billions): 4.81CASINO MARKETS: Chicago area2004 REVENUE (In billions): 2.35CASINO MARKETS: Connecticut2004 REVENUE (In billions): 1.65CASINO MARKETS: Tunica/Lula, Miss.2004 REVENUE (In billions): 1.20CASINO MARKETS: Detroit2004 REVENUE (In billions): 1.19CASINO MARKETS: Biloxi/Gulfport, Miss.2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.91CASINO MARKETS: Reno and Sparks, Nev.2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.90CASINO MARKETS: Lawrenceburg/Rising Sun/Elizabeth/Vevay, Ind.2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.86CASINO MARKETS: St. Louis2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.85CASINO MARKETS: Shreveport, La.2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.84CASINO MARKETS: Boulder Strip, Nev.2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.79CASINO MARKETS: Kansas City, Mo.2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.70CASINO MARKETS: Downtown Las Vegas2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.66CASINO MARKETS: New Orleans2004 REVENUE (In billions): 0.61MISSISSIPPI CASINOSTotal 2004 revenue: $2.78 billionEmployee wages: $1.01 billionTaxes paid: $0.33 billion(Source by American Gaming Association)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (90%); GAMING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CASINOS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (75%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (71%); TRENDS (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Gambling; Casinos; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Law and Legislation; Gambling; Barges and Scows

ORGANIZATION: Mgm Mirage Inc

PERSON: J TERRENCE LANNI (52%) J Terrence Lanni; Ken Belson; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (97%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Mississippi; Louisiana; Shreveport (La); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



139 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing World Trade: U.S. Appeals W.T.O. Ruling On Lumber

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The United States yesterday appealed a World Trade Organization panel report that found Washington failed to comply with the W.T.O.'s rulings in a lumber dispute with Canada, trade officials said. 
The appellate panel will rule within three months. If it upholds the assessment that Washington failed to comply with the W.T.O., the door will be opened for Canada to introduce penalties. Ottawa is seeking 200 million Canadian dollars ($168.2 million) in retaliatory duties. The dispute centers on Canadian claims that the United States disregarded decisions made by the W.T.O. last year, when American import duties on Canadian lumber were judged to be too high. Washington claims it has adopted the W.T.O.'s recommendations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); IMPORT TRADE (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



140 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: FUEL COSTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices At Pumps Show Signs Of Easing 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Gasoline prices at the pump inched lower yesterday for the first time since Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast last week, suggesting that fuel costs, while still high, are leveling off and may not lead to as severe an energy shock as once feared. 
 But even as the surge in prices appeared to be easing, policy makers and consumer groups nationwide increased calls for a host of government interventions to punish those shown to be profiteers, reduce gas taxes and institute price caps.
In Washington, a Senate committee held the first of two scheduled hearings on energy supplies and gasoline prices, which topped $3 a gallon last week after Katrina knocked out vital parts of the nation's energy supply system. [Page C5.] 
 At the same time, officials from several states said they were taking forceful measures against what they viewed as price gouging.
 Nationwide, retail prices averaged $3.041 a gallon for regular unleaded gasoline yesterday, up significantly from a week ago but down from a peak of $3.057 on Monday, according to AAA. At the wholesale level, gasoline for October delivery fell by 12.87 cents a gallon, or 5.9 percent, to $2.055 after climbing past $2.60 last week on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil prices fell $1.61 a barrel, to $65.96; last week they closed as high as $69.81.
 The stock market also rose as investors sensed some relief on the energy front and expressed more optimism that the Federal Reserve might pause soon in its campaign of regular interest rate increases. The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 1.3 percent, to 1,233.39; the Dow industrials gained 141.87 points, to 10,589.24.
 While a majority of the gulf's offshore production remained down yesterday, oil companies have been achieving steady gains in restoring output and are moving aggressively to resume wider refining and distribution of oil products. 
 About 870,000 barrels a day of oil, or 58 percent of the gulf's total output, are still shut down, according to the latest government figures. That is an improvement from last week when the storm cut 95 percent of the gulf's production. The region accounts for more than 25 percent of domestic oil production and about 2 percent of global oil supplies.
 Still, a public reaction against sharp gasoline price increases appeared to be rising and some policy makers called for reimposing energy price controls, which were eliminated in the early 1980's. 
 ''We have a million people displaced and we have 100 million Americans that are opening up their hearts and homes,'' Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''We have some people who are trying to take advantage of it for their own personal profit. And we should stop them in their tracks.''
 Mr. Levin asked President Bush to impose emergency price caps on gasoline until supplies are restored to levels before the hurricane struck.
 Most economists are extremely wary of price caps and say they do more harm than good by leading to artificial shortages caused in part by encouraging consumers to buy more gasoline when they should be curbing demand. By contrast, market-driven price increases, as painful as they may seem, help reduce unnecessary driving and bring out additional supplies, allowing the system to return to balance, economists say.
 ''Let prices do a good job of telling people what cars to drive and how much to drive them and how to spend their weekends,'' said Stephen P.A. Brown, director of energy economics at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. ''I don't have any statistics on it, but my understanding was that a lot of people didn't travel this weekend, the roads were a lot less crowded, and $3 gasoline did it.''
 Mr. Levin dismissed that analysis: ''By that logic,'' he said, ''you could raise prices to $10 a gallon and you make sure that people walk.'' Most consumers cannot choose to stop driving, he said, adding that imposing a short-term cap on prices would not hurt oil companies, which are already making record profits.
 State and federal officials say that consumer complaints have soared as they have registered outrage at price increases of 30 to 80 cents a gallon -- sometimes more -- that gas stations instituted literally overnight last week. 
 The Energy Department said yesterday it had created a toll-free number, (800)244-3301, for consumers to lodge complaints about prices. Those complaints will be sent to the Federal Trade Commission, the Justice Department and state attorneys general. Consumers can also complain online at gaswatch.energy.gov.
 ''While we've largely seen the best of American generosity and unity throughout the recovery effort, we recognize that there are some bad actors that may try to take advantage of the situation,'' Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman said in a statement.
 In Florida, Attorney General Charlie Crist said that his office had dispatched 40 investigators to canvas gasoline stations to see if any were violating a price gouging law that went into effect when Governor Jeb Bush imposed a state of emergency in July just before Hurricane Dennis struck Florida. The statute defines gouging as any price increase in ''gross disparity'' to what was being charged before.
 ''It's somewhat subjective, obviously, and intentionally so, I presume,'' Mr. Crist, a Republican who is running for governor, said. ''What we are trying to calculate into the equation are the market forces that are fairly apparent to all of us as it relates to refineries and pipelines and some offshore rigs that have been displaced.''
 Mr. Crist has already subpoenaed Murphy Oil and Colonial Oil Industries, two independent oil companies with retail outlets in Florida. His office is also coordinating investigations with attorneys general from Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana. In the Midwest, Illinois, Wisconsin and Iowa have undertaken similar joint efforts.
 When asked what he thought about economists' view that allowing market forces to set prices served a useful function, Mr. Crist said ''being unfair is never appropriate.''
 ''I am not very sympathetic to the economic theory that it's good for people to charge them through the nose,'' he said.
 Economists say they recognize the appeal of that sentiment but also note that without the pain of higher prices consumers might buy more gasoline and make a bad supply situation worse.
 ''The trade-off is the following: if you keep the price low you have to ration in some other way,'' said Steven Suranovic, an associate professor of economics at George Washington University in Washington. ''And rationing is going to come about in lines forming at gasoline companies and some stations being closed.''
 Other lawmakers and officials suggested the federal and state governments should reduce or suspend taxes on gasoline purchases. The federal government imposes an excise tax of 18.4 cents a gallon on gasoline; the states, on average, add another 21 cents a gallon in excise taxes. At least 11 states also impose sales and other additional taxes.
 On Friday, Governor Sonny Perdue of Georgia suspended that state's 7.5-cent excise tax and 4 percent sales tax on motor fuels. On Monday, Senators Jon Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey, and Charles F. Schumer, Democrat of New York, offered conditional support for removing the federal gasoline taxes.
 Here too, many economists parted with politicians, noting that reducing taxes would also encourage consumers to buy more gasoline. 
 Some analysts said gasoline prices might have already peaked. ''Futures prices have come down and spot prices have gone down, and retail prices have already started to decline,'' said John Felmy, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute.
 But even though driving demands are expected to ease now that the summer vacation period has ended, prices are likely to remain elevated well above pre-hurricane levels for at least the next few weeks or months as energy companies turn to restoring full refinery operations and begin shifting to greater output of heating oil. Imports of gasoline from Europe and improved offshore production should also help increase supplies within the next few weeks.
 Four major refineries are expected to remain out of service for at least the next several weeks. Meanwhile, workers are just beginning to return to offshore platforms -- at least 20 of them missing or adrift -- and starting to examine underwater pipelines to assess the damage to the gulf's intricate energy infrastructure.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The price of gas at a station in Stockbridge, Ga., last week was too high for one customer, who returned to her car without buying. Prices have started to come down, but are still higher than before Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Gene Blythe/Associated Press)(pg. C5)Chart: ''Gas Prices Easing, but Still High''Gasoline futures prices have fallen in the last few days and are now only a bit higher than they were before Hurricane Katrina. But retail prices are still well above their pre-hurricane levels.Graphs show regular unleaded gasoline prices for Atlanta, Detroit, Jackson, Miss. Memphis, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, and New York.*Base refiners' price before cost of distribution, marketing and taxes(Sources by GasBuddy.com
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); GASOLINE MARKETS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FUEL MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); GASOLINE (79%); FUEL TAX (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); WEATHER (78%); SALES TAX (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); WHOLESALERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INTERVIEWS (62%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Frauds and Swindling; Sales Tax; Futures and Options Trading ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); CARL LEVIN (56%) Vikas Bajaj; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



141 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE DISPLACED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Putting Down New Roots on More Solid Ground

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
In her 19 years, all spent living in downtown New Orleans, Chavon Allen had never ventured farther than her bus fare would allow, and that was one trip last year to Baton Rouge. But now that she has seen Houston, she is planning to stay.
 ''This is a whole new beginning, a whole new start. I mean, why pass up a good opportunity, to go back to something that you know has problems?'' asked Ms. Allen, who had been earning $5.15 an hour serving chicken in a Popeyes restaurant.
 For Daphne Barconey, Hurricane Katrina disrupted plans for a grand house to be built on a $150,000 lot that she bought in eastern New Orleans just months ago. 
Now, just eight days after the storm, she has a job in a hospital here, a year's lease on a four-bedroom apartment near the Galleria mall and no plan to return to New Orleans.
 Jason Magee is a golf pro who says now is the time to move away from his native New Orleans. ''I had been looking for an excuse to leave, and this is it,'' he said.
 From across the economic spectrum, whether with heavy hearts or with optimism, the hundreds of thousands of people who fled the wrath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans are already putting down roots in new cities. If even a fraction of them decide not to return, the migration threatens a population crash that could be nearly as devastating to the New Orleans area as the storm itself.
 And city officials know it. After days of asking, then demanding, now practically begging the residents of New Orleans to leave, they have mentally if not publicly changed gears and are devising strategy behind the scenes about how they will accomplish a titanic shift -- in effect, a reverse evacuation.
 Since its population peaked at almost 630,000 in 1960, New Orleans has been steadily losing its people. According to the last census, 445,000 people lived there. But a trickle of people over the decades is quite a different matter from what the city now faces, a sudden population bust that could subtract up to 250,000 people.
 ''I look at the situation, and it brings fear,'' said Rodney Braxton, the city's chief legislative lobbyist. ''If there's one thing that gives me sorrow beyond the loss of life, it's that.''
 Anastasia Loukaitou-Sideris, head of the department of urban planning at the University of California, Los Angeles, underscored the size of the problem. ''If a big chunk of the population doesn't come back, it's going to be horrific for the city,'' she said.
 In Houston alone, close to 1,200 evacuees moved on Tuesday from the Astrodome into apartments with six-month leases.
 ''We know that with each passing day it's going to be harder to bring them back,'' Mr. Braxton said. ''But we are going to fight for them.''
 So far, that fight is only in its infancy, but the first phase is already taking shape. Kenya Smith, the city's chief of intergovernmental relations, said city leaders intended to establish New Orleans-run centers in every area where large numbers of evacuees were known to be living.
 The centers would be clearinghouses for information, providing neighborhood-by-neighborhood details about floodwaters and cleanup efforts, utilities and phone service.
 The centers would also function as registration sites, to keep track of who is where.
 The city intends to establish a toll-free number providing daily updates on information like the condition of the streets and giving residents opportunities to communicate with city officials.
 Beyond that, Mr. Smith said, plans will have to be tailored to the different segments of society.
 ''Large pockets of our people will not have the means to travel great distances to get back, so we know we will have to help with that,'' Mr. Smith said.
 Incentives are being discussed for evacuees who were better off.
 ''We intend to make it as easy as possible and to give them something to come home to,'' Mr. Braxton said, emphasizing the importance of improved infrastructure and storm protections. ''There will have to be some creative legislation and ideas.''
 Mr. Magee, the golfer, says the storm will change the city's demographics.
 ''The middle class is dislodged now, and in six months, they're going to have to have a really compelling reason to move,'' he said.
 Some people faithful to New Orleans will return no matter what. Glen Andrews, a jazz trombonist staying in the Astrodome, on Tuesday echoed the words of Fats Domino, a New Orleans native. 
 ''I'm going home even if it comes down to walking to New Orleans,'' Mr. Andrews said. ''It's my life, and I prefer to be in Louisiana, period. And it doesn't matter what's left there. I'm going to rebuild even if I have to hold a shovel and a horn at the same time.''
 But countless others were dissatisfied with their lives in New Orleans and were already thinking about leaving before the storm hit.
 ''Honestly, it was bad before,'' said Ms. Barconey, a 39-year-old nurse, citing the high poverty rate and poor public education. ''It would have to be better than what it was.''
 Before the hurricane, the city was making itself better for both the middle class and the working class.
 Mayor C. Ray Nagin had started economic development and building programs valued at about $4 billion and had pressed for homeownership in the city's poorest areas.
 In fact, many residents had begun to move back to the city's core around the French Quarter, into newly gentrified areas like the Warehouse District along the Mississippi River and the Faubourg Marigny.
 City officials hope the rebuilding effort will bolster their economy.
 ''One thing New Orleans was lacking was jobs,'' said Cynthia Hedge Morrell, a member of the City Council. ''Now the rebuilding is going to bring a lot of good old-fashioned jobs. Bricklayers, plumbers, woodworkers, contractors. So is it going to be difficult? Yeah, and they might put off moving back for a while. But I do believe people want to come back to their home.''
 Given how she feels now, Ms. Barconey says the makeover will have to be extreme. ''They're going to have to, some kind of way, raise that city above sea level or I'm not going back. I'm serious. I'm not putting myself in that same predicament.''
 If city officials were to take the advice of urban planners, they would already be putting out strong messages that the destruction would not be repeated once new levees and drains were built.
 ''There need to be assurances that where people are rebuilding, no new flooding will happen,'' Dr. Loukaitou-Sideris said, adding that officials need to come together and publicize a master plan for the city.
 ''Cities that lose population eventually decline, but New Orleans is a city with such character, that would be hard to imagine unless people totally lose faith in their government,'' she said.
 After the way she was treated during the evacuation, Ms. Allen says she has lost that faith. Being evacuated from the Superdome, she sobbed through a cascade of tears on a Greyhound bus: ''Goodbye New Orleans. Bye-bye Louisiana.'' 
 Looking back at that moment from a grassy stretch outside the Astrodome on Tuesday, she said she knew even then that goodbye meant forever.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chavon Allen, holding a cousin's baby at the Astrodome in Houston, is among evacuees who say they will not be returning to New Orleans. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. A19)Chart/Map: ''Staying in Shelters''Figures released yesterday by Louisiana officials show the distribution of people in shelters across Louisiana and Texas. About 130,000 people are in shelters in those two states. The numbers do not include people who are staying in hotels or with friends and family.PEOPLE IN RED CROSS SHELTERS, BY STATETexas: 56,387Louisiana: 55,537Mississippi: 18,343Alabama: 5,380Florida: 3,695Oklahoma: 2,352Georgia: 1,134Tennessee: 623Arkansas: 591Arizona: 568Utah: 475West Virginia: 300Colorado: 165North Carolina: 134Other states: 27Total: 145,711San Antonio8,935 in 5 sheltersDallas12,720 in 4 sheltersHarris County26,509 in 25 shelters (includes more than 20,000 in Houston Astrodome)Baton Rouge6,040 in 9 sheltersLafayette6,889 in 2 sheltersMap of Southern United States highlighting number of people in shelters by county.(Sources by Louisiana Dept. of Social Services [map data]
 Red Cross [state data])(pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); POPULATION DECLINE (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); CENSUS (67%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Population Shifts; Floods; Astrodome (Houston); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La); Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



142 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Hopes to Push Its Hybrids Beyond the Niche

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
With Hurricane Katrina pushing American gas prices above $3 a gallon at the pump, Toyota Motor may find itself in the right place at the right time, with a new, half-mile assembly line capable of producing gasoline-electric hybrid Prius cars at the rate of one a minute.
 The line, in a factory in Toyota City, is part of a strategy by Japan's largest company to expand hybrids from a niche in the marketplace (just 5 percent of its American sales now) to mainstream (25 percent of its sales by 2010).
With oil prices in the range of $70 a barrel, Toyota's investment in energy-saving technology may seem an easy bet. But the gamble by Toyota, the pioneer in producing hybrids, still faces a variety of major challenges, among them increased competition, new tax rules that favor its American competitors and a spreading realization among car buyers that not all hybrids offer big savings on gas.
 The increasingly competitive marketplace for hybrids may prove to be the biggest challenge for Toyota, whose goal for early in the next decade is to sell a million hybrids worldwide, including 600,000 to Americans. 
 By 2008, Americans can expect to see 10 hybrid models from Toyota, but also a dozen from such brands as Mercury, Dodge, Chevrolet, Nissan and Porsche, as those automakers realize that fuel efficiency may become an important marketing tool.
 ''I would like to get more hybrids out of our system because I do think it's something that is here to stay,'' William Clay Ford Jr., chairman and chief executive of Ford Motor, told reporters in Detroit on Aug. 23. Last fall, Ford introduced a hybrid version of its Escape sport utility vehicle, the first of several hybrids planned.
 At the same time, the energy bill signed by President Bush on Aug. 8 effectively gave a break to American manufacturers by extending what could be a tax credit of as much as $3,400 per car to purchasers of the first 60,000 hybrids sold by a company. The credit phases out after that. Toyota sold more than 60,000 hybrids in the first six months of this year, so the tax law seems intended to help General Motors and Ford.
 Last year, Ford, the only American carmaker currently offering a hybrid comparable to a Prius, sold 2,566, for a 3 percent share of the United States hybrid market. Toyota's hybrid sales, consisting almost exclusively of the Prius, accounted for 64 percent of the 83,153 new hybrids registered in the United States, according to R.L. Polk & Company, a market research firm. Honda was second, with sales of its Civic taking 31 percent of the market.
 The new tax law ''seems to benefit those who haven't done anything in the area of hybrids until now,'' Christopher Richter, a CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets auto analyst, said in Tokyo. ''And it seems to penalize those who have been pioneers.''
 Although hybrids are to be a pillar of Toyota's strategy, Paul Nolasco, a Toyota spokesman, said the company had ''so far been fortunate not to have to depend on government subsidies or tax breaks to encourage sales.''
 At the same time, some American drivers are wary of paying as much as $5,000 more for a hybrid that may not be a great fuel saver.
 As a result, Toyota is fine-tuning its use of the word hybrid.
 ''We are not marketing them only as highly fuel-efficient vehicles; that is a natural association people have with the word hybrid,'' Mr. Nolasco said, referring largely to the Highlander and the Lexus. ''We are marketing hybrid synergy drive -- great environmental performance and, at the same time, great driving performance.''
 In early August, California regulators started to distinguish between fuel-efficient hybrids and ''muscle'' hybrids, the high-powered versions that save little gasoline. Of the seven hybrid models now on sale in the United States, owners of the Honda Civic, Honda Insight and Toyota Prius can qualify for decals allowing them to drive alone, rather than with two or more passengers, in highway commuter lanes. That reward is not extended to four hybrids not rated as exceptional energy savers: Honda Accord, Ford Escape, Toyota Highlander and Lexus RX 400h.
 But with Americans paying $40 or more for a tank of gasoline, hybrid is a label that carmakers believe will draw buyers into their showrooms. Earlier this year, American demand was so strong that a used 2004 Prius sometimes sold for as much as the window sticker price on a new one.
 In July and August, in fact, the Prius was the model with the biggest jump -- 68 percent -- in Internet information searches on Cars.com, according to the Web site's Consumer Search Index, released last week. 
 ''The challenge is how to expand hybrid technology to more models and more lines,'' Masatami Takimoto, Toyota's executive vice president in charge of advanced power train and engine technology, said at the company's new steel and glass global headquarters. ''My personal desire is to put the hybrid to all the models. But it cannot be done overnight, only step by step.''
 Some drivers have said that the actual mileage of the Prius, Toyota's third-most -popular car in the United States after the Camry and Corolla, often falls short of its federal economy rating. But Mr. Takimoto, responding to that criticism, said, ''The majority of customers say that their second-generation Prius gets much better mileage than their old car.''
 He said Toyota was meeting with officials at the Environmental Protection Agency in the United States to review their gas mileage measurement system. Hybrids get their best mileage in the stop-and-go traffic of cities and suburbs, when they largely run on their electric motors.
 ''A lot depends on how you drive them,'' Kurt Sanger, Japan automotive analyst for Macquarie Securities, said in Tokyo. ''If you gun them at every red light, you are not going to get 44 miles to the gallon.'' He said Toyota needed to ''redouble its educational effort in that regard.''
 With Toyota determined to sell a million hybrid vehicles worldwide, or about 10 percent of its forecast sales for 2010, it is clear that the company is methodically making hybrid vehicles a core of its plans for growth.
 In late June, Katsuaki Watanabe, the president of Toyota, expanded his team of executive vice presidents in charge of high technology to three, from one. Mr. Takimoto, a veteran of 35 years of hybrid research at Toyota, will oversee the hybrid program.
 Flush with $10.5 billion in profits from last year, a record, Toyota is expanding its research and development budget this year by 10 percent, to $6.9 billion, although it would not disclose how much of that was for hybrids. Nor would Japan's second- and third-largest car companies, Nissan Motor and Honda Motor, which are also increasing their research budgets by similar percentages. Honda's will go to $4.65 billion and Nissan's to $4.1 billion. 
 Toyota has about 650 patents on its hybrid technology, the fruits of $800 million reportedly spent to develop the Prius. Toyota licenses its hybrid technology to Nissan and Ford. 
 The company says it has reached the break-even point on its hybrid technology, but Kunihiko Shiohara, chief automotive analyst for Goldman Sachs Japan, said it was impossible to confirm that assertion without knowing how much was spent on research and development.
 Mr. Sanger, of Macquarie Securities, said, ''The benefit of being Toyota is that you are making so much money in so many areas you can take a long-term strategy.'' He added that Toyota could afford to lose money with hybrids while gaining market share and consumer acceptance.
 Nissan is expected to produce a hybrid version of its Altima in 2006. General Motors, the largest carmaker inthe world, and DaimlerChrysler, the fifth-largest carmaker, have signed a deal to develop hybrid vehicle technology jointly.
 Honda, too, is trying to increase sales of its hybrids, although it is not staking out lofty goals for expansion. Sales figures indicate that Honda, the second-biggest Japanese carmaker in the American market, will sell about 42,000 hybrids in the United States this year, largely Civics. Although this will be a 55 percent jump over last year, the total will be small compared with Toyota's forecast hybrid sales in the United States of 140,000. Hybrids account for about 3 percent of Honda's sales in the United States.
 ''We believe the market for hybrid cars will expand in North America,'' Kenzo Suzuki, the executive chief engineer of Honda. ''We want to be ready to expand. Our thinking is the gasoline price will continue to go up. With that in mind, we have to develop hybrid cars.'' 
 Japan's three leading car companies see hybrid cars as a halfway step toward an ultimate goal of selling gasoline-free hydrogen-cell cars. The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan predicts that 50,000 hydrogen-powered vehicles will be on Japan's roads in 2010, and as many as 5 million by 2020.
 Initially, all of Toyota's hybrids were made in Japan. But this fall, Prius production is to start in China, marking the first overseas production of the hybrid. Those cars are for the Chinese market. 
 Next year, Toyota is to start making a hybrid Camry at the company's Kentucky plant. And a Toyota pickup truck plant is to open next year in San Antonio, with some of the trucks produced there expected to be hybrids.
 ''To us, it's not a passing phase but a vital technology for the 21st century,'' Jim Press, president and chief operating officer of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., told a recent auto industry conference in Michigan.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Wednesday about Toyota's strategy to expand sales of hybrid cars referred incompletely to the timing of a tax credit up to $3,400 a car for buyers. It takes effect Jan. 1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Prius at an exhibition hall in Japan. Toyota wants hybrids to make up 10 percent of its global sales by 2010. (Photo by Fuminori Sato for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Sales; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles; Advertising and Marketing; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); R L POLK & CO (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Mercury Division of Ford Motor Co; Dodge Division of Daimlerchrysler Corp; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Nissan Motor Co ; Porsche Ag

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (61%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (91%); ASIA (72%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



143 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: ENVIRONMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Water Returned to Lake Pontchartrain Contains Toxic Material

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Kenneth Chang contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Sept. 6 

 BODY:
While the human and economic toll of Hurricane Katrina continued to mount, New Orleans was beginning to pump back into Lake Pontchartrain the floodwaters that had inundated the city.
 But this is not the same water that flooded the city. What started flowing back into the lake on Monday and continued spilling into it Tuesday is laced with raw sewage, bacteria, heavy metals, pesticides and toxic chemicals, Louisiana officials said on Tuesday.
Whether or not the accelerating pumping of this brew from city streets into coastal waters poses a threat to the ecosystems and fisheries in the brackish bay remains to be seen, the officials said. 
 They added that they could do little more than keep testing and count on the restorative capacity of nature to break down or bury contaminants.
 Though the state of the lake was a prime issue, it was just one of a host of problems identified in the storm-ravaged region on Tuesday by Louisiana and federal environmental officials. 
 For example, the officials said that although two large oil spills, from damaged storage tanks, were under control, thousands of other smaller spills continued to coat floodwaters in New Orleans with a rainbow sheen.
 The first samples of the city's floodwaters were taken on Saturday by the Environmental Protection Agency, and results were expected later in the week, officials said.
 ''It's simply unfeasible'' to try and hold the pumped water somewhere to filter out pollution, said Michael D. McDaniel, the Louisiana secretary of environmental quality.
 ''We have to get the water out of the city or the nightmare only gets worse,'' said Dr. McDaniel, who is a biologist. ''We can't even get in to save people's lives. How can you put any filtration in place?''
 Some scientists outside government tended to agree that the risk of long-term damage to the coastal waters was not high. One reason is that the lake is fed by several rivers and flushed by tides through its link to the Gulf of Mexico. 
 There will probably be an ''initial toxic slug'' entering the lake but that will be diluted and degraded by bacteria, said Frank T. Manheim, a former geochemist for the United States Geological Survey who teaches at George Mason University and was a co-author of a 2002 report on pollution issues in the lake. 
 ''I think the lake has withstood has some big hits,'' he said, including an oxygen-sapping algae bloom after a 1997 flood. 
 He said that most of the long-lived industrial pollutants that can accumulate in organisms and work their way up the food chain have largely been phased out. 
 Overall, though, it was becoming evident that just the flooding of New Orleans had created environmental problems that could take years to resolve, state officials said.
 Each of the estimated 140,000 to 160,000 homes that were submerged is a potential source of fuel, cleaners, pesticides and other potentially hazardous materials found in garages or under kitchen sinks, officials said.
 The E.P.A. on Tuesday estimated that more than 200 sewage treatment plants in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama were affected, with almost all of the plants around New Orleans knocked out of action. 
 Hundreds of small manufacturers or other businesses using chemicals or fuels, many with storage tanks held in place by gravity instead of bolts, are probably leaking various chemicals and oils, officials and independent experts said.
 The E.P.A. and the Department of Health and Human Services issued a joint statement on Tuesday warning people that ''every effort should be made to limit contact with floodwater because of potentially elevated levels of contamination associated with raw sewage and other hazardous substances.''
 The statement urged anyone exposed to the water to wash thoroughly with soap and water and alert medical personnel about open cuts. ''Early symptoms from exposure to contaminated flood water may include upset stomach, intestinal problems, headache and other flu-like discomfort,'' the statement said. Officials pointed to a short list of developments they called encouraging: the two largest known oil spills were declared under control, with one slick drifting out into the Gulf of Mexico and away from the state's ravaged coastline, where it will probably degrade over time.
 As for the lake, ''The wonderful thing about nature is its resilience,'' Dr. McDaniel said. ''The bacterial contaminants will not last a long time in the lake. They actually die off pretty fast. The organic material will degrade with natural processes. Metals will probably fall and be captured in the sediments. Nature does a good job. It just takes awhile.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Crews in New Orleans yesterday repaired a major break in a protective levee breached by Hurricane Katrina and pumped water out of the city. (Photo by Robert Galbraith/Reuters)Chart/Map: ''Draining the City''By yesterday afternoon, a few of the city's 148 pumps and one portable pump were working to clear the floodwaters.PUMPING OUT THE 17TH STREET CANALWith the breach in the levee repaired, workers hope to start pumping water from flooded areas into the canal, where it will drain into Lake Pontchartrain.Steel wall -- The Army Corps has created a 40-foot gap in the center of the dam they built before they repaired the breach. This should cause the strongest current to pass through the canal's center, reducing stress on the levee's side walls.Portable pump -- Began pumping Monday evening.Pump station No. 6 -- Was turned on briefly yesterday. It drains the areas around the station as well as water sent to it from pump station No. 1.Diagram of 17th Street Canal highlighting above mentioned areas.Note: Drawing is not to scale.HOW THE DRAINAGE SYSTEM WORKS1. Storm runoff collects in drainage canals under the streets.2. Pump stations in the city center move the runoff to stations next to large canals or the lake.3. These stations lift the runoff from the city center and water from surrounding areas over the levees.Diagram of New Orleans highlighting pump stations that are operating and not operating, extent of flooding and drainage canals.TYPES OF PUMPS AT STATION NO. 6Screw pumps (old design) Water is pulled up through large intake pipes, where a rotating turbine pushes it over the levee and into the 17th Street Canal.Vertical pumps (new design) Water is sucked into the pump by the submerged end of the pipe and propelled over the levee.(Sources by Army Corps of Engineers
''National Register Evaluation of New Orleans Drainage System
'' ''The Pumps of New Orleans,'' by Sebastian Junger
 Patterson Pump)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); LAKES (91%); HURRICANES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BACTERIA (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (78%); PESTICIDES (76%); FISHERIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BIOLOGY (75%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); OIL SPILLS (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (71%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Lake Pontchartrain (La); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



144 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM ASIA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Why Japan Seems Content to Be Run by One Party

BYLINE: By Norimitsu Onishi

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
The Liberal Democratic Party, which has governed Japan nearly continuously for half a century, appears headed for another victory in the general election on Sunday -- a big one, if polls are correct.
 And this will delay, again, the start of a new political era in which power is transferred regularly from one party to another, as it is in other democracies.
 Japan's democracy is East Asia's oldest, but its ruling party has held power almost as long as the Communist parties in China and North Korea. Younger democracies in South Korea and Taiwan have already experienced changes in ruling parties, and the underpinnings of democracies, from vibrant civil societies to strong, independent news media, appear to be flourishing there more than they are here. 
 Since calling an early election last month, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has shrewdly refashioned the image of the Liberal Democrats into the party of reform by fielding telegenic women as candidates and portraying opponents of his signature postal privatization bill as reactionaries. The main opposition Democratic Party, whose gains in recent years now face erosion, has looked on helplessly.
 In the past, when issues were rarely raised in campaigns, politicians ran simply by promising favors to supporters, said Masayasu Kitagawa, a former Liberal Democratic lawmaker, independent governor of Mie Prefecture and now a professor at Waseda University.
 ''The relationship was that of patron and client,'' Mr. Kitagawa said. ''This was not actually democracy, but rather the opposite of democracy.''
 To encourage political accountability and voter awareness, Mr. Kitagawa has been the leading proponent of election ''manifestoes'' detailing parties' agendas. The word and concept was little understood in the general election two years ago, but it has taken root this time, with both main parties proffering their manifestoes.
 ''I'd be satisfied if the introduction of manifestoes made Japanese realize that what they had believed to be democracy was an illusion,'' he said.
 The illusion was formed in 1955 with the foundation of the Liberal Democratic Party, which focused single-mindedly on turning Japan into an economic power. With strong support from the United States and the powerful bureaucracy, as well as effective pork-barrel politics, the party's grip on power went unshaken for decades.
 Internal factions vied for power, but decisions were made and some prime ministers even chosen in backroom deals. Because of the cold war and Japan's military dependence on the United States, the longtime opposition, the Socialists, were never taken seriously.
 Voters feared that ''the friendly Japan-U.S. relationship would be destroyed and Japan would become poor once more if the L.D.P. government collapsed and the Socialists came to power,'' said Eiji Oguma, an associate professor of policy management at Keio University.
 A split inside the party led to a 10-month ouster from power in 1993. During that brief period, however, a coalition of minor parties pushed through far-reaching reforms, including changing multiseat districts into single-seat ones, that would eventually weaken the dominance of the Liberal Democrats.
 The present main opposition Democratic Party, which was formed in 1998, has been gaining voters in recent years, especially in urban areas. But the half-century rule by a single party has stunted the growth of Japanese democracy, experts say, and its effects are still being felt today.
 Civil society remains weak. Although private organizations focusing on welfare and international aid have mushroomed in recent years, those delving into delicate issues, like human rights, freedom of information and the workings of government, wield little influence. Japanese feel little personal connection with their country's democracy, said Yukiko Miki, executive director of Information Clearinghouse Japan, a private group that fights to gain access to government-held information.
 ''Japanese citizens are ultimate free riders,'' Ms. Miki said. ''Support from citizens is necessary to form a base for democracy, but Japanese people don't seem to feel they are the ones who should support civil society.''
 The Liberal Democrats' grip on power has also limited the dissemination of information. For instance, the Internet has raised interest in elections elsewhere and was widely credited with helping propel South Korea's president, Roh Moo Hyun, to power in 2003. But here in one of the world's most wired countries, election law bars Web sites from promoting candidates for a specific election and candidates from renewing their home pages during the 12-day campaign period.
 The Liberal Democrats have maintained the restrictions because their core supporters tend to be older and are not likely to be heavy Internet users. 
 Yoshito Hori, an entrepreneur, recently created the YES! Project, a Web site that encourages young Japanese to vote and discuss politics. ''By using the Internet, you can reach people in their 20's to their early 40's, people who were uninterested in politics,'' Mr. Hori said. 
 With no history of power alternation, the mass media tend to stick to the Liberal Democratic Party's line. In this election, the press has ignored issues like Mr. Koizumi's policy toward Asian countries or his deployment of troops to Iraq that would likely hurt the party at the ballot box. (The opposition Democratic Party has said it would withdraw Japanese troops from Iraq and repair relations with its Asian neighbors.) Since April 2004, no major Japanese news organization has sent a journalist to cover the Japanese troops in Samawa, in southern Iraq.
 Just as these pillars of Japanese democracy tend to be tenuous, experts doubt the soundness of the main Democratic Party opposition. The party, made up of former Liberal Democrats, Socialists and other groups, famously lacks unity and could disintegrate if it loses badly. 
 But Park Cheol Hee, an expert in Japanese politics at Seoul National University, said a more mature democracy was set to emerge here. 
 ''This is the last stage of one-party rule,'' Mr. Park said. ''I don't think the L.D.P. will rule for another 50 years -- possibly another 5 or 10. The Democratic Party might fail this time, but they will try again. This will eventually produce a competitive, two-party system and lead Japan to a true democracy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Junichiro Koizumi, the prime minister, with a candidate from his party. He's expected to win handsomely on Sunday. (Photo by Toshiyuki Aizawa/Reuters)
 Campaign posters of the Democratic Party, the government's main opposition. (Photo by Issei Kato/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); COLD WAR (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) KINKI, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%) Japan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



145 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Annan Failed to Curb Corruption in Iraq's Oil-for-Food Program, Investigators Report 

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
A yearlong investigation has concluded that Secretary General Kofi Annan failed to curb corruption and mismanagement at the United Nations, but it did not find evidence to support charges that he improperly influenced the scandal-tainted oil-for-food program.
 ''His sins were ones of omission basically; there were things that he might well have done and should have done that he didn't do,'' a senior investigator said Tuesday.
 Typical of the lapses, the investigator said, was Mr. Annan's failure to look more thoroughly into the activities of his son, Kojo Annan, to see if his working for a company that received an oil-for-food contract posed a conflict of interest for his father. 
 The committee, led by Paul A. Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank, found no evidence that Kofi Annan knew about the contract, but it found instances where Kojo Annan did try to influence it, and in general exploited his father's name, the investigator said. 
 In one incident, he said, Kojo Annan bought a new Mercedes using his father's name, which yielded him a diplomatic discount and enabled him to import the vehicle to Ghana without paying import duty.
 The report, to be released on Wednesday, also details an instance in which Mr. Annan's predecessor, Boutros Boutros-Ghali of Egypt, was the target of an effort to exploit the oil-for-food program.
 It says that an Iraqi-American businessman, Samir Vincent, and a Korean lobbyist, Tongsun Park, tried to pass $1 million to Mr. Boutros-Ghali but that there was no evidence that Mr. Boutros-Ghali had received or agreed to receive the money.
 The report says that Iraq also tried to secure another high level contact at the United Nations in 1997 when Mr. Park invested $1 million of Iraqi money in a company controlled by Maurice Strong, a Canadian entrepreneur then serving as Mr. Annan's coordinator for United Nations reform. The committee said it found no evidence that Mr. Strong himself was involved.
 Mr. Vincent pleaded guilty earlier this year to federal charges of illegal lobbying for Iraq. Mr. Park, who was also charged, is believed to be in South Korea. Mr. Strong stepped aside from his post as Mr. Annan's special envoy to North Korea because of past associations with Mr. Park, and the United Nations announced in July that his contract would not be renewed.
 Mr. Volcker is to present the results of his $34 million inquiry to Mr. Annan and the Security Council in an open hearing on Wednesday.
 The general conclusion of the 860-page report, the fourth and most definitive from Mr. Volcker's panel, is that the United Nations is inefficient, over-politicized, corrupt and in desperate need of immediate repair.
 ''The inescapable conclusion from the committee's work is that the United Nations organization needs thoroughgoing reform -- and it needs it urgently,'' says the report's five-page preface, which was made public by The Associated Press. 
 The report comes a week before more than 170 presidents and prime ministers are due at the United Nations to update goals from the 2000 millennium summit conference and to approve sweeping changes to the way the United Nations is run.
 The much disputed $64 billion oil-for-food program was intended to ease the effects of sanctions on the 27 million Iraqis by supplying them with food and medicine in exchange for letting Saddam Hussein export oil. But its manipulation by Mr. Hussein and illicit profits it generated for the Iraqi government caused it to become a lightning rod for critics of the United Nations, and provoked calls from Republican lawmakers in Washington for Mr. Annan's resignation.
 Mr. Annan's spokesman, Stephane Dujarric of France, said Tuesday that Mr. Annan intended to fill out his term, which ends in late 2006.
 The report, while criticizing Mr. Annan, acknowledges that the United Nations Charter gives him the responsibility of being the chief administrative officer without the resources to meet the demands.
 ''Whatever the founders had in mind, the secretary general -- any secretary general -- has not been chosen for his managerial or administrative skills, nor has he been provided with a structure and instruments conducive to strong executive oversight and control,'' the preface says.
 In an allusion to the widespread cronyism at the United Nations, it says that a secretary general must see to it that personnel choices are based on ''professional competence'' rather than on ''narrow political interests of member states.''
 ''The reality is that the secretary general has come to be viewed as chief diplomatic and political agent of the United Nations,'' the preface says. ''The present secretary general is widely respected for precisely those qualities. In these turbulent times, those responsibilities tend to be all-consuming. The record amply reflects consequent administrative failings.''
 The investigator who described the report said the committee had produced conclusive figures showing that the amount of Mr. Hussein's profits from kickbacks and surcharges connected to the oil-for-food program amounted to $10.99 billion, while smuggling amounted to $1.8 billion.
 The preface said the committee had found ''instances of illicit, unethical and corrupt behavior'' among lower ranking United Nations staff members in the field, but the investigator said the report would not detail it.
 ''You had thousands of new employees over there, hired on the spot without much vetting, with transactions made only in cash,'' he said. ''You're living in a corrupt environment, you're pushed by political pressures, but whether senior officials are involved is another question. We're neutral on that. We have not been able to pin any of it down.''
 According to the preface, ''wholesale corruption'' took place among private companies that were manipulated by Mr. Hussein's government. The committee plans a separate report next month detailing the companies and the abuses.
 In the only instances of corruption that the Volcker committee has uncovered at headquarters, Benon V. Sevan of Cyprus, the former executive director of the program, was accused last month of banking at least $147,000 in kickbacks and a procurement officer, Aleksandr V. Yakovlev of Russia, was found to have solicited a bribe, unsuccessfully, from a program contractor.
 Given the United Nations' international responsibilities, it is critical that it combat corruption, the preface said.
 ''Corrosive corruption, private and public, has been far too common, not least in the member states in which the United Nations has programs of economic and humanitarian assistance,'' the preface said.
 Standing in the way of this, it said, was the ''absence of a strong organizational ethic, an ethic that should permeate at its leadership and staff if the United nations is to command the respect upon which its work depends.''
 The investigator said he had sometimes asked himself whether the charges of corruption had been exaggerated.
 ''You can say, what the hell did you expect in a program this complicated, an international organization, political differences, it's kind of run of the mill and after all, the program was kind of successful getting food in there, maintaining sanctions,'' he said.
 ''But then another point of view is that the U.N. is the U.N., and they better try to meet very high standards because, with the sheer corruption in this world, maybe a good example by the U.N., considering all the corrupt places they have to work in, would help.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about the findings of the independent panel that investigated the United Nations' oil-for-food program in Iraq referred incorrectly to kickbacks and surcharges that it said amounted to $10.99 billion in illicit profits for Saddam Hussein. They occurred outside the program; the payments were not connected to it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary General Kofi Annan at a meeting in London yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); BRIBERY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); LOBBYING (73%); ETHICS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (66%) Oil-for-Food Program (Un); Ethics; Bribery

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) Warren Hoge; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; Kojo Annan; Paul A Volcker; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (76%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (75%); GHANA (70%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



146 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE PORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Ad-Libbing Many Routes, Ships Return To the River

BYLINE: This article was reported by Jeff Bailey, Alexei Barrionuevo and Charles V. Bagli, and was written by Mr. Bailey.; Ken Belson contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
It may be in fits and starts, but shipping in the gulf region is coming back to life.
 In the last few days, ships laden with American grain have been steaming out of the mouth of the Mississippi River headed for overseas markets. And dozens of vessels full of imported goods have been steering away from New Orleans and the harbors of other damaged cities to unload at alternate ports eager for the business.
At a staging area near the river's entrance, called the Southwest Pass, the number of idled ships dwindled to 19 yesterday morning from 86 about a week earlier, the Coast Guard said, as some were rerouted to ports in Texas and elsewhere and others were able to sail upriver to drop off and take on cargo. 
 The rapid adjustments augur well for the nation's economy, showing how businesses scrambled to preserve the value of cargo. But the quick recovery so far does not suggest the end of logistics problems from Hurricane Katrina, shipping specialists said. 
 Costs will inevitably rise as some goods are shifted from cheaper barges to more expensive rail and truck transport methods. Skilled workers are scarce in some ports, and at whatever number, they are often being asked to handle more goods. High fuel prices continue to threaten efforts to ship cargoes. 
 A critical matter is that grain coming to harvest over the next few weeks could still overwhelm what remains of the Mississippi River export system unless repairs are made quickly, including bringing the Port of New Orleans back into operation. It remained closed yesterday, as the port's operators sent out a plea for diesel fuel to run generators that could help get its giant cranes working again.
 Still, the Mississippi River -- from south of New Orleans, north to Baton Rouge -- is home to many grain storage elevators and other shipping sites that continue to operate. The Coast Guard on Monday increased the draft, or depth of a ship's hull, allowed on the lower Mississippi to 39 feet, from 35 feet, allowing the passage of bigger vessels. 
 ''Nineteen ships is not a whole lot of ships,'' said John Martin, an economic consultant in Lancaster, Pa., to port operators across the country and an adviser to the Port of New Orleans. ''Look at how quickly and efficiently these ports were able to redeploy and get that queue down.''
 Indeed, by late last week, stevedores in Houston were unloading 3,000 tons of rubber and timber from the Indotrans Flores, a freighter diverted from New Orleans and Pascagoula, Miss. A shipload of rubber intended for New Orleans headed to Morehead City, N.C., instead, and a ship carrying steel changed course to Wilmington, N.C. Both North Carolina ports have good rail connections.
 New Orleans is the largest bulk-steel importing port, and concerns that those imports would be halted are dissipating somewhat. Man Ferrostaal, a steel-trading company in Houston, is rerouting three ships destined for New Orleans to Houston.
 From Houston, the steel goes on barges through the Intercoastal Waterway past New Orleans and up the Mississippi to Nashville, St. Louis and Chicago, according to Ferrostaal's chief operating officer, John D. Foster. The detour adds 60 percent to the transportation costs. Still, that is cheaper than rail, which would double the cost, or by truck, which would triple it, Mr. Foster said. 
 Freeport, Tex., which normally splits the business of importing bananas with the storm-disabled port at Gulfport, Miss., is now taking all the imports for Chiquita and Dole, said Phyllis Saathoff, managing director of the port. That means 800 big containers a week, up from 400, requiring temporary generators to power the cooling units, as well as a quick expansion of ground space. 
 Port officials did not hesitate to make quick investments, even though the increased quantities of bananas could disappear when Gulfport is repaired.
 ''It's a good strategic long-term investment anyway,'' Ms. Saathoff said, certain of the port's expansion potential. ''No matter how much concrete we pour or limestone we put down, we seem to find cargo to put on it.''
 The port at Mobile, Ala., damaged in the hurricane but up and running now, is hoping to pick up some business, said James K. Lyons, chief executive of the state's port authority. He expects some corn to arrive by rail this week for export. And even though the port was running close to capacity before the hurricane, it will consider signing long-term deals with shippers who need a new home. 
 A $300 million expansion is 18 months from being ready -- and maybe longer, Mr. Lyons said, because piles for a new pier are stuck in Pass Christian, Miss., and the port there is not operating. ''We can't turn on a dime,'' he said.
 Detours to other ports notwithstanding, most crucial is sending grain down the Mississippi and out into the Gulf of Mexico on its normal and cost-efficient route overseas. And that is beginning to happen.
 Matt Boucree, vice president for operations at the Blue Water Shipping Company, arranged a shipload of grain that sailed Monday from an elevator at Convent, La., just north of New Orleans. 
 Referring to the Archer Daniels Midland Company, the giant grain and soybean merchant, Mr. Boucree said, ''We understand A.D.M. loaded'' three ships at elevators north of New Orleans and sent the ships into the gulf.
 Sending grain overseas allows port operators to empty barges that can then return to the Midwest to pick up another load, particularly as the harvest nears. A single barge operator, Ingram Barge, has 350 of the vessels sitting north of the Port of New Orleans, 150 more than normal for this time of year. Each day, a 30-barge tow arrives, the equivalent of 50,000 tons of cargo, or 2,000 semis.
 ''We are at the point today where there are no barge parking places,'' said David Sehrt, chief operating officer of Ingram. He has some waiting near St. Louis. On a flyover, Mr. Sehrt said, he saw hundreds of stranded barges near New Orleans, including dozens from Archer Daniels Midland. But he saw few being loaded onto oceangoing vessels.
 Ed Peterson, executive director of the Louisiana River Pilots Association, said his members were steering ships in and out of the river as fast as they could. Traffic is limited to daylight hours, with 70 percent of the navigation aids damaged or missing, by the Coast Guard's count. 
 ''You don't know what's in the river as far as sunken vessels,'' he said. ''A lot of barges are missing.''
 Still, on Monday Mr. Peterson said that the movement of oceangoing ships with grain appeared to be picking up. ''Ten vessels right now southbound coming out of the stretch between New Orleans and Baton Rouge,'' he said.
 And the Mosaic Company, a big fertilizer maker with two plants near New Orleans, said enough barges were unloading their grain to carry fertilizer back up the river. 
 ''It's going better than expected,'' said Corrine Ricard, vice president for the supply chain. ''The grain terminals are starting to operate.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An elevator loaded with soybeans for Japan at Port of Mobile, Ala. (Photo by Ken Belson/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 With Gulfport, Miss,. out of operation, the Port of Freeport, Tex., these days is handling twice its share of bananas, or 800 container loads a week. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of New Orleans highlighting shipping ports. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (89%); HURRICANES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); RUBBER & SILICONE (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); RIVERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (77%); WEATHER (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); TRUCKING (74%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); DIESEL FUEL (65%) Ships and Shipping ; Stevedoring; International Trade and World Market; Grain; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Barges and Scows; Railroads; Trucks and Trucking; Ships and Shipping ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shutdowns (Institutional); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Ships and Shipping 

ORGANIZATION: Coast Guard (US)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey; Alexei Barrionuevo; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (52%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Mississippi River; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



147 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; APPRECIATIONS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Pierre Omidyar's Perfect Store Turns 10

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
Over Labor Day weekend 10 years ago, a programmer named Pierre Omidyar took a chance on an odd little Web site called AuctionWeb. Most of Silicon Valley spent the summer of 1995 dreaming up ways to use a newfangled technology called the Internet. This was his: an auction site that let anyone list an item or place a bid. He wrote the code in his spare bedroom and posted it on his personal home page, which had a whimsical domain name: www.ebay.com.
 Mr. Omidyar wanted to create a perfect market, something economists had only imagined, where everything sold for its ideal price. He was also a populist. It looked to Mr. Omidyar, who had a ponytail and wore Birkenstocks, as if the freewheeling Internet was being taken over by well-financed dot-coms. He wanted to ''give the individual the power to be a producer as well as a consumer.''
Everyone told him that strangers wouldn't trade online with strangers, particularly in a format as unwieldy as an auction. But first the techies came, buying and selling computer parts. Then the collectors came -- at one point, more than 6 percent of all sales were for Beanie Babies. Then everyone came. EBay, with 64 million active users, is on track to sell more than $40 billion in goods this year.
 I interviewed Mr. Omidyar a few years ago when I was writing ''The Perfect Store: Inside eBay,'' and he waxed nostalgic about the early days, when eBay was a true community. Users chatted endlessly on its message boards, and when they had problems they sent e-mail to Pierre@ebay.com. One of the greatest innovations was the Feedback Forum. Buyers and sellers rated each other after a transaction, and the ratings were compiled and placed after users' names. EBay became a virtual small town, where people were known by their reputations.
 Mr. Omidyar eventually took eBay public, which meant investment bankers and feverish growth. It's a lot bigger and more commercial today, but elements of the founding vision clearly remain. EBay is still egalitarian: mom and pops and corporations are largely treated the same. The Feedback Forum is still going strong. And then there is the famous multicolored eBay logo: it was intended, its designer told me, to evoke a 60's sensibility -- to have ''a little bit of the ponytail about it.''
 EBay is a spectacular success, and not only because Mr. Omidyar is now worth $10 billion. It may not be a perfect market, but it has revolutionized pricing. The ''value'' of many things today is what they sell for on eBay. It has also given ordinary people an economic foothold online. Selling on eBay is the primary or secondary income for an estimated 724,000 Americans. EBay also did one thing Mr. Omidyar was not thinking about 10 years ago: it proved that even in these daunting times, one person with a good idea can still change the world. ADAM COHEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); WEB SITES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); DOMAIN NAMES (73%); ONLINE TRADING (58%) Auctions; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: EBAY INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: Ebay Inc

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (97%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (97%)

PERSON: Adam Cohen; Pierre Omidyar

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



148 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Preventing AIDS

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The damage caused by lowering or canceling funds from the United States Agency for International Development for H.I.V. prevention in Central America may be even worse than Helene Cooper describes in ''What? Condoms Can Prevent AIDS? No Way!'' (Editorial Observer, Aug. 26).
In Central America and Mexico, there is an urgent need to increase prevention efforts for high-risk groups, because our epidemic is highly concentrated among them. 
 In the ABC model, the A (abstinence) and B (be faithful) elements have a probability of working within the context of generalized epidemics, where everyone is at the same high level of risk of H.I.V. infection. 
 But those strategies are completely useless when the purpose is to diminish H.I.V. transmission rates in the context of prostitution. In that reality, we need the C -- condoms -- and we still need initiatives like those developed with American funds by Population Services International/Mexico and the Pan American Social Marketing Organization to prevent H.I.V. from spreading from high-risk groups to the general population. 

Jorge A. Saavedra
Director General, Natl. Center for H.I.V./AIDS Prevention and Control
Mexico City, Aug. 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Foreign Aid

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) Agency for International Development (Aid)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: Jorge A Saavedra; Helene Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (56%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (72%) Mexico; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



149 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Tiptoeing Across the Border

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: VAUGHAN, Ontario 

 BODY:
The new Vaughan Mills mall in this fast-growing Toronto suburb -- the first enclosed mall to open in Canada since 1990 -- houses many familiar American retail names. Several of them are brands that have ventured north of the border only in the last five years, including the Children's Place, Tommy Bahama, Build-a-Bear Workshop, Linens 'n Things and Old Navy. 
 The enormous Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, where Kodiak bears stand guard and customers can choose among hundreds of fishing poles, is the first store in Canada for the sporting goods chain, which is based in Springfield, Mo.
 American retailers have been entering the Canadian market in increasing numbers in recent years, a trend fueled by pressure to expand, the growing saturation of markets in the United States and easing trade restrictions after adoption of the North American Free Trade Agreement. 
 Still, retailers like Ann Taylor and Bed, Bath & Beyond, which are staples of other shopping and entertainment malls owned by the Mills Corporation in places like Sunrise, Fla., and Ontario, Calif., are nowhere to be found at Vaughan Mills, or at any other Canadian mall, for that matter.
 About 200 American brands are now available in Canada, about one-fourth of them newcomers since 2000, according to Robert J. Boyle, the director of market research for Ivanhoe Cambridge of Montreal, co-owner of Vaughan Mills. (Ivanhoe Cambridge is the real estate arm of Caisse de depot et placement du Quebec, the country's biggest pension fund manager.) European brands like H.&M., Sephora and Zara are also rapidly making inroads here, just as they are in the United States. 
 But Mr. Boyle estimates that only about a third of the top 100 American brands have made the trip north. Even though Toronto is a mere hour away from New York by air, its leading malls -- Yorkdale Shopping Center, on the outskirts of the city, and Eaton Centre, in the heart of downtown -- have retained a Canadian flavor, with mostly home-grown chains.
 Some American retailers do very well at the big-box outdoor shopping centers that began popping up in Canadian suburbs in the late 1990's. At RioCan, a real estate investment trust based in Toronto, which owns 196 strip malls and big-box shopping properties across Canada (30 of them built in a joint venture with the Kimco Realty Corporation, a REIT based in New Hyde Park, N.Y.), the leading revenue-producer is Wal-Mart. Three other American companies are among the top 10, including A.&P. (which has been in Canada since the 1920's); the TJX Companies, the parent of the off-price retailer T.J. Maxx (whose Canadian divisions are Winners and Home Sense); and Staples. But Target does not operate in Canada, and Kmart had stores in Canada but closed them. 
 Loblaws, the dominant supermarket chain, has been able so far to keep Wal-Mart from opening its superstores in Canada by creating a new model known as Loblaws Real Canadian Superstore, said Jean Lambert, a Quebecer who manages global research for the International Council of Shopping Centers in New York.
 Because of its proximity and its economic prosperity, Canada might seem to be a natural market for American retailers. But real estate specialists say many have chosen to stay away for reasons both geographical and cultural.
 With most of Canada's 32.8 million people concentrated in a few urban areas that are far from one another -- about a third of the country's population lives in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver -- distribution can be a real headache. 
 ''The biggest issue for U.S. retailers,'' said Blair Hodgson, a retail real estate broker at a Toronto company, Oberfeld Snowcap, ''is, Why stretch so much geographically to have five stores, when I could put five stores in a much smaller area in California?''
 Canada also has much less shopping center space than its neighbor to the south -- about 12.5 square feet per capita, compared with about 20 square feet in the United States, retail specialists say. The pace of new construction is slower in Canada because it is more difficult to get property rezoned for commercial use, financing is less widely available and the pool of potential tenants is smaller, said Edward Sonshine, the president and chief executive of RioCan. In addition, he said, ''the opposition to urban sprawl is more advanced here.'' 
 Other retail specialists say there is less chance of overbuilding because pension funds, the leading mall developers in Canada, tend to be more cautious than the publicly traded companies that own most malls in the United States.
 Cultural differences between the two countries go far beyond the language requirements that apply to Quebec, where the staff must be bilingual and labels must be printed in French as well as English. In part because they are so heavily taxed, Canadians have less disposable income than Americans. ''We're much more middle-income earners,'' Mr. Boyle said. ''We're very price conscious, very value conscious.'' 
 Canadians also dine out less frequently, so mall operators have not attracted the restaurant chains like P.F. Chang's or the Cheesecake Factory that in the United States are increasingly replacing department stores as anchor tenants, said Tony Grossi, an executive vice president of Cadillac Fairview, a prominent mall operator owned by the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board.
 Laurence C. Siegel, the president and chief executive of Mills, points out that many Canadians do their shopping downtown rather than at suburban malls. ''You have more vibrant center cities in Canada than you do here,'' he said.
 For Mills, a company that likes to mix full-price and outlet retailers, opening in Canada has posed some challenges. Operating costs, including taxes, are higher at Vaughan than at other Mills properties, which has served to deter some off-price retailers, said Ross Nussbaum, a REIT analyst at Banc of America Securities. 
 Mr. Siegel said that Mills and Ivanhoe Cambridge hope eventually to open additional malls in Montreal, Calgary and Vancouver. Having a bigger presence in the country may make it easier for the company to attract discount retailers like Burlington Coat Factory, which backed out of plans to open its first Canadian store at Vaughan Mills. 
 Do Canadians prefer to buy Canadian? Developers and brokers who are aggressively pursuing American chains point out that American Eagle Outfitters does very well in Canada.
 But they say that Canada, in an effort to preserve its cultural heritage, is not likely to allow a Barnes & Noble to compete with its own Indigo Books and Music chain, whose stores have a section called ''Why the World Needs More Canada.''
 And when Best Buy bought a well-established electronics retailer called Future Shock -- a typical way for United States chains to enter the Canadian market -- it did not change the name of the stores. 
 Mr. Sonshine recalled the outcry last year when it was rumored that Target would buy Canada's venerable Hudson Bay Company, the owner of the Bay, a department store. But he said the public did not show its loyalty by rushing to the stores. ''The Bay is as Canadian as you can get,'' he said, ''but their sales went down, anyway.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A Square Feet article in Business Day yesterday about United States retailers that have opened stores in Canada misstated the name of an electronics company acquired by Best Buy. It is Future Shop, not Future Shock.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, based in Missouri, has opened a store in the Vaughan Mills mall in suburban Toronto, left, where the Children's Place also has a spot. (Photographs by Steve Payne for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); TRENDS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TEA (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: KIMCO REALTY CORP (84%); CAISSE DE DEPOT & PLACEMENT DU QUEBEC (82%); TJX COS INC (60%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (57%); BUILD-A-BEAR WORKSHOP INC (57%); BASS PRO SHOPS INC (57%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (56%); T J MAXX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co of America; Tjx Companies

TICKER: KIM (NYSE) (84%); TJX (NYSE) (60%); BBW (NYSE) (57%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (60%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (60%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (57%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (57%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (56%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



150 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: COSTS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Hurricane's Toll Is Likely to Reshape Bush's Economic Agenda 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Hurricane Katrina is about to blow a hole in the federal budget, and it is already jeopardizing President Bush's agenda for cutting taxes and reducing the deficit.
 Administration officials told Republican lawmakers on Tuesday that relief efforts were running close to $700 million a day, and that the total federal cost could reach as high as $100 billion.
That would be many times the cost of any other natural disaster or even the $21 billion that was allocated for New York City after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 The expenses would come just as Mr. Bush and Republican leaders are trying to push through spending cuts for programs like Medicaid and student loans, extend about $70 billion in expiring tax cuts, and reduce the federal budget deficit. 
 ''There is no question but that the costs of this are going to exceed the costs of New York City after 9/11 by a significant multiple,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 
 White House officials are planning to ask Congress as early as Wednesday for a second round of emergency financing, perhaps as much as $40 billion, but they said even that would be a ''stopgap'' measure while they assessed the full costs.
 Though it is still too early for accurate estimates, the costs are all but certain to wreak havoc with Mr. Bush's plans to reduce the federal deficit and possibly his plans to extend tax cuts.
 On Monday, the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, postponed plans to push for a vote on repealing the estate tax, a move that would benefit the wealthiest 1 percent of households, costing more than $70 billion a year once fully put in effect.
 House and Senate leaders are also grappling with their pre-hurricane plan to propose $35 billion in spending cuts over the next five years for entitlement programs like Medicaid, student loans, food stamps and welfare payments.
 Those cuts could suddenly prove politically unpalatable to Mr. Bush and Republican lawmakers, who are trying to rebuff criticism that the federal government shortchanged the hurricane's poorest victims.
 Congressional Democrats are already using the hurricane as a reason to block Republican tax and spending plans.
 ''Democrats think this is the worst possible time to be cutting taxes for those at the very top and cutting the social safety net of those at the very bottom, and adding $35 billion,'' said Thomas S. Kahn, staff director for Democrats on the House Budget Committee.
 Budget analysts said the magnitude and unique characteristics of the hurricane made it unlike any previous natural disaster, resulting in a variety of extraordinary costs:
 Shelter for as many as a million people for months.
 A potentially high share of uninsured property losses that stem from flooding, which is not covered by private insurers. 
 Education and health care for hundreds of thousands forced to live outside their home states. 
 ''Katrina could easily become a milestone in the history of the federal budget,'' said Stanley Collender, a longtime budget analyst here. ''Policies that never would have been considered before could now become standard.''
 Indeed, there were signs on Tuesday that Republicans and Democrats had already begun to compete with each other over who might be willing to spend more.
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate Democratic leader, predicted on Tuesday that costs could total $150 billion. Top Republican lawmakers, meanwhile, have begun to call for ''stimulus'' measures to buck up the overall economy.
 White House officials contend that costs attributable to the hurricane are separate from Mr. Bush's underlying budget goals, which include cutting the deficit in half over the next four years and permanently extending most of the tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003.
 Budget analysts also note that natural disasters are essentially one-time costs that do not affect the government's long-run fiscal health.
 ''We can afford $100 billion -- one time,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''What we cannot afford is $100 billion in additional spending year after year.''
 The problem is that, even without the hurricane, the federal government's underlying fiscal health is in poor shape. In July, the White House predicted that surging tax revenues would reduce the deficit this year to $333 billion from $412 billion in 2004.
 But many analysts believe that the tax surge was largely a one-time event and that overall government spending is still poised to climb rapidly as a result of the war in Iraq, the Medicare prescription drug benefit and the growing number of baby boomers who will soon reach retirement age.
 Before the hurricane, House and Senate Republicans were preparing to work out $35 billion in spending cuts over the next five years that would trim Medicaid payments by $10 billion and make smaller cuts in student loan programs, farm programs, food stamps, housing and cash assistance to poor families.
 Under the budget resolution that Congress passed this spring, Congressional committees are supposed to spell out the proposed cuts by Sept. 16. House and Senate leaders had been planning to pass the cuts within a week or so after that. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the financial impact of Hurricane Katrina on the federal budget omitted the last three words of a quotation from Thomas S. Kahn, staff director for Democrats on the House Budget Committee. He said, ''Democrats think this is the worst possible time to be cutting taxes for those at the very top and cutting the social safety net for those at the very bottom, adding $35 billion to the deficit.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); HURRICANES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); MEDICAID (88%); DISASTER PLANNING (79%); DISASTER RELIEF (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); TERRORISM (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (68%); INSURANCE (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JUDD GREGG (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Louisiana; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



151 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Osama and Katrina

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
On the day after 9/11, I was in Jerusalem and was interviewed by Israeli TV. The reporter asked me, ''Do you think the Bush administration is up to responding to this attack?'' As best I can recall, I answered: ''Absolutely. One thing I can assure you about these guys is that they know how to pull the trigger.''
 It was just a gut reaction that George Bush and Dick Cheney were the right guys to deal with Osama. I was not alone in that feeling, and as a result, Mr. Bush got a mandate, almost a blank check, to rule from 9/11 that he never really earned at the polls. Unfortunately, he used that mandate not simply to confront the terrorists but to take a radically uncompassionate conservative agenda -- on taxes, stem cells, the environment and foreign treaties -- that was going nowhere before 9/11, and drive it into a post-9/11 world. In that sense, 9/11 distorted our politics and society. 
Well, if 9/11 is one bookend of the Bush administration, Katrina may be the other. If 9/11 put the wind at President Bush's back, Katrina's put the wind in his face. If the Bush-Cheney team seemed to be the right guys to deal with Osama, they seem exactly the wrong guys to deal with Katrina -- and all the rot and misplaced priorities it's exposed here at home. 
 These are people so much better at inflicting pain than feeling it, so much better at taking things apart than putting them together, so much better at defending ''intelligent design'' as a theology than practicing it as a policy. 
 For instance, it's unavoidably obvious that we need a real policy of energy conservation. But President Bush can barely choke out the word ''conservation.'' And can you imagine Mr. Cheney, who has already denounced conservation as a ''personal virtue'' irrelevant to national policy, now leading such a campaign or confronting oil companies for price gouging?
 And then there are the president's standard lines: ''It's not the government's money; it's your money,'' and, ''One of the last things that we need to do to this economy is to take money out of your pocket and fuel government.'' Maybe Mr. Bush will now also tell us: ''It's not the government's hurricane -- it's your hurricane.'' 
 An administration whose tax policy has been dominated by the toweringly selfish Grover Norquist -- who has been quoted as saying: ''I don't want to abolish government. I simply want to reduce it to the size where I can drag it into the bathroom and drown it in the bathtub'' -- doesn't have the instincts for this moment. Mr. Norquist is the only person about whom I would say this: I hope he owns property around the New Orleans levee that was never properly finished because of a lack of tax dollars. I hope his basement got flooded. And I hope that he was busy drowning government in his bathtub when the levee broke and that he had to wait for a U.S. Army helicopter to get out of town.
 The Bush team has engaged in a tax giveaway since 9/11 that has had one underlying assumption: There will never be another rainy day. Just spend money. You knew that sooner or later there would be a rainy day, but Karl Rove has assumed it wouldn't happen on Mr. Bush's watch -- that someone else would have to clean it up. Well, it did happen on his watch.
 Besides ripping away the roofs of New Orleans, Katrina ripped away the argument that we can cut taxes, properly educate our kids, compete with India and China, succeed in Iraq, keep improving the U.S. infrastructure, and take care of a catastrophic emergency -- without putting ourselves totally into the debt of Beijing.
 So many of the things the Bush team has ignored or distorted under the guise of fighting Osama were exposed by Katrina: its refusal to impose a gasoline tax after 9/11, which would have begun to shift our economy much sooner to more fuel-efficient cars, helped raise money for a rainy day and eased our dependence on the world's worst regimes for energy; its refusal to develop some form of national health care to cover the 40 million uninsured; and its insistence on cutting more taxes, even when that has contributed to incomplete levees and too small an Army to deal with Katrina, Osama and Saddam at the same time.
 As my Democratic entrepreneur friend Joel Hyatt once remarked, the Bush team's philosophy since 9/11 has been: ''We're at war. Let's party.'' 
 Well, the party is over. If Mr. Bush learns the lessons of Katrina, he has a chance to replace his 9/11 mandate with something new and relevant. If that happens, Katrina will have destroyed New Orleans, but helped to restore America. If Mr. Bush goes back to his politics as usual, he'll be thwarted at every turn. Katrina will have destroyed a city and a presidency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HURRICANES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AL-QAEDA (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); CREATIONISM (63%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); RELIGION (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Floods; Terrorism; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%) Thomas L Friedman; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (73%) Louisiana; Mississippi; Alabama; New Orleans (La); Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



152 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Firm Sues to Block Mutual Fund Fee Inquiry 

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
J.&W. Seligman & Company, a New York investment firm, sued the state's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, yesterday, asserting that he had overstepped his authority in his investigation of improper trading in Seligman's mutual funds.
 The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, seeks to suspend Mr. Spitzer's ability to investigate ''allegedly excessive advisory fees paid to Seligman.''
Seligman, founded in 1864 and one of the nation's oldest investment firms, is one of the few mutual fund managers that have yet to reach a settlement with Mr. Spitzer regarding market timing in its funds. 
 Market timing -- the rapid trading in and out of mutual funds -- has been the focus of an investigation made public by Mr. Spitzer two years ago this week. 
 The attorney general and other regulators have accused fund managers of permitting favored investors to make short-term trades, even when their public filings indicated that they discouraged the practice. 
 A long list of fund companies have agreed to ban the practice, and to pay about $3 billion worth of fines, restitution and fee reductions to investors harmed by the trading.
 In recent months, however, some parties have begun to challenge Mr. Spitzer in the mutual fund investigation and beyond. In June, a jury found against the attorney general on most charges in a criminal case against a former broker at Bank of America, Theodore C. Sihpol III. Mr. Spitzer had accused Mr. Sihpol of helping Canary Capital Partners, a hedge fund, in market timing.
 The same month, certain banks, including J.P. Morgan Chase, sought to prevent Mr. Spitzer from investigating whether the banks were charging excessive interest rates on mortgages to minorities. A court hearing is scheduled for today in Federal District Court in Manhattan on the matter. 
 A few months after Mr. Spitzer's mutual fund investigation became public, Seligman agreed to pay nearly $2 million to investors in three of its mutual funds where there had been rapid trading. It also said it would reduce fees on one of those funds by 0.05 percent for two years beginning in June 2004. 
 Despite the voluntary fee cuts, Mr. Spitzer's investigation continued, because he believed that the actions the firm had taken were not sufficient, a person briefed on the investigation said. That person said he could not speak for attribution because the talks were confidential.
 Seligman reached a tentative agreement in August with Mr. Spitzer's office and the Securities and Exchange Commission, but talks broke down after Mr. Spitzer ''sought to impose operating conditions on Seligman which were unacceptable to Seligman,'' the lawsuit said. 
 Mr. Spitzer's office wanted Seligman to appoint an independent monitor to review how the fund's managers negotiated fees, the lawsuit said. Seligman said monitoring its fees ''is the regulatory province of the S.E.C., and only the S.E.C.,'' the lawsuit said.
 After the talks broke down, Mr. Spitzer issued a series of subpoenas in late August against directors and executives at Seligman in an effort to pressure Seligman into agreeing to his terms, the lawsuit said. 
 Requiring a third party to review how fees are set has been a condition of all of Mr. Spitzer's settlements with fund companies to date, said David D. Brown IV, director of the attorney general's Investment Protection Bureau and the person overseeing the day-to-day operations of the mutual fund investigation.
 The fee reductions, however, have been criticized by officials at the S.E.C., who have said it is not the role of the government to set prices.
 Even with the fee reductions, expenses at many Seligman funds are above average, Mr. Brown said, citing data from Morningstar, a research firm that tracks mutual funds. ''Why don't they want to join other mutual fund companies in reducing inordinately high fees?'' he said.
 Expenses at Seligman funds, on average, are 1.93 percent of assets, according to Morningstar, compared with an average of 1.47 percent at large fund companies. Performance at many Seligman funds has also been weak.
 Last year, Seligman named a new chief investment officer, John B. Cunningham, who is making positive changes at the firm, said Todd Trubey, a Morningstar analyst. 
 ''He came in to clean things up and we have found him to be a pretty straight shooter,'' Mr. Trubey said. For now, Morningstar is willing to give Seligman the benefit of the doubt, even with this lawsuit, Mr. Trubey said. The research firm plans to meet with Seligman executives within the next few days, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); INVESTIGATIONS (93%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); ETHICS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); VERDICTS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Suits and Litigation; Fines (Penalties); Securities and Commodities Violations; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: J&W Seligman & Co

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005



153 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Katrina's Silver Lining

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
As a colleague of mine says, every crisis is an opportunity. And sure enough, Hurricane Katrina has given us an amazing chance to do something serious about urban poverty. 
 That's because Katrina was a natural disaster that interrupted a social disaster. It separated tens of thousands of poor people from the run-down, isolated neighborhoods in which they were trapped. It disrupted the patterns that have led one generation to follow another into poverty. 
 It has created as close to a blank slate as we get in human affairs, and given us a chance to rebuild a city that wasn't working. We need to be realistic about how much we can actually change human behavior, but it would be a double tragedy if we didn't take advantage of these unique circumstances to do something that could serve as a spur to antipoverty programs nationwide. 
 The first rule of the rebuilding effort should be: Nothing Like Before. Most of the ambitious and organized people abandoned the inner-city areas of New Orleans long ago, leaving neighborhoods where roughly three-quarters of the people were poor.
 In those cultural zones, many people dropped out of high school, so it seemed normal to drop out of high school. Many teenage girls had babies, so it seemed normal to become a teenage mother. It was hard for men to get stable jobs, so it was not abnormal for them to commit crimes and hop from one relationship to another. Many people lacked marketable social skills, so it was hard for young people to learn these skills from parents, neighbors and peers.
 If we just put up new buildings and allow the same people to move back into their old neighborhoods, then urban New Orleans will become just as rundown and dysfunctional as before.
 That's why the second rule of rebuilding should be: Culturally Integrate. Culturally Integrate. Culturally Integrate. The only chance we have to break the cycle of poverty is to integrate people who lack middle-class skills into neighborhoods with people who possess these skills and who insist on certain standards of behavior. 
 The most famous example of cultural integration is the Gautreaux program, in which poor families from Chicago were given the chance to move into suburban middle-class areas. The adults in these families did only slightly better than the adults left behind, but the children in the relocated families did much better.
 These kids suddenly found themselves surrounded by peers who expected to graduate from high school and go to college. After the shock of adapting to the more demanding suburban schools, they were more likely to go to college, too. 
 The Clinton administration built on Gautreaux by creating the Moving to Opportunity program, dispersing poor families to middle-class neighborhoods in five other metropolitan areas. This time the results weren't as striking, but were still generally positive. The relocated parents weren't more likely to have jobs or increase their earnings (being close to job opportunities is not enough -- you need the skills and habits to get the jobs and do the work), but their children did better, especially the girls. 
 The lesson is that you can't expect miracles, but if you break up zones of concentrated poverty, you can see progress over time. 
 In the post-Katrina world, that means we ought to give people who don't want to move back to New Orleans the means to disperse into middle-class areas nationwide. (That's the kind of thing Houston is beginning to do right now.)
 There may be local resistance to the new arrivals -- in Baton Rouge there were three-hour lines at gun shops as locals armed themselves against the hurricane victims moving to their area -- but if there has ever been a moment when people may open their hearts, this is it.
 For New Orleans, the key will be luring middle-class families into the rebuilt city, making it so attractive to them that they will move in, even knowing that their blocks will include a certain number of poor people.
 As people move in, the rebuilding effort could provide jobs for those able to work. Churches, the police, charter schools and social welfare agencies could be mobilized to weave the social networks vital to resurgent communities. The feds could increase earned-income tax credits so people who are working can rise out of poverty. Tax laws could encourage business development.
 We can't win a grandiose war on poverty. But after the tragedy comes the opportunity. This is the post-Katrina moment. Let's not blow it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); CHILDREN (87%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); SUBURBS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Area Planning and Renewal; Urban Areas; United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



154 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: CONGRESS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Inquiry Proposed; Bush Seeks Billions More in Aid 

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Edmund L. Andrews, David D. Kirkpatrick and David E. Sanger contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Republican Congressional leaders on Wednesday announced a joint House-Senate inquiry into failures surrounding the response to Hurricane Katrina as the Bush administration requested $51.8 billion in new relief money in the face of intensifying Democratic criticism of its handling of the disaster. 
 ''Americans deserve answers,'' said Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, who announced the panel with the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, adding that a report from a select group of senior lawmakers would be due by Feb. 15. ''We must do all we can to learn from this tragedy, improve the system and protect all of our citizens,'' he said.
The decision by House and Senate Republican leaders to press forward with a rare bicameral investigation reflected an intense push to quell the furor surrounding the hurricane relief effort and respond to worries by members of their own party that majority Republicans were suffering politically. 
 Senior House Republican officials said that, behind the scenes, some lawmakers were pressing the Bush administration to dismiss Michael D. Brown, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
 ''He's been compromised,'' said one top Republican lawmaker who works closely with the White House and did not want to be identified when discussing a delicate administration personnel issue.
 Democrats continued to assail Mr. Brown's stewardship of the agency and expressed outrage over a private bipartisan briefing provided Tuesday night by cabinet officials. Several lawmakers said the officials, including Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, refused to acknowledge any shortcomings in the relief effort.
 ''You would have thought we had a picture-perfect response to Katrina,'' said Representative Robert Menendez of New Jersey, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.
 House and Senate leaders said they expected Congress to quickly approve the administration's new request for aid on Thursday since the relief effort was devouring money more rapidly than anticipated. It would bring the total allocated so far to $62.3 billion, with most of the money directed to FEMA. Several lawmakers and others have said costs could be two or three times that figure over the course of reconstruction and resettlement of residents. 
 In a conference call with reporters, Joshua B. Bolten, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said the administration expected the new money to ''last at least several weeks,'' though the White House anticipated it would need substantially more in the near future.
 ''I do not expect the burn rate to be as high as it was over the weekend, but it could easily be above the half-billion a day that we were experiencing in the first few days of the disaster,'' Mr. Bolten said.
 Congress also got a report from the Congressional Budget Office on the national economic toll of the storm. The agency predicted the storm would cost 400,000 jobs over the next three months and could reduce the nation's economic growth rate by as much as one percentage point for the second half of this year.
 But the budget office expects growth will pick up as reconstruction gets under way, and it predicts the overall economic impact from the hurricane will be ''significant but not overwhelming.'' It is also optimistic that the damage to oil refineries and oil production will be temporary and that fuel prices are likely to decline from their peaks, contributing to a rebound early next year.
 The proposal for a joint Congressional inquiry was hastily worked out Wednesday after Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, said late Tuesday that the House would not proceed with announced hearings by the Government Reform Committee though the Senate did intend to embark on its own inquiry.
 Mr. Frist and Mr. Hastert would not respond to questions about how the committee would work, but their spokesmen said it would have subpoena power and would be structured like standing committees that are controlled by the majority party. They said the panel was expected to be the primary investigative vehicle and would preclude federal officials involved in the relief effort from being summoned before numerous panels. They said it would begin its work soon, though they could provide no starting dates for hearings and few specifics on the membership. 
 Congressional Democrats, who were not involved in putting the joint inquiry together, quickly expressed skepticism about the panel's credibility. 
 ''An investigation of the Republican administration by a Republican-controlled Congress is like having a pitcher call his own balls and strikes,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader.
 Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, also expressed disappointment in the panel, saying that ''Republicans are afraid of a truly bipartisan investigation that can get to the bottom of why the federal government's initial response failed.'' But she conceded that it would be difficult to get the administration to agree to an outside investigation.
 Bob Stevenson, a spokesman for Mr. Frist, said that Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and chairwoman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, would be the top Senate Republican on the panel. But he said her own committee's hearing next week on the aftermath of the hurricane would still be held.
 Republican officials said that they believed Democrats were risking a backlash for their unrelenting criticism of the relief effort, but acknowledged that their own lawmakers were angry over the response and saw Mr. Brown, the FEMA director, as a chief problem.
 At the White House, Scott McClellan, its spokesman, was pressed about whether Mr. Bush still had confidence in the FEMA director. Mr. McClellan declined to answer that question, arguing that it was part of an effort by reporters to fix responsibility for the federal response on some member of the administration. ''This is where some people want to look at the blame-game issue, and finger-point,'' he said. 
 After repeated questions, Mr. McClellan concluded his daily briefing by saying that the president was appreciative of all of the efforts by employees of FEMA, Mr. Brown included, and that Mr. Bush stood by his praise of Mr. Brown last week.
 As the House prepared to allocate the new money, Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, said he would try to offer an amendment to sever FEMA from the Department of Homeland Security. Some critics of the storm response said the effectiveness of FEMA was diminished by its being placed under the broader umbrella.
 As the House took up hurricane-related legislation, lawmakers on Wednesday approved a measure that would prevent college students from having to return federal financial aid if they were enrolled in schools now closed by Hurricane Katrina.
 ''All of these bills have one goal,'' Mr. Hastert said, ''to get help to the people of the Gulf Coast and to get it to them now.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A headline with an article yesterday about action by Congress in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina referred incorrectly to an investigation into failures surrounding the government response. The investigation will be bicameral, but its political composition has not been determined and Democrats were not involved in putting the panel together. The article also gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the surname of the director of the Office of Management and Budget, who said $51.8 billion requested for hurricane relief was expected to last ''at least several weeks.'' He is Joshua B. Bolten, not Bolton.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Rising Cost of the Disaster''Congress is expected to approve additional spending for Hurricane Katrina recovery as soon as today. Here is a breakdown of the request:APPROVED FRIDAY: $10.5 billionNEW SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATION: $51.8 billionTO DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY: $50 billion for FEMA recovery efforts, including shelter, food and medical care.TO DEFENSE DEPARTMENT: $1.4 billion for military deployment.TO ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS: $400 million for repairs to levees, pumps and channels.(Source by Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (82%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (59%) Carl Hulse; Edmund L Andrews; David D Kirkpatrick; David E Sanger; Bill (Sen) Frist; J Dennis (Speaker) Hastert; Michael D Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



155 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Justice, of Gods or the Politicians

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
In the history of humankind, there has rarely been a disaster like the New Orleans flood without a theodicy to go along with it. The word ''theodicy,'' coined in the 18th century by the philosopher Gottfried Leibniz, derives from Greek roots invoking the ''justice of the gods.'' A theodicy is an attempt to show that such justice exists, to prove that we really do live in what Leibniz insisted was the ''best of all possible worlds.'' 
 So theodicies have been plentiful after earthquakes, floods and droughts. Explanations are readily offered: disasters are the wages of sin, they herald an apocalyptic age, they cleanse the earth of evil. Theodicies aim to demonstrate that devastation does not really disrupt or overturn our understanding of the moral and social order. Instead, disorder provides evidence of order. The theodicy is that order. It explains forces that seem to lie beyond human powers, evils that lie beyond human cause. 
Theodicies are not casual matters, and in the weeks after Katrina, they are bound to evolve, even in secular culture, even when they may not resemble the ones that Leibniz had in mind. So they need to be better understood. 
 The classic theodicies in the West are biblical. The flood of Noah's time, for example, is a reflection of the divine will, cleansing the earth of humanity's evil. A more powerful theodicy later evolved out of the trials of the ancient Israelites, in which destruction and exile were treated not as random accidents of history, but as forms of retribution for violating the Mosaic law and its ethical consequences. Suffering could become proof of divine attention and not its opposite. 
 Scholars like Norman Cohn have shown how in medieval Europe the worst human trauma could be interpreted as proof of imminent apocalypse and redemption, inspiring millennial expectations and movements. Meanwhile, the theodicy of divine retribution still thrives today and was invoked by some fundamentalist believers after Katrina. 
 But between medieval Europe and contemporary America something profound changed in the way natural disasters are interpreted and the kinds of theodicies they inspire. And one of the turning points, as many scholars have argued, was the 1755 earthquake in Lisbon. It destroyed perhaps a third of the city's population, with deaths in the tens of thousands. It overturned the confidence of European royalty and seemed to drive a wedge between the earthly and divine realms. 
 For the growing forces of the Enlightenment, it also seemed to overturn the very idea that a theodicy could account for the disaster. Voltaire, who had once seen nature as benevolent, was whipped into a rationalist fury by the experience. Leibniz, he believed, had been refuted by nature. Voltaire wrote a ''Poem on the Disaster of Lisbon'' in which the quake's victims are called ''Tormented atoms on a heap of muck/ That death devours and that fate trips up.'' His character Candide watches the earthquake from a distance, seeing it as morally blind, killing the good and preserving the wicked. 
 In a sense, the earthquake actually ended up strengthening the hand of the Enlightenment, as if a replacement theodicy had fallen into place. Kant wrote about the quake. Scientific investigation took place. The response of Portugal's prime minister to the disaster was practical, not religious. ''We will bury the dead,'' he said, ''and take care of the living.'' 
 Recently, the philosopher Susan Neiman argued in ''Evil in Modern Thought'' that the Lisbon earthquake also destroyed an ancient idea that nature could itself be evil. After Lisbon, she argued, moral evil was distinguished from natural disaster. Earthquakes and floods could no longer be fitted into traditional religious theodicies.
 But this did not mean, of course, that theodicies faded away. Ms. Neiman argued that for philosophers theology had been replaced by history. The fates of peoples and nations reflected other forces, and disruptions were given other forms of explanation. Hegel saw history as an evolutionary series of transformations in which destruction was as inevitable as birth. Marx believed other kinds of economic and human laws accounted for destruction and evolution. This mostly left natural disasters for the growing realm of science: if they couldn't be prevented, at least their origins could be understood. 
 Now though, with the prospect of thousands of dead becoming plausible with reports from New Orleans, other forms of theodicy also taking shape. Much debate is taking place about the scale of human tragedy, about procedures and planning and responsibility. And none of that should be ignored. But it is remarkable how this natural disaster has almost imperceptibly come to seem the result of human agency, as if failures in planning were almost evidence of cause, as if forces of nature were subject to human oversight. The hurricane has been humanized.
 I don't want to push this too far, of course; human actions, as the Portuguese prime minister knew, are crucial. But this is still an important change in our views of the natural world. In a way, it inflates human knowledge. It confidently extends scientific and political power into the realm of nature. It doesn't really explain catastrophe, but it attempts to explain why we are forced to experience it: because of human failings. 
 There is a theodicy at work here, in the ways in which the reaction to natural catastrophe so readily becomes political. Nature becomes something to be managed or mismanaged; it lies within the political order, not outside it. Theodicy, if successful, does not overturn belief but confirms it. So, for some commentators, the flood and its aftermath provided confirmation of their previous doubts about the Bush adminstration. 
 Actually, in some respects, this theodicy has gone even beyond the political: just as a religious theodicy might have shown natural catastrophe to be the result of human misdeed, many of the early commentators about the flood did the same, creating a kind of scientific/moral theodicy in which human sin is still a dominant factor. Last week, for example, Germany's minister of the environment, Jurgen Trittin, said: ''The American president has closed his eyes to the economic and human damage that natural catastrophes such as Katrina -- in other words, disasters caused by a lack of climate protection measures -- can visit on his country.'' 
 All of these explanations are subject to examination and debate of course, but in the heart of a secular age, they are also something else. They are theodicies. And in the face of nature's awesome and horrific powers, the prospect of political retribution is as prevalent as the promise of divine retribution once was.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An engraving of the Lisbon earthquake of 1755, which Voltaire depicted as morally blind. (Photo by Bettmann Archvie/Corbis)
 A disaster calls for a theodicy: victims at Pompeii of the A.D. 79 eruption of Vesuvius. (Photo by Photo Researchers)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); MILLENNIUM (77%); ETHICS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); CITIES (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Floods; Religion and Churches; Disasters; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Edward Rothstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (86%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



156 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Before Katrina, the Economy Was Doing Fine 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Factories were chugging, cash registers were busy and jobs were growing in the late summer -- fresh proof that the economy was in fine fettle before Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast, spreading death and destruction.
 The Federal Reserve's latest snapshot of business conditions around the country, released Wednesday, was taken before last week's hurricane.
Private economists and the Congressional Budget Office predicted that fallout from the storm would cause overall economic activity to slow in the second half of this year by one-half to a full percentage point on an annualized basis. Jobs also are expected to take a hit in the coming months. 
 The hurricane catapulted gasoline prices that were already elevated and other energy prices even higher. Prices for lumber, coffee and a variety of other goods are likely to head up, private economists predicted.
 Against this backdrop, overall consumer prices in the second half of this year are expected to be higher than analysts were anticipating. 
 In the two months before the storm, ''except for energy, overall consumer price increases were modest,'' according to the Fed's survey.
 The survey also showed that manufacturing activity increased in most of the Fed's 12 regional districts, retail sales and tourism activity strengthened in most regions and the jobs climate improved -- all before the hurricane hit.
 Economic uncertainty from the disaster is leading some economists to predict that Fed policy makers will forgo raising short-term interest rates at their next meeting on Sept. 20. Such a move had been considered a virtual certainty. Others, however, continue to believe that the Fed will increase rates at that time to keep inflation under control.
 The Fed's survey also found that the housing boom showed signs of softening in some markets. 
 The Fed districts of Kansas City, New York, Philadelphia and Richmond all observed strong home sales, ''but signs of cooling were evident,'' the survey said. Some areas reported that residential construction activity was brisk but down from a year ago. The St. Louis district reported that construction activity was lagging.
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has repeatedly warned that homeowners, lenders and investors cannot count on the housing market remaining hot forever.
 The Fed's survey is based on information collected before Aug. 29 and is supplied by its 12 regional banks.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Most Regions Experience Modest Growth''A roundup of regional economic conditions for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data are Mid-July through August (before Hurricane Katrina hit on Aug. 29).MINNEAPOLISThe region's economy experienced ''broad-based growth'' with several sectors reporting strong gains.PHILADELPHIAManufacturing had an increase in orders and shipments. Home sales and mortgage lending weakened.SAN FRANCISCOEconomic activity continued to grow. The energy sector experienced some inflation.RICHMOND, VA.The region's economy expanded at a steady pace. Manufacturing and retail sales increased. Auto sales were especially brisk.CHICAGOConsumer and business spending increased. Manufacturing ''continued at a solid pace.''ATLANTABusinesses reported brisk economic activity ''but had moderated relative to earlier in the summer.''CLEVELANDThe region showed ''steady improvement'' with an increase in factory orders and auto sales.ST. LOUISRetail and auto sales grew. The service industry reported an increase in activity. Manufacturing was ''mixed.''BOSTONRetailers reported yearover-year growth, while month-to-month sales were ''erratic.'' Manufacturing was mixed.KANSAS CITY, MO.Economic activity slowed. Home building and manufacturing weakened. Price pressures increased.NEW YORKRobust tourism strengthened the region's economy. Hot weather and rising energy costs put retail sales ''below plan.''DALLASDespite concerns about high energy prices, ''energy activity remained strong.'' Agriculture slowed slightly.(Source by Bloomberg News)Graph: ''U.S. Productivity''Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992=100, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks output since 2001. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); WEATHER (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (69%); COFFEE MARKETS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); RETAIL SALES (51%) United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Federal Reserve System; Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



157 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE FARMS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Alarm Growing On Storm's Cost For Agriculture

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Two weeks from the beginning of harvest season, there is a mounting sense of alarm over a potential financial blow to American farming. Farmers in the breadbasket states rely on barges to carry their corn, soybeans and wheat down the Mississippi River, but cannot be certain that the Port of New Orleans, a crucial link to export markets that was badly damaged by Hurricane Katrina, will reopen anytime soon.
 In the gulf states, the storm left farmers reeling from numerous other problems, including a lack of electricity to restore chicken and dairy plants to service, and a shortage of diesel fuel needed for trucks to save dying cattle stranded on the breached levees.
For all of them, it is a race against time.
 Farmers in some states in the Midwest had already endured the worst drought in almost 20 years. The storm, moreover, flattened sugar cane and rice fields in the South. And farmers nationwide must pay more for fuel to bring the harvest in and transport crops, lowering the profit they will earn when they sell them. Now Hurricane Katrina is adding to the pain by threatening to curtail exports. 
 In all, the hurricane will cause an estimated $2 billion in damage to farmers nationwide, according to an early analysis by the American Farm Bureau Federation. The estimate includes $1 billion in direct losses, as well as $500 million in higher fuel and energy prices.
 Midwestern farmers are threatened by additional losses. Farmers are clearing out stored corn and soybeans to prepare for this year's harvest, which they normally begin exporting at the end of September. But the hurricane caused substantial damage to waterways and grain-handling facilities, and hundreds of barges have been backing up on the Mississippi River with no place to go. 
 The latest blow to the farm economy comes at a delicate time for the Bush administration, which has been pushing to trim farm subsidies to comply with mounting pressure from the World Trade Organization to level the playing field for producers in developing countries. 
 The post-Katrina troubles of American farmers could make it tougher for the administration to push through an overhaul of subsidies that is being sought by developing countries. That, in turn, could affect the administration's effort to win new export markets for American production. Some 27 percent of American farm receipts come from exports.
 Higher transportation and logistical costs -- including diesel fuel, rail costs and barge rates -- are slicing prices producers get for a variety of commodities. Corn prices, for example, have dropped 15 to 20 cents a bushel, or about a 9 percent decrease, based on Wednesday's price of $2.17 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, said Jerry Gidel, an analyst at North America Risk Management Services in Chicago.
 The farm sector's problems are in sharp contrast to its good fortune last year. Driven by record-large crops, high beef prices and generous farm subsidies, net farm income hit a record $82.5 billion in 2004. Now the hurricane will put disaster relief programs into play and depress commodity prices, leading to billions of dollars more in government payments to farmers.
 Next week, the House and Senate Agriculture Committees are expected to issue reports on how they plan to cut $3 billion in Agriculture Department programs from the federal budget.
 Farm groups have been pushing for any trims to take place in the food stamps and conservation programs, while the Bush administration has proposed ending the cotton subsidy program, which the World Trade Organization has ruled illegal in parts after complaints from Brazil and other cotton producers.
 But the devastation wrought by the storm -- and the ensuing economic impact on farmers both near the gulf and several states away -- could alter the debate in Washington and hamper crucial trade talks scheduled for a December meeting of the World Trade Organization in Hong Kong.
 ''Without question, this makes the reforms that a lot of the rest of the world would like to see happen here in the U.S. a lot more difficult,'' said Clayton Yeutter, a former secretary of agriculture and United States trade representative. ''The general psychology of the event is clearly negative.''
 In recent weeks, Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns has been crisscrossing the nation talking to farmers. His message is the need to reduce farm subsidies both to open more export markets to American farmers and to comply with international free trade agreements. ''There is a real conditioning going on here,'' said Keith Bolin, a corn and hog farmer and president of the American Corn Growers Association, who attended a session last week in Decatur, Ill., three days after the hurricane. ''Get used to less, get used to less. That's the message.''
 After two failed efforts at trade negotiations in the so-called Doha round, another failure in Hong Kong could be devastating to developing countries, which are desperate to lift their economies through access to markets in Europe and the United States. 
 The World Trade Organization is working to remove $280 billion in subsidies among the world's richest countries. Of that, American taxpayers and consumers paid $47 billion to farmers last year, an amount equal to about 20 percent of farm receipts, according to the World Bank.
 But Mr. Yeutter and others said the emotional and financial impact of the hurricane on farmers will be tough to ignore in Washington.
 The American Farm Bureau Federation estimated that Louisiana would lose two million tons, or 20 percent, of its sugar cane crop. That would reduce the total United States sugar harvest by 3.5 percent, according to the analysis. 
 In Franklinton, La., a milk-processing plant is struggling without power to dump 60,000 gallons of stored milk that has gone bad. At some nearby Louisiana dairy farms, farmers have continued to milk cows, but with nowhere to sell the milk, they have simply dumped it down the drain. 
 Some 25 million pounds of milk at plants in Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi could be lost over the next month if the plants do not return to operation soon, said Michael Danna, a spokesman for the Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation. 
 Louisiana sugar cane farmers are worried that they may have to delay delivering their crop to mills while they wait for fields to dry long enough to apply an agent that ripens sugar cane, increasing the sugar content and making the crop more salable. 
 The delay could put the farmers dangerously close to the onset of winter frost, Mr. Danna said.
 In Covington, La., thousands of cows are stranded in two feet of brackish water on the levees near New Orleans. Mike Strain, a veterinarian and co-owner of the Strain Cattle Company, struggled Wednesday to find a plane to airlift hay into the area to give his remaining 400 head of cattle ''enough strength and energy to get them out of there.'' Already, well more than half of the 1,100 animals in his herd have perished, costing his company $2 million in uninsured losses. 
 ''The timetable for survival is diminishing rapidly,'' said Dr. Strain, who is also a state legislator. ''The death loss of cattle in southeast Louisiana will be 80,000 to 100,000 head when it's all tallied. That's 50 to 70 percent of the herd here, and that's before disease sets in.''
 Dr. Strain's rescue efforts are being severely hampered is a lack of diesel fuel to move the cattle to a ranch 100 miles north. ''There is no fuel in the service stations that have power. That's just unconscionable.'' 
 Government officials are hoping for the best. Mr. Johanns, the agriculture secretary, said Wednesday that he was encouraged by the progress so far in restoring the flow of commerce on the river. He said ships are moving again and the majority of grain elevators in the region are resuming operations, at 63 percent of capacity.
 ''We are assuring our international customers that we expect minimal disruptions,'' Mr. Johanns said in a statement. He said workers were focused on restoring power, ensuring adequate staffing and reinstalling navigational aids to allow safe passage of ships.
 Given a nighttime curfew, little electric power and potentially hazardous and disease-ridden working conditions, the issue of who will operate the ports remains unclear, with some analysts saying the military or National Guard may have to step in. 
 A union representative expressed confidence Wednesday that such severe measures would not be needed. The International Longshoreman Association's more than 500 regular New Orleans dock workers -- nearly all of them evacuated to other cities -- could be ready to work there ''immediately,'' said Benny Holland, vice president of the union. Additional workers are available, if needed, from regional ports, like Gulfport, Miss., that are not operating, he said. 
 Most nations that import large amounts of agricultural commodities shipped through New Orleans and other gulf ports have plenty of stockpiles to ride out any disruption in shipping, the Agriculture Department's chief economist, Keith Collins, said in an interview. ''I don't think any of them are in any kind of jeopardy,'' he said.
 China, the largest buyer of United States soybeans, for instance, is estimated to have 4.1 million tons on hand, equal to about 10 percent of its annual consumption. Japan, the biggest foreign buyer of American corn, has about 1.3 million tons in storage. ''That's a typical number for them,'' Mr. Collins said.
 Some of the slaughtered chicken in storage at ports in New Orleans and Gulfport was lost, but production, which totals about 8.8 billion broilers a year in the United States, is little affected.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cows belonging to the Strain Cattle Company are herded to higher ground south of New Orleans. The company lost many cows in the flood. (Photo by Thomas Laird/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Another Hurdle on the Way to Market''The Gulf Coast is a major export conduit for some crops. If lingering effects from the hurricane severely hamper port capacity, farmers could lose significant income and some countries that depend heavily on imported American food could be left scrambling to make up the shortfall.SOYBEANSTotal domestic output=3.1 bil. bushelsEach crop's exports through Gulf Coast ports going to each country, in 2004CHINA: 34%OTHER: 42%JAPAN: 16%GERMANY: 8%Percentage exported, based on estimates for current season: 39%Percentage of exports going through Louisiana and Mobile, Ala., ports, in 2004: 70%CORNTotal domestic output=11.8 bil. bushelsEach crop's exports through Gulf Coast ports going to each country, in 2004JAPAN: 34%OTHER: 51%EGYPT: 9%MEXICO: 6%Percentage exported, based on estimates for current season: 19%Percentage of exports going through Louisiana and Mobile, Ala., ports, in 2004: 62%RED WINTER WHEAT*Total domestic output=380 mil. bushelsEach crop's exports through Gulf Coast ports going to each country, in 2004CHINA: 15%OTHER: 67%MEXICO: 9%EGYPT: 9%Percentage exported, based on estimates for current season: 32%Percentage of exports going through Louisiana and Mobile, Ala., ports, in 2004: 27%*Percentage of crop going through gulf ports and to each country is for all wheat.(Source by American Farm Bureau Federation
 Department of Agriculture)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (77%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (76%); RICE MARKETS (76%); SUGAR MARKETS (76%); WEATHER (76%); FOOD PRICES (75%); DIESEL FUEL (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); DROUGHT (73%); BEEF (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (61%) Agriculture; Finances; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Agriculture

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (60%); RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICES LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (83%) American Farm Bureau Federation

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (60%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (60%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); MOBILE, AL, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%) Midwestern States (US); Southern States (US); Louisiana; Alabama

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



158 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS SUMMARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17

First Multicandidate Race Draws Egyptian Voters
Egyptians voted in the nation's first multicandidate race for president, and while Egypt has not yet shaken off decades of one-man, one-party rule, the streets were calm, protesters were allowed to block city traffic and voters could cast a ballot for someone other than Hosni Mubarak. A1

New Details on Arafat's Death
The medical records of Yasir Arafat, which have been kept secret since his unexplained death, show that he died from a stroke that resulted from a bleeding disorder caused by an unidentified infection. A1

A New Course Offered in China
Among China's gay and lesbian population, a new college class called ''Introduction to Gay and Lesbian Studies'' is being portrayed as a major advance. A3

Query Ties Doctor to 13 Deaths
In a report sent to the Australian Parliament, the former chairman of an inquiry into the activities of an American-trained surgeon at a rural Australian hospital says the doctor was responsible for the deaths of 13 patients. A5

India Begins Health Initiative
Government ministers descended on a North Indian state capital to kick off an ambitious rural health initiative to combat a viral disease known as Japanese encephalitis. A6

U.S. and Japan Are Small Givers
A week before world leaders gather to set a course for combating global poverty, a United Nations report named the United States and Japan as among ''the least generous donors'' and said American and European trade policies were hypocritical and contributed to impoverishing African farmers. A6

Car Bombs Kills 16 in Iraq
A taxi packed with explosives detonated outside a crowded restaurant in the southern city of Basra, killing 16 Iraqis and injuring two dozen. A13

NATIONAL A18-27

Forced Evacuations Begin; Flood Waters Receding
With the waters inside the city growing increasingly fetid and thousands of people still holding out, New Orleans police officers began to force residents to leave, including those living in dry and undamaged homes. A1

Tests of water covering New Orleans showed excessive levels of E. coli bacteria and lead, federal officials said, providing the first confirmation that the flood waters caused by Hurricane Katrina are posing health risks for emergency officials and residents refusing to leave. A24

After 10 days of often uncertain responses to the Bush administration's management of Hurricane Katrina, Democratic leaders unleashed a burst of attacks on the White House, saying the wreckage raised doubts about the country's readiness to endure a terrorist attack and exposed ominous economic rifts that Democrats said had worsened under five years of Republican rule. A21

Republican Congressional leaders announced a joint House-Senate inquiry into failures surrounding the response to Hurricane Katrina as the Bush administration requested $51.8 billion in new relief money. A26

Generous offers of aid for Hurricane Katrina victims are pouring in from scores of nations, but in many cases the United States is unprepared to receive the goods. A25

Governor to Veto Gay-Union Bill
Less than 24 hours after California lawmakers narrowly passed the country's first same-sex marriage bill, a spokeswoman for Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said that the governor would veto it. A18

Same-Sex Custody Battle
Judges in Vermont and Virginia have different ideas about what is best for a baby born to a woman who had a civil union with another woman in Vermont, presenting a direct conflict between two state courts on a substantial legal question arising from a same-sex couple's union. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Street Scuffle Intensifies Race for District Attorney
The battle for Manhattan district attorney became increasing bitter as a street scuffle broke out between staff members of the incumbent, Robert M. Morgenthau, and his opponent, Leslie Crocker Snyder, Mr. Morgenthau's first serious challenger in 20 years. B1

Man Brutally Attacks Baby
A knife-wielding man approached a nanny pushing a 10-month-old girl in a stroller in Washington Heights and plunged his knife into the baby's torso, critically injuring her, the police said. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-8

U.S. Open Continues
American Robby Ginepri upset Guillermo Coria of Argentina, 4-6, 6-1, 7-5, 3-6, 7-5, to earn a place in the semifinals of the United States Open. In the women's bracket, Mary Pierce romped, 6-4, 6-1, over Amelie Mauresmo in a quarterfinal match. Pierce will meet Elena Dementieva who defeated Lindsay Davenport, 6-1, 3-6, 7-6 6), to advance to a semifinal. D1

HOUSE & HOME F1-12
THURSDAY STYLES G1-14
OBITUARIES B9
ARTS E1-10

Modern Acquires 'Lost' Matisse
A hypnotic interior by Matisse whose whereabouts have been unknown to scholars in recent decades, has been purchased for the Museum of Modern Art by its new president, Marie-Josee Kravis, and her husband. E1

Bridge E9
Crossword E9
TV Listings E10
Weather D9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); HURRICANES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (75%); TERRORISM (75%); TROPICAL DISEASES (75%); BACTERIA (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MEDICAL RECORDS (71%); STROKES (70%); E COLI (70%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); BLOOD DISORDERS (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); FLOODS & FLOODING (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NORTH INDIA (79%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



159 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: FUEL COSTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Prices Seen Stabilizing, But Only For Drivers 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Gasoline prices appeared to stabilize yesterday as companies restored more oil production and refining capacity, and the government projected that prices would drop well below $3 a gallon by the end of the year.
 But any relief consumers experience at the pump may quickly disappear as heating oil and natural gas prices are expected to soar 31 percent and 24 percent, according to a report from the Energy Information Administration, a division of the Energy Department.
All told, according to the report, the United States will spend $1.03 trillion on energy in 2005, 18 percent more than it did in 2004, accounting for 8.3 percent of the gross domestic product, the highest since 1987.
 Hurricane Katrina dealt a big setback to offshore oil and natural gas production, refineries and pipelines that transport gasoline and other fuels to the eastern United States. The report said the hurricane's impact would be felt for months. 
 ''Even if it's not cold, it's not going to be happy,'' Dave Costello, an economist at the Energy Information Administration, said about the winter.
 A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was selling for $3.042 on average nationwide yesterday morning, little changed from Tuesday but up about 70 cents a gallon from a month ago and $1.20 from a year ago, according to AAA. Prices in some urban areas were around $3.20 yesterday.
 The report from the Energy Department said prices should average $2.57 a gallon in the third quarter and $2.58 in the fourth quarter.
 ''The worst shock -- the $4 prices in some markets, the $3.40, the $3.70 numbers that we saw -- I hope that the worst of that is over,'' said Ben Brockwell, director of pricing and data services at Oil Price Information Service, whose data AAA uses. 
 In an unusual reversal of roles, drivers on the West Coast, which typically has the highest gasoline prices, have been paying some of the lowest prices because the region has its own network of refineries and pipelines. In Los Angeles, prices were averaging $2.98, and Seattle motorists were paying $2.84, according to Brad Proctor, a founder of GasPriceWatch.com, a service that tracks retail prices.
 In futures trading in New York, the price of gasoline for October delivery fell 3.28 cents a gallon yesterday, to $2.022. Crude oil prices fell $1.59 a gallon, to $64.37, and heating oil fell 9.2 cents a gallon, to $1.962.
 Commodities traders and analysts will be watching another Energy Department report expected out this morning that will provide data on crude oil, gasoline and other fuel production and inventories. 
 Of the 10 refineries in the gulf directly affected by the hurricane, 3 have restarted and another should be up in the next month. Of the remaining six, four could take weeks or months to resume production but the other two could start this week. Yesterday, 57 percent of offshore oil production and 40 percent of gas production remained shut down, slightly less than on Tuesday.
 While encouraging, that progress may not comfort consumers facing higher heating bills this winter.
 Analysts say heating oil prices, which were already expected to rise 17 percent this winter before Hurricane Katrina, will be higher still because refiners will have to make up lost gasoline production in the fall, a time when they would have been making more heating fuel.
 ''The fact that we have this downtime at some of these refineries, you will start to see a drawdown in heating oil inventories,'' said Thomas Bentz, an analyst at BNP Paribas.
 The Energy Information Administration reduced its estimate of how much petroleum -- which includes gasoline, jet fuel and other fuels -- the country will consume this year by about 60,000 barrels a day. Average use will still rise by about 100,000 barrels a day, or 0.5 percent.
 If consumers are spending more on fuel, at least some of them will probably spend less on other things, analysts said. Consequently, many economists have reduced their growth forecasts for gross domestic product for the rest of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); FUTURES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Refineries; Heating Fuel; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (91%) Energy Information Administration; Aaa

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



160 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: No Strangers To the Blues

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The tragedy in New Orleans did not occur in a vacuum. There is no way, even in the face of a storm as violent as Katrina, that a great American city should have been reduced to little more than a sewage pit overnight.
 The monumental failure of the federal government to respond immediately and effectively to the catastrophe that resulted from Hurricane Katrina was preceded by many years in which the people of New Orleans (especially its poorest residents) were shamefully neglected by all levels of government.
New Orleans was not a disaster waiting to happen when the screaming winds of Katrina slammed the city with the force of an enemy attack. The disaster was already under way long before Katrina ever existed. The flood that followed the storm, and the Bush administration's ineptitude following the flood, were the blows that sent an already weakened city down for the count. 
 The public school system, for example, is one of the worst in the nation. Forget about educating the children, 96 percent of them black. School officials, enveloped in a bureaucratic fog and the toxic smoke of corruption, do not even know how many people are employed by the system. The budget is a joke. Money had to be borrowed to pay teachers.
 The classroom environment has been chaotic. About 10,000 of the 60,000 students were suspended last year, and nearly 1,000 were expelled. Half of the high school kids fail to graduate in four years. To get a sense of the system's priorities, consider the following from a Times-Picayune editorial last fall:
 ''When it was still unclear which way Hurricane Ivan would go, school system employees on school system time driving school system vehicles using school system materials were sent to board up the superintendent's house.'' 
 That superintendent left (and not a moment too soon), but the abject neglect of the young remained. Long before the hurricane, the children of New Orleans had been failed by the adults responsible for them, starting in many cases with their parents and going right on up through their teachers, city officials, state officials and a national administration that sees the kids mostly as objects -- totems -- to be hugged during campaign photo-ops.
 Crime in New Orleans is another issue that has gotten a lot of attention in Katrina's aftermath. It should have gotten more attention before the hurricane hit. A great deal of the mayhem reported or rumored to have occurred over the past several days appears to have been exaggerated. But New Orleans has long had a serious crime problem. And it has never been properly dealt with.
 A couple of days ago I was talking with a woman named Julia Cass who had fled the flood and settled temporarily in Montgomery, Ala. It turns out that Ms. Cass, a former reporter for The Philadelphia Inquirer, had just completed a paper for the Children's Defense Fund, which is concerned about the effect on children of the chronic violence plaguing New Orleans.
 Ms. Cass noted that as of Aug. 19, there had been 192 murders in the city, an increase of 7 percent over that period last year. (You can get a decent perspective on the violence if you note that New Orleans, with a population of 500,000, had 264 homicides last year, compared with the 572 homicides in New York, which has a population of 8 million.)
 Ms. Cass wrote that in homicide cases in New Orleans, witnesses frequently refuse to come forward, or do not show up at trials. ''The general explanation is that they are afraid,'' she said, ''and with good reason, since the perpetrators too often are not arrested or get out on bail or are never prosecuted or are not convicted. A person who murders another in New Orleans has less than a one in four chance of being convicted.''
 New Orleans had has high rates of illiteracy and high rates of poverty, and long before the hurricane blew in, high rates of children and families with extraordinarily low expectations. In short, much of the city was a mess, and no one was marshaling the considerable resources necessary to help pull its stricken residents out of the trouble of their daily lives.
 Those were the residents who, for the most part, were left behind to suffer and die when the people of means began sprinting toward higher ground. They are the ones who are always left behind, out of sight and out of mind, and I'd be surprised -- given the history of this country -- if that were to change now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); CHILDREN (88%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); WEATHER (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TRENDS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); BUDGETS (71%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (70%); CORRUPTION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



161 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: As Prices Rise, Car-Pooling Begins to Win Out Over Privacy 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The higher the price of gasoline goes, the less Lynn Reeves values her privacy on the long drives back and forth to work.
 When Ms. Reeves, a program manager at the Picatinny Arsenal in northwest New Jersey, sat down a few weeks ago to calculate the cost of her daily commuting from eastern Pennsylvania, she decided her solitude was not worth the $300 it was costing her each month.
 ''I really enjoyed the freedom of my own car until I realized it was just strapping me,'' Ms. Reeves, 45, said in an interview this week. 
 Her first response was to start splitting the driving on the 80-mile round trip with a co-worker. But now she is preparing to share the pain inflicted at the pump with a group of six colleagues in a van subsidized by federal and state programs, which she estimated would reduce their monthly cost of commuting to about $80 each.
 Ever so gradually, the sustained surge in fuel prices over the last few months is motivating commuters to abandon their cars at least temporarily or occasionally, according to transit officials and proponents of car-pooling. The damage wreaked last week by Hurricane Katrina may have created the tipping point by pushing the average price of a gallon of gas above the $3 level throughout the New York City region. (Yesterday, the average price of a gallon of unleaded gas in the city was $3.31, up 56 percent in a year; in New Jersey, it was $3.17, according to the AAA.)
 Officials of the Metro-North Railroad and New Jersey Transit said this week that they believed more people were leaving their cars at home and riding trains and buses to and from work. The railroads will not have the statistical evidence until the end of the month, when the ridership numbers are tallied for September. But the officials said their conductors had been noticing new faces and were more frequently fielding questions usually asked by newcomers.
 Metro-North has received at least a few calls this week from prospective passengers that begin the same way, said Dan Brucker, a spokesman for the railroad. Apparently trying to compare the costs of driving and taking the train, the callers start out by asking if the rising cost of fuel will set off a fare increase, Mr. Brucker said. After hearing that Metro-North has no plans to raise its fares, the callers inquire about how they can buy tickets, find schedules and arrange to park at stations, he said.
 Officials of New Jersey Transit also believe that people have been making the switch to mass transit as the cost of driving has shot up this summer, said Dan Stessel, a spokesman for the transit agency. New Jersey Transit raised its fares by an average of 11.5 percent on July 1, an increase that would reduce ridership by 2 or 3 percent normally, he said. But so far, there has been no measurable decline in the number of passengers, he said.
 Having just put through the second fare increase in three years, New Jersey Transit could nonetheless be squeezed hard by the fuel price rise. The agency's current annual budget assumed its cost for diesel fuel for buses and locomotives would rise more than 40 percent from last year, to $49 million. But at the current rate, its fuel cost is on track to reach $62 million in this fiscal year, Mr. Stessel said.
 ''Obviously, this has the potential to become a problem,'' he said. But he added, ''Some of it may be offset by an increase in ridership.''
 At the end of last week, New Jersey Transit was paying $2.10 a gallon for diesel fuel for its statewide fleet of buses, up 41 percent from a year ago, Mr. Stessel said. Such a sharp rise will surely put the pinch on the various private operators of commuter buses in the state, said Sue Kleinberg, a regulatory officer for New Jersey's Motor Vehicle Commission.
 She said that she had not yet received any requests for fuel surcharges or fare increases from bus operators, but that she would be surprised if they did not start rolling in. The commission allows bus operators to raise fares up to 6 percent in a year after giving customers 30 days' notice, she said.
 ''In the long run, I would think fuel prices would help bus operators'' by pushing more drivers to abandon their cars, Ms. Kleinberg said.
 Still, few bonds are harder to break than those between American drivers and their automobiles. Most commuters have stubbornly clung to their routines despite the sharp increase in the price of gas.
 ''Over the course of the summer, as gasoline prices have been high and inched higher, we as a nation have been consuming gasoline at a ravenous pace,'' said Eric DeGesero, executive vice president of the New Jersey Fuel Merchants Association. ''At least $2.40 gasoline didn't change our habits. Will $3.40 gasoline? That remains to be seen.''
 Joseph D. Smith, a resident of New Haven, is ready to sacrifice some of his independence. Late on Tuesday, Mr. Smith, 28, posted a call on the Internet for car-poolers to help defray some of the cost of his daily round trip to East Hartford, where he works for an office-furniture company.
 ''Gas prices are killing me!!'' he wrote in a message on the ride-share section of craigslist.org, an electronic classified ad site. In an interview, Mr. Smith said the rising cost of fuel had spurred him to sell his Jeep Liberty in February and buy a more economical Volkswagen Golf. But the latest jump in prices, which he said raised his weekly gas bill to $65 from about $50, pushed him to seek a co-pilot.
 ''It's definitely getting to be too much,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (87%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CITIES (70%); HURRICANES (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (51%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Transit Systems; Buses; Railroads; Commuting; Car Pools; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Roads and Traffic

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit; Metro-North Commuter Railroad

INDUSTRY: NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (85%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



162 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE LOSSES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Liability Issue: Wind or Water? 

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT; Andrew C. Revkin contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Even with the full extent of the losses caused by Hurricane Katrina still unknown, a battle over what insurance companies will cover is taking shape around one pivotal question: How much of the damage was due to strong winds and how much due to flooding? 
 For insurers, the answer could mean a difference of billions of dollars in liabilities. Risk Management Solutions in Newark, Calif., has estimated that the hurricane will lead to at least $100 billion in economic losses. Of that, insurers are already expected to pay $20 billion to $35 billion, more than it has paid for any other natural disaster in the country's history.
But property owners are likely to push for a more expansive definition of insurers' liability. A meteorologist at Risk Management said yesterday that the firm was still trying to estimate the potential cost. 
 A majority of businesses and homeowners in the storm-ravaged area have insurance that covers wind damage. While many businesses bought flood insurance as well, relatively few homeowners did. In Orleans Parish, for example, the federal government treated flood insurance as largely optional because of the protection offered by the levees. Only two in five households bought the relatively expensive coverage. 
 While engineers who have dealt with hurricane damage in the past say they can determine whether the destruction was from wind or water, no one has yet been able to assess the situation in New Orleans.
 At a meeting yesterday in Atlanta with more than 300 representatives of the insurance industry, the issue of wind versus water damage ''was probably the pink elephant standing in the middle of the room,'' said J. Robert Wooley, Louisiana's insurance commissioner, who organized the meeting. 
 While the issue comes into play whenever a hurricane hits, the stakes have never been as high for the industry as they are now, said Robert W. Klein, director of the Center for Risk Management and Insurance Research at the Robinson College of Business at Georgia State University. And so, Mr. Klein said, insurers are more likely to protect their interests. 
 ''This is an overall bigger event,'' he said. ''Given the number of dollars involved, and just the nature of how things developed, it is a potential area of dispute that may get more heated.'' 
 He added, ''There's motivation to take a particular position, as opposed to more of a give and take.''
 Mr. Wooley, the insurance commissioner, said he convened the meeting yesterday to try to head off disputes over coverage. Although he said afterward that much remained to be resolved, he said he felt that the lines of communication were open. 
 ''I saw the same spirit of cooperation that you saw after 9/11,'' he said. ''I expect them to respond to this event in the same manner.'' 
 The companies easily could have said the attacks were acts of war excluded from coverage, he said, ''but they didn't.'' 
 In the end, he said, the only major legal dispute was over whether the destruction of the World Trade Center constituted one or two attacks. A federal jury concluded last December that there were two.
 Can the question of wind damage versus flooding also lead to a court battle? ''I think it's a little too early to say,'' Mr. Wooley said.
 Greg LaCost, who attended the meeting as a representative of the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America, complimented Mr. Wooley's effort. ''Robert's doing a good job at balancing all the different interests here, because it's a hard balance right now,'' Mr. LaCost said. ''He's balancing consumers' interests against the interests of insurance companies trying to stay afloat there.'' 
 Michael Costonis, an insurance consultant at Accenture, said the future of some of the companies ''will be determined by whose responsibility it is in the end.'' 
 ''Who's actually on the hook to foot the bill -- is it the insurance carrier or is it the government?'' he said.
 He added: ''It's the age-old question, but it's going to be a much more significant challenge than what we'd seen in Florida. They're going to have to rebuild a city.''
 J. Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America and former Texas insurance commissioner, said that the issue was more than a financial one. 
 ''The insurance companies have a moral issue, really, because the more they say it's flooding, the less they have to pay up,'' Mr. Hunter said. ''It's hard for you to prove it happened, but it's hard for the insurance company to prove it didn't.''
 But engineers say they can pinpoint whether the damage after a hurricane was from wind or surging water.
 ''Wind is typically a top-down thing, with roof tiles missing and rainwater getting in and damaging a ceiling,'' said Timothy P. Marshall, a damage inspector from the Houston consulting firm Haag Engineering with degrees in structural engineering and meteorology. ''Water is bottom up. And the nice thing about floods or storm surges is they leave a still-water line in a building, like a bath tub.''
 Mr. Marshall, who was preparing yesterday to fly to Mississippi to inspect several devastated casinos, said property owners there had a tendency to focus on wind coverage because flood insurance in coastal areas is often limited. 
 Nonetheless, he added, disputes between insurers and owners rarely persist once each side hires an engineer. ''We've done 1,500 jobs in Hurricane Ivan alone and only a handful go to court,'' Mr. Marshall said. ''The physics is there. It's either top down or bottom up.''
 In a case where a house or building was torn from its foundation and splintered, as has happened along many parts of the Gulf Coast, engineers still can usually figure out what was done by wind or water. 
 Mr. Marshall said that anchor bolts holding walls to a foundation bend, showing which direction force was exerted on a structure. Engineers can also compare the elevation of a foundation above sea level to estimates of storm surges based on eyewitness accounts, nearby evidence of flooding and the like. Water, he said, is the element most likely to blame when a coastal house is dislodged from its foundation.
 At the meeting in Atlanta, the commissioner also distributed a wish list of emergency measures that Louisiana wants the insurers to adopt. Among them is a provision that would prevent companies from canceling coverage until the state of emergency is lifted. Before being able to change coverage in any way, the industry may have to wait until there is a national registry of evacuees, he said..
 The insurers will consider the proposal and make their own suggestions over the next week, Mr. Wooley said. He expects to be able to finalize them by Sept. 18. 
 Other insurance questions also came up at the meeting yesterday. The states want health insurers to continue to provide coverage for the next few weeks, for example, but some insurance firms are protesting that many businesses will never recover to pay them back. 
 The attendees also discussed the convention of using separate insurance adjusters to assess wind damage and water damage. The consensus seemed to be that using one adjuster would streamline the process and make it less contentious.
 Some people may not even remember their insurance carrier, only the name and office location of their insurance agents. That has not been a problem after other disasters because most agents are able to return to their offices soon. 
 Lorrie Brouse, regional counsel for Allstate's Southern region, which includes Louisiana and Mississippi, said a huge range of issues was raised at the meeting. ''I think the industry realizes,'' Ms. Brouse said, ''that there are going to be unique coverage questions we haven't dealt with before.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wind and water damage in a section of Empire, La., a week after Hurricane Katrina brought devastation to a broad swath of the Gulf Coast. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Paperwork at the Atlanta meeting detailing guidelines and proposals for dealing with Hurricane Katrina issues.
 J. Robert Wooley, Louisiana's insurance commissioner, during a meeting he organized yesterday in Atlanta with more than 300 representatives of the insurance industry. Wind versus water was a prime topic. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); TROPICAL STORMS (92%); INSURANCE (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); HISTORY (74%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Wind; Insurance; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: Risk Management Solutions

PERSON: Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



163 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Stopping The Buck At City Hall

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS are a spoiled lot. They have learned that they have to be, that they have to set the bar high when it comes to their leaders -- much higher than people in some other parts of the country do, as the awful events on the Gulf Coast suggest.
 It's a good model to emulate, America, because local comes before federal. If the federal government fails, as it did in getting crucial early help to New Orleans, it makes a difference if the local government is functioning. 
There will be multiple investigations of this disaster, but it is already known that Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans ordered people to evacuate but did not provide them with a means to get out, and failed to get services, even water, to the Superdome after people were directed to seek refuge there. If something thwarted the mayor's leadership, how about Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana?
 Both did complain loudly about Washington and were heard, helped by television images that showed inhumane suffering -- and that proved reporters could get to places where emergency workers did not. 
 A disaster of this magnitude demanded rapid federal intervention and strong presidential direction, missing for days. But if Washington had moved quickly and decisively, wouldn't federal authorities, who could not be expected to know a parish from a precinct, have benefited from local direction? 
 As mayor of New Orleans, Mr. Nagin -- he of the candidly crass language and displays of gum chewing on national television -- has the power to direct his city's emergency services. New Orleans has a strong mayoralty, with powers similar to New York's. Theoretically, anyway.
 Imagine that during a crisis, New York City's police commissioner offered officers and their families five days off immediately to recover -- in Las Vegas if desired -- as the New Orleans police superintendent did. He'd be hooted out of town, and surely dismissed by the mayor.
 Over the years, New Yorkers learned to reject mediocrity because they saw its sorry consequences. But when New York's mayors fail the tough tests that inevitably come with the job, the public ejects them. 
 Actually, voters are pretty tolerant, wise enough to discount those plummy campaign promises and claims of mastery over broad tasks that are beyond local control, like creating jobs or managing the economy. New Yorkers discount the hyperbole and focus on the big things -- political judgment, safe streets and strong finances. Incumbents found wanting usually don't get to stay around. 
 In 1977, Mayor Abraham D. Beame lost re-election after a term marred by a fiscal crisis and lawlessness during a summer blackout. His predecessor, John V. Lindsay, had a troubled first term, too, but in 1968, when many American cities erupted in riots, Mr. Lindsay walked the streets of Harlem, and kept New York relatively calm. Helped, too, by weak opposition, he won re-election.
 Years later, though, voters blamed David N. Dinkins for rising crime and days of unchecked violence during the riots in Crown Heights. The next election, Mr. Dinkins out, Rudolph W. Giuliani in. 
 SOME things are taken for granted in New York. The day before Hurricane Gloria threatened to hit the city in 1985, Mayor Edward I. Koch set up a command center, alerted the relevant authorities and designated several schools as shelters. Later he knocked on doors to persuade residents living near the ocean to leave for higher ground. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo placed the National Guard on alert. 
 Since the worst of Gloria bypassed the city, it's impossible to know if the planning would have been adequate. But the mayor and governor were out there.
 Comparisons between Katrina and Sept. 11 are inevitable, especially between the lack of leadership now and Mr. Giuliani's commanding performance then. The parallels are inexact. The terrorist attack was geographically contained, while flooding made most of New Orleans uninhabitable and disrupted communications and power. 
 Communications problems hampered rescue operations on Sept. 11, but Mr. Giuliani could reach masses of people over television. And New Orleans suffered from panic and lawlessness. New York did not.
 But Sept. 11 showed the importance of political leadership. No question. Someone was firmly in charge.
 New York City is still, for many Americans, the them in them-and-us. But as the nation learned nearly four years ago, and might be reminding itself today, when it comes to the big stuff, this city seems to get it right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); WEATHER (75%); HURRICANES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); RIOTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); CITY LIFE (64%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Gloria (Storm)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (56%) Joyce Purnick; C Ray (Mayor) Nagin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); LOUISIANA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La); New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



164 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Report Cites U.S. and Japan as the 'Least Generous Donors'

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
A week before world leaders gather here to set a course for combating global poverty, a United Nations report released on Wednesday names the United States and Japan as among ''the least generous donors'' and says American and European trade policies are hypocritical and contribute to impoverishing African farmers.
 The report also highlights shortcomings in developing countries. It notes that India's and China's progress in reducing the easily preventable deaths of children has slowed even as their economic growth has surged. India has 2.5 million deaths of children a year, while China is second, with 730,000. 
The new document, the annual Human Development Report, calls on India and China to tackle health inequalities aggressively. It also maintains that rich countries must significantly increase aid if the goals they agreed to five years ago -- to halve extreme poverty and reduce deaths of children by two-thirds by 2015, among others -- are to be met. 
 The report was unusual for the United Nations in so specifically describing the deficiencies of rich countries' policies. It was commissioned by the United Nations Development Program and written by a team of experts led by Kevin Watkins, former director of research for the charity Oxfam.
 While crediting the United States with being the world's largest donor, the report points out that among the world's richest countries, America is second to last in aid as a portion of its national income, with Italy bringing up the rear. Japan was third from the bottom. Aid per capita from donors ranges from more than $200 in Sweden to $51 in the United States and $37 in Italy.
 Richard Grenell, a spokesman for the United States at the United Nations, disputed the idea that the United States is stingy. ''Let me remind the authors that President Bush has increased overall development assistance from the United States by 90 percent since he took office,'' he said.
 The report notes that rich countries trumpet the virtues of open markets and free trade, even as they put up protectionist barriers against goods from poor countries and spend hundreds of billions on subsidies that benefit large-scale farmers, landowners and agribusiness. 
 ''Industrial countries are locked into a system that wastes money at home and destroys livelihoods abroad,'' the report says.
 It singles out the European Union for a policy ''that lavishes $51 billion in support on producers.'' It also criticizes the United States for paying an estimated $4.7 billion to 20,000 cotton farmers in 2005, more than the total of American aid to Africa, a policy that the report contends gives American producers an unfair advantage over small farmers in Burkina Faso and Mali.
 The report also criticizes China and India for their policies. In China, the erosion of public health care has worsened the situation of the rural poor, it says. In India, it adds, inadequate public health services mean most children are not fully immunized against diseases in the hugely populous northern states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
 ''Were India to show the same level of dynamism and innovation in tackling basic health inequalities as it has displayed in global technology markets, it could rapidly get on track for achieving'' the targets set in 2005, the report says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); BUDGETS (75%); AGRICULTURE (72%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); COTTON FARMING (72%); WRITERS (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (55%) United Nations

PERSON: Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (94%); INDIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWEDEN (92%); MALI (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) Japan; Sweden; Italy; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



165 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: New Angel To Keep Met Opera On the Air

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Opera's radio broadcasts, which have spread the gospel of opera for more than seven decades but were threatened by a lack of financing, have won a temporary reprieve. 
 A home-building company made flush by the housing boom has agreed to sponsor them, the Met said yesterday. The company, Toll Brothers, is making a rare foray into high-art philanthropy with the hope of adding a classy note to its image.
Started in 1931, the Saturday broadcasts have been teetering on the brink of extinction since ChevronTexaco withdrew its support in 2003, eliciting grief from opera lovers and singers who received their first taste of the art form from them. 
 Joseph Volpe, the Met's general manager, said yesterday that he could not guarantee the broadcasts' survival for more than four years, based on Toll Brothers' initial commitment and other money raised. But he said he hoped the company's support could be extended. ''We're relatively secure,'' he said.
 Neither Mr. Volpe nor the company would elaborate on the gift, a sign of the home builder's nervousness about what it said was its first act of cultural philanthropy. ''They want to be cautious,'' Mr. Volpe suggested.
 The broadcasts cost about $6 million a season, Mr. Volpe said. When asked if the company was paying a majority share, he would respond only, ''It's a major portion.'' He said the support would last for a ''limited initial term.''
 A fund started by Beverly Sills, then the Met's chairwoman, to save the broadcasts has about $14 million, he said. The five-year goal of $150 million has been abandoned, Mr. Volpe said. The Annenberg Foundation and the Vincent A. Stabile Foundation are also supporters.
 Home building has less often been associated with support of the arts than finance, energy and pharmaceutical companies. But residential housing, loosely defined, is the American economy's largest slice, accounting for 16 percent of the gross domestic product, or nearly $2 trillion.
 Robert I. Toll, Toll Brothers' chairman and chief executive, made it clear that he hoped supporting the Met would burnish the company's image, both with the public and with Wall Street, which, he said, undervalues the company's stock.
 ''There's an image to be overcome that's negative,'' he said of the home-building industry in a telephone interview. ''One thinks of a guy in a flannel shirt in a pickup with a gun rack.'' Supporting the Met will also help the company's image with investors and analysts, he said.
 ''What more perfect marriage for a branding effort than to associate yourself with the Met Opera?'' Mr. Toll said. ''It's got to be one of the classiest products you could think of.''
 Toll Brothers is No.10 in terms of revenue among home-building companies but calls itself the leading builder of luxury homes. The average cost of its houses is in the mid-$600,000's, the company said. 
 ''I think it's a perfect opportunity for us to explain to our clientele what we seek when we offer to be the builder of their new home,'' Mr. Toll said.
 Based in Horsham, Pa., a Philadelphia suburb, Toll Brothers operates in 20 states. Mr. Toll and his brother Bruce founded the company in 1967. It went public in 1986 and reported revenue for the fiscal year that ended Oct. 31, 2004, of $3.9 billion. Net income was put at $409 million, with projected growth for this fiscal year estimated at 80 percent. 
 The sponsorship came about, Mr. Toll said, because a friend of his on the Met board and another friend on his company board separately suggested that the company provide support. 
 Mr. Toll, 64, said his interest in opera came late in life, when his wife took him to a performance. ''I said, 'Hey, this is spectacular,''' he recalled. '''Listen to these guys sing. Listen to those girls go.' It's spectacular entertainment and a spectacular art form.''
 About 330 radio stations carry the Met broadcasts, which, the house said, reach 11 million people in 42 countries. The first this season is on Dec. 17, a performance of ''Rigoletto'' with Anna Netrebko and Rolando Villazon. The Met reduced the yearly cost of producing the broadcasts to $6 million from about $7 million by cutting off payments to commercial stations. The payments used to offset revenue from commercials displaced by the broadcasts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); OPERA (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (61%); BRANDING (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) Opera; Philanthropy; Radio

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Opera; Toll Brothers Inc

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (56%) Joseph Volpe; Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



166 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: 2 Airlines Race Against Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By Micheline Maynard

 BODY:
TWO airlines in crisis -- Delta and Northwest -- took steps yesterday aimed at gaining some breathing room in their attempts to avoid seeking bankruptcy protection.
 Delta Air Lines, considered the sicker of the pair, said it would sell 11 Boeing 767-200 series jets for $190 million. It also said it would reduce flights from its hub in Cincinnati by 26 percent, a move that would eliminate 1,000 jobs.
Northwest, meanwhile, said it planned to resume talks today in Washington with the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, which struck the airline on Aug. 20. The union confirmed the negotiations on its telephone hotline. 
 Northwest, which has been operating with replacement workers, supervisors and contractors, also told the union it was prepared to give permanent jobs to the substitutes starting Tuesday. In that event, striking workers would not be entitled to get their jobs back even if the sides settle their dispute.
 Investors' reaction to the developments was mixed. Shares of Delta remained unchanged, at $1.12; shares of Northwest fell 22 cents, to $3.37.
 Both airlines have warned they will have to seek bankruptcy protection if they cannot cut costs drastically -- and soon. 
 A filing by Delta could come as early as midmonth, many industry executives, finance experts and analysts say. Delta is facing a severe cash crisis, even though it has spent the last year restructuring its operations.
 ''It looks to me like the initial stage of the Chapter 11 process is beginning, even before they are in court,'' said William T. Warlick, an airline industry analyst with Fitch Ratings.
 Yesterday, Delta said it had agreed to sell 11 Boeing 767-200 series jets to ABX Air Inc., previously known as Airborne, for $190 million.
 Delta said it would stop flying the planes on Dec. 1. ABX, which purchased another Boeing 767 from Delta earlier this summer, will turn them into cargo planes. 
 Like other airlines, Delta has been hit hard by the rapid rise in the price of jet fuel this year, including a 25 percent spike after Hurricane Katrina interrupted production at Louisiana refineries last week. 
 Delta has been striving to cut $5 billion in costs through the end of next year. It barely avoided a bankruptcy filing 11 months ago, when its pilots agreed to grant $1 billion in wage and benefit cuts. 
 ''Unfortunately, the high cost of fuel -- now made worse by catastrophic devastation to the Gulf Coast -- continues to outpace and mask our progress,'' James M. Whitehurst, Delta's chief operating officer, said in a message to employees yesterday.
 ''Because of the extreme seriousness of our financial situation, it is critically important that we continue to step up the pace of our transformation,'' he continued.
 The 1,000 job cuts are in addition to Delta's plan to cut 7,000 positions through next year. But a Delta spokeswoman, Chris E. Kelly, said workers in Cincinnati would be allowed to bid for open positions within the airline. 
 Along with the cuts, Delta said it was eliminating some nonstop flights from Cincinnati to various destinations, including Islip on Long Island; Baton Rouge, La.; and Montgomery, Ala.
 Delta said it would shift more flights to its regional carriers: Comair, which is based in Cincinnati, and Atlantic Southeast Airlines. It also said it would add or expand service to 41 international destinations, following a trend among big airlines.
 Delta announced a deal last month to sell Atlantic Southeast to another of its regional carriers, SkyWest, for $425 million. Officials at the airline are scurrying to close the deal, which would provide Delta with cash that could be used for operations under bankruptcy protection. 
 Last month, Delta confirmed that it had begun arranging the financing it would need in the event of a bankruptcy filing.
 Northwest has warned it, too, could seek bankruptcy protection, unless it is quickly able to win at least $1.1 billion in concessions from its labor unions. Its pilots, who have already agreed to $265 million in cuts, said last week that they would open a new round of talks on another $322 million in wage and benefit concessions.
 Northwest had sought $176 million in cuts from the mechanics' union, whose 4,430 members walked off the job almost three weeks ago. In a letter to the union, the airline said yesterday that its last offer would no longer be on the table.
 Like Delta, Northwest is facing soaring fuel costs. In its letter, sent Tuesday, the airline said it expected to spend $3.3 billion on fuel this year, 50 percent more than in 2005. 
 And, it said it expected a loss of $350 million to $400 million for the third quarter, in addition to the $771 million lost in the first half of 2005. 
 Even so, Mr. Warlick at Fitch said there was still hope. If Northwest can get the labor cuts quickly, ''they stand a chance to stay out'' of bankruptcy protection, he said.
 There was better news from United Airlines, which has operated under bankruptcy protection since December 2002. It filed a long-awaited plan of reorganization with the United States Bankruptcy Court in Chicago.
 In the plan, United, a unit of UAL, said that it expected to emerge from court protection by Feb. 1, which would be three years, one month and 22 days after it filed for bankruptcy. The airline said it expected to obtain a $2.5 billion all-debt package to finance its restructuring plan.
 But there was no guarantee that the plan, which is subject to a vote by United's creditors, would be final by then. For one thing, the plan assumes that oil would average $50 a barrel over the next few years, well below its recent levels. 
 United originally hoped to reorganize with federally backed loan guarantees, but the Air Transportation Stabilization Board rejected its application for a final time in June 2004, saying it believed that the airline could obtain financing elsewhere.
 United's creditors originally filed 40,000 claims totaling $3.6 trillion against the airline, but the figure has been whittled in bankruptcy to about $45 billion


GRAPHIC: Photo: Delta Air Lines said it would reduce flights from its hub in Cincinnati by 26 percent, a move that would eliminate 1,000 jobs. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); AIRLINES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); STRIKES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); JET FUEL (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); PORT STRIKES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); HURRICANES (61%); HURRICANE KATRINA (61%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Bankruptcies; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Organized Labor; Airlines and Airplanes; Strikes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (96%); BOEING CO (85%); AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES GROUP INC (66%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines; Northwest Airlines; ABX Air Inc; Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Assn

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (96%); BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); ATSG (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (66%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (66%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%) Cincinnati (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



167 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: In Times of Stress, Can Religion Serve as Insurance?

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

 BODY:
FROM layoffs to bad health to killer hurricanes, economic well-being is subject to all sorts of nasty shocks. To protect themselves, people accumulate savings and buy insurance.
 But these formal strategies are not the only ways to guard against sudden hard times. Social networks -- families and friends -- also provide critical safety nets. 
Economists are increasingly interested in the role of such networks in economic life. They want to understand ''the way that an individual's social connections somehow translate into an economically valuable tool,'' Rajeev Dehejia, a Columbia University economist currently visiting at Harvard, said in an interview.
 In particular, he and other economists have recently begun to examine how, in addition to any spiritual or otherworldly benefits, religious affiliation may serve as a kind of insurance.
 With two co-authors, Thomas DeLeire of Michigan State and the Congressional Budget Office, and Erzo F.P. Luttmer of Harvard, Professor Dehejia takes up the question in a new working paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research. (The paper, titled ''Insuring Consumption and Happiness Through Religious Organizations,'' is available at columbia.edu/rd247/papers/Dehejia--DeLeire--Luttmer.pdf. 
 The paper uses two sets of data, measuring two different kinds of well-being, to address the question. In the first, the economists use the government's authoritative Consumer Expenditure Survey to see how a household's spending changes when income changes. Since the survey records whether respondents contribute to religious groups, the researchers use that as their marker of religious participation.
 ''About 40 percent of households make a contribution to a religious organization and these contributions represent about 1.2 percent of household income,'' they write.
 Looking at spending before and after income goes up or down, the economists found that religious households have less volatile consumption. Their spending fluctuates about 30 percent less than spending by similar, nonreligious households.
 Interestingly, the researchers note, this insurance effect shows up most among people who give relatively little to religious groups. ''Our baseline results,'' they write, ''are driven to a large extent by households that contribute less than $400 annually.'' That is less surprising than it might seem, because the households that benefit are themselves relatively poor.''
 The effect is strongest for whites, where religious affiliation ''buffers consumption against roughly 35 percent of the impact of income shocks,'' they write. The result for blacks is not statistically significant but points in the same direction, perhaps, the economists speculate, because black congregations are more likely to provide nonfinancial support like child care or meals.
 The second part of their study looks not at spending but at a more direct measure of well-being: how respondents assess their personal happiness.
 After all, Professor Dehejia said, ''If you take the doctrine of religion seriously, then what religion actually does is it doesn't insure your income but it changes how you react to the negative shocks you face.''
 Here, the economists use the National Survey of Families and Households which, among other questions, asks respondents to rate their happiness on a seven-point scale. Because the survey interviewed the same people in 1987-88 and 1992-94, the economists can compare how the same people responded over time.
 Unlike the consumption survey, which records only donations, this one has more detail on religious beliefs and activities. (It does not, however, measure gifts.)
 Using religious attendance as their measure of affiliation, the economists get a strikingly different result by race. While whites get no significant ''happiness insurance'' from religious affiliation, blacks get a lot.
 ''The median level of religious attendance reduces the happiness impact of income shocks by blacks by about 75 percent,'' they write. The effect is greatest among those with a high school education or less.
 The puzzle, said Professor Dehejia in the interview, is not why blacks benefit but why whites do not. ''Why is it that among whites you see a significant insurance effect on consumption but not on happiness?'' he asked. Perhaps, he speculated, whites feel guilty about the help they get.
 The results are about the same for religious belief as for attendance, since the two are so closely connected. The economists note, however, that attendance matters most. ''Just believing is not sufficient; one needs to participate in a religious organization to get happiness insurance,'' they find.
 As for Hurricane Katrina, Professor Dehejia noted that the disaster had probably disrupted congregations too much for them to provide much financial support.
 But thinking of the hurricane as ''a huge negative income shock,'' he said, ''If you believe our results literally, what they would say is that religious individuals should be less hurt in terms of their sense of well-being, that religion is going to help people come through it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WEATHER (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); STATISTICS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); WRITERS (68%) Religion and Churches; Stress (Human)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%) Michigan State University; Harvard University

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Thomas DeLeire; Rajeev Dehejia; Erzo F P Luttmer

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



168 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Shares Post Modest Gains as Crude Oil Futures Decline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A drop in crude oil futures pushed stocks modestly higher yesterday, helped by government predictions of lower gasoline prices.
 Wall Street was encouraged when oil prices fell below $65 a barrel as more Gulf Coast production facilities resumed operations and traders saw that Katrina's damage to petroleum infrastructure was less than originally feared. A barrel of light crude settled at $64.37, down $1.59, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Large-cap stocks got a bounce after the Energy Information Administration, part of the Energy Department, said yesterday morning that it expected retail gasoline prices in the United States to fall to $2.58 a gallon in the fourth quarter. The administration also cut its forecasts for growth in domestic oil demand this year and next, saying higher costs would deter consumption. 
 Stocks moved in a narrow band, but trading was choppy as investors took each piece of news and tried to parse the aftereffects of Hurricane Katrina.
 ''To an extent, we're all just groping in the dark to make sense of all the news, all the stories, all the data,'' said Jack Caffrey, an equities strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank. ''So much of the data from prior months has been obsoleted by last week. What are the ripple effects? What will the costs be on a cost front, a delivery front and a psychology front?''
 Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 44.26 points, or 0.42 percent, to 10,633.50. On Tuesday, the Dow rose 141.87, its best one-day gain since July 8.
 Broader stock indicators were slightly higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.97 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,236.36, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 5.17 points, or 0.24 percent, to 2,172.03.
 Bonds continued the previous session's sell-off, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.14 percent, from 4.10 percent on Tuesday.
 The S.&P. 500 and Nasdaq composite fell in morning trading after the Department of Labor revised second-quarter productivity growth down to a 1.8 percent annual rate instead of the 2.2 percent in a preliminary report. The department also reported an increase in labor costs, to 2.5 percent, from the 1.3 percent in its preliminary report.
 Higher wages are one of the indicators of inflation the Federal Reserve will weigh as it considers its interest rate policy. A speech by the Chicago Federal Reserve president, Michael H. Moskow, in which he said the Fed would ''take appropriate monetary policies to keep inflation well contained'' was also a blow to traders waiting for rate hikes to end.
 Shares in the Kerr-McGee Corporation rose $1.37, to $90.27, after it said its deepwater oil facilities in the central and western gulf were producing at prehurricane levels.
 Delta Air Lines was unchanged at $1.12 after it said it was reducing capacity at its Cincinnati hub by 26 percent while increasing international service and making other changes in an effort to become more efficient. Delta, the nation's third-largest carrier, is fighting to avoid bankruptcy.
 Shares in Albertson's, the nation's second-largest supermarket chain, fell 27 cents, to $23.13, after it said its second-quarter earnings edged up 3 percent from last year, missing Wall Street's expectations. The company said last week it was considering putting itself up for sale.
 The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of five-year notes and one-month bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price -- 99.878
High Yield -- 3.902
Low Yield -- 3.850
Median Yield -- 3.878
Total applied for -- $33,967,655
Accepted -- $13,000,035
Noncompetitive -- $42,635
Interest set at -- 3
*The five-year notes mature Sept. 15, 2010.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price -- 99.747
High Rate -- 3.245
Coupon Yield -- 3.298
Low Rate -- 3.200
Median Rate -- 3.230
Total applied for -- $33,591,513
Accepted -- $13,841,788
Noncompetitive -- $133,385
The four-week bills mature Oct. 06, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); HURRICANES (72%); STATISTICS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); MONETARY POLICY (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



169 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Bring Out Your Pork

 BODY:
Fair warning to the suffering Gulf Coast masses: Congress is already talking of concocting ''economic stimulus'' and ''job creation'' packages as hurricane recovery tools. That sounds useful, but unfortunately those terms usually signal that the House and the Senate are about to use the crisis of the moment to roll out wasteful tax cuts for the well-off and pork barrel outlays for hometown voters.
 The overwhelming need of the victims of Hurricane Katrina, coupled with the nation's shock at government ineptitude, should inspire members of Congress to sober up and become something approaching responsible policy makers. If they do decide to reform, there's an easy way to prove it. They could turn in their pork. 
This summer, when Congress had to ignore only a war in Iraq, it passed the annual highway bill, repackaged as a job-creation measure. The legislation set a record of $24 billion in 6,371 ''earmark amendments'' -- the route individual lawmakers take to lock in prized projects for their home districts, regardless of proven need.
 The bipartisan boondoggles that made it under the wire included vanity highways, tourist sidewalks, snowmobile trails, a ''deer avoidance'' plan and a graffiti elimination program for New York. Those wishing to look for still more unnecessary spending can consider the White House's $130-billion-and-counting missile defense system, which remains thoroughly inoperable. 
 Hurricane Katrina cries out to Congress for something other than business as usual. Imagine what would happen if each member of Congress announced that he or she would give up a prize slab of bacon so the government would be able to use the money to shelter hurricane victims and rebuild New Orleans. The public would -- for once -- have proof that politicians are capable of setting priorities and showing respect for the concept of a budget. 
 Surely Representative Don Young, the Alaska Republican who is chairman of the transportation committee, might put off that $223 million ''bridge to nowhere'' in his state's outback. It's redundant now -- Louisiana suddenly has several bridges to nowhere. Likewise, Speaker Dennis Hastert could defer his prized Prairie Parkway, a $200-million-plus project dismissed as a behemoth Sprawlway by hometown critics, and use the money to repair the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway.
 The Democratic minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, could afford to donate back some multimillion-dollar plums -- just one bike and pedestrian overpass, perhaps, or a ferry terminal. Another Democratic standout, James Oberstar of Minnesota, would have a hard time choosing from his cornucopia, but that $2.7 million for what is already described as the nation's longest paved recreational trail looks ripe. 
 The list is long. Such a gesture by the Capitol's patronage first responders would encourage a sense of shared sacrifice in the nation. Members might actually be surprised to see how many of their own constituents are prepared to think of other people's needs before themselves. This page has been a longtime supporter of a freight tunnel between New Jersey and New York -- which, we should point out, is actually a tunnel to somewhere. But we'd applaud a delay in the $100 million for freight-tunnel design studies that was included in the highway bill if it was part of a larger reordering of priorities.
 It's time to put New Orleans first.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WEATHER (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Editorials; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: JIM OBERSTAR (58%); DON YOUNG (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) New Orleans (La); United States

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



170 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Productivity vs. Low Skill

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Corinne Maier notes that ''in many years French workers have a higher productivity rate than their American counterparts'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 5).
Indeed. But Mme. Maier should be ashamed of this statistic, for it's an artifact of the same policies that produce France's double-digit unemployment rate.
 Burdensome French labor regulations make it unprofitable to hire the lowest-skilled workers, thus ensuring that only higher-skilled workers get jobs. The result is higher average worker productivity than in America, where low-skilled workers find work more easily.
 France's celebrated high rate of worker productivity is cruelly produced on the backs of its unemployed masses.

Donald J. Boudreaux
Fairfax, Va., Sept. 5, 2005

The writer is chairman of the economics department at George Mason University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (54%) Labor; Productivity

PERSON: Donald J Boudreaux; Corinne Maier

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) France

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



171 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: A Trial Run Finds Hong Kong Disneyland Much Too Popular for Its Modest Size 

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
When the Walt Disney Company opened a European theme park on the outskirts of Paris in 1992, the park struggled to attract enough visitors, and the ones who came spent less than expected.
 The new Hong Kong Disneyland, scheduled to open to the public on Monday, faces a quite different problem: too many guests, too many of whom clog restaurants while ordering long, expensive meals.
A charity day on Sunday that was supposed to test the park's ability to run at near-capacity of 30,000 people turned into a fiasco of hourlong lines for rides, food shortages, inadequate parking and even the temporary closing of an area of the park because of overcrowding. The English and Chinese-language media here have been full of unfavorable coverage of the park's modest size, and the financial secretary of Hong Kong, Henry Tang, has suggested that Disney reconsider how many people the park can really hold. 
 ''Of course we do not want to spoil the fun of the visitors by making them queue for a long time,'' Mr. Tang said the other day, ''or they may not be used to queuing for so long. That's why we are discussing with Disney to see if we could have flexible arrangements, like during certain days when the number of people entering the park reaches a certain figure, they should not let the park become too crowded.''
 The criticism has evidently irked Disney. Stopped during a park tour on Wednesday, a group of Disney executives interrupted each other repeatedly in expressing indignation. 
 ''To take one day where there were 30,000 people and say, 'Oh my gosh' would be inappropriate,'' said Michael Mendenhall, executive vice president for global marketing in Disney's parks and resorts division, saying that on most days the park would have fewer visitors.
 And Zenia Mucha, Disney's senior vice president for corporate communications, said with some energy, ''The press has made it about size -- it has never been about size.''
 The park here is considerably smaller than the original Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., or Disneyland Paris. The more modest scale is part of a recent company strategy to open theme parks in phases instead of trying to build an extensive park all at once, as was done in Paris and at Orlando, Fla., with Disney World. A second phase of construction is under discussion between the Hong Kong government, which owns 57 percent of Hong Kong Disneyland, and Walt Disney, which owns the rest.
 The park, which will charge $45 for adults on weekends and $38 on weekdays, was open again Wednesday afternoon for another rehearsal day, the latest of 17 test days before the planned public opening on Monday. Its modest size meant that it was possible to stroll at a leisurely pace from the end of Main Street past all the rides in Adventureland, Fantasyland and Tomorrowland and back to Main Street in 10 minutes without stopping along the way.
 Hong Kong Disneyland has only one roller coaster, Space Mountain, and it is so tame that any child taller than 3 feet 4 inches is allowed to ride it. Most rides are gentle, like the spinning Mad Hatter's Tea Cups or the Cinderella Carousel. That may have reflected Disney research showing that tourists from mainland China in particular wanted a fairly tame experience. 
 Visitors on Wednesday seemed to have varying reactions, with those from the mainland voicing greater enthusiasm than impatient Hong Kong residents. The mainland, with 1.3 billion people, is Disney's real target, and people's expectations there may be lower, especially as the fading vestiges of central planning have left many Chinese accustomed to long lines.
 Wu He-yan -- a 26-year-old woman who said she grew up on a farm in Guangdong Province nearby and recently used the family's savings to open a small Internet cafe in the provincial capital, Guangzhou -- toured the park on Wednesday after winning a free visit from the pull tab of a Coca-Cola can. Clutching a Minnie Mouse purse that she said had been her companion for a year, Ms. Wu waited in line for 15 minutes for the Jungle Cruise and said that she did not even consider Space Mountain because it might be too scary.
 ''Compared with Guangzhou, the lines here are very short,'' she said after watching the robotic zebras, elephants, gorillas, giraffes and other mechanical animals along the banks during the cruise. The number of mainland Chinese visiting Hong Kong has quintupled since the park was designed in 1999, as officials in Beijing have eased exit-visa requirements for their citizens.
 But Louie Kwan, a 30-year-old worker at a Hong Kong soy sauce factory, was less enthusiastic than Ms. Wu, as he fanned himself with a park map and waited in a long line with his wife, Wang Wei, to be photographed with Goofy and Pluto.
 Mr. Kwan said that Disneyland was less interesting than Ocean Park, the local amusement park. The cars inside Space Mountain ''just keep turning round and round but not going up and down, so it's not exciting,'' he said.
 Rae Ho, 18, a student and Hong Kong resident, said that she had been to Tokyo Disneyland and found it roomier, but still liked the park here. ''This one in Hong Kong is quite small,'' she said. ''It is smaller than in Tokyo, but it is quite comfortable.''
 David Camp, director of the London office of Economics Research Associates, an entertainment consulting firm, said that building theme parks in stages was an effective way to control investment costs. But such parks sometimes suffered by comparison with bigger parks elsewhere, he warned.
 The crowds here could certainly prove profitable for Disney. Mr. Mendenhall said that visitors were staying twice as long in restaurants as visitors to the company's American theme parks, because they savored their food longer and ordered more of it.
 Mr. Tang said that in the last three weeks the park had added 20 mobile food carts and 600 more seats in dining areas to try to meet demand.
 Disney made a point of trying to address local sensibilities here, laying out the park along lines suggested by a feng shui master. But the company kept a heavily American tone to most of it, starting with the Main Street area, and this decision seems to have been popular: the Main Street Corner Cafe had a 45-minute wait for a table at 2:15 on Wednesday afternoon, while the Plaza Inn Restaurant, serving Chinese food across the street, had a few empty tables.
 Addressing the local inclination to take myriad photos from every possible angle has been harder. One step has been to install another, stationary teacup next to the line for the Mad Hatter's Tea Cups so that visitors can take pictures while waiting, and not slow the loading and unloading process.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The weather did not deter weekend visitors to Hong Kong Disneyland. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 An early look at Tomorrowland, part of Disney's soon-to-open Hong Kong theme park, was not complete for some without photographs. (Photo by Dennis Owen/Bloomberg News)(pg. C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); RESORTS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (55%) Amusement and Theme Parks; Amusement and Theme Parks

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (92%); EURO DISNEY SCA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Disneyland (Hong Kong); Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); EDL (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (92%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Henry Tang

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) HONG KONG (95%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



172 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: DEMOCRATS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Intensify Criticism Of White House Response to Crisis

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
After 10 days of often uncertain responses to the Bush administration's management of Hurricane Katrina, Democratic leaders unleashed a burst of attacks on the White House on Wednesday, saying the wreckage in New Orleans raised doubts about the country's readiness to endure a terrorist attack and exposed ominous economic rifts that they said had worsened under five years of Republican rule.
 From Democratic leaders on the floor of Congress, to a speech by the Democratic National Committee chairman at a meeting of the National Baptist Convention in Miami, to four morning television interviews by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrats offered what was shaping up as the most concerted attack that they had mounted on the White House in the five years of the Bush presidency.
''Oblivious. In denial. Dangerous,'' Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California and the House minority leader, said of President Bush as she stood in front of a battery of uniformed police officers and firefighters in a Capitol Hill ceremony that had originally been scheduled to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 ''Americans should now harbor no illusions about the government's ability to respond effectively to disasters,'' she said. ''Our vulnerabilities were laid bare.''
 Former Senator John Edwards, a likely candidate for president in 2008 and the Democratic Party's vice-presidential nominee in 2004, argued that the breakdown in New Orleans illustrated the central theme of his national campaigns: the nation has been severed into two Americas. 
 ''The truth is the people who suffer the most from Katrina are the very people who suffer the most every day,'' Mr. Edwards said in a speech in North Carolina on Wednesday, according to a transcript provided by his office.
 And Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic presidential nominee in 2004, said in an interview: ''It's a summary of all that this administration is not in touch with and has faked and ducked and bobbed over the past four years. What you see here is a harvest of four years of complete avoidance of real problem solving and real governance in favor of spin and ideology.''
 The display of unity was striking for a party that has been adrift since Mr. Kerry's defeat, struggling to reach consensus on issues like the war in Iraq and the Supreme Court nomination of Judge John G. Roberts Jr. The aggressiveness was evidence of what Republicans and Democrats said was the critical difference between the hurricane and the Sept. 11 attacks: Democrats appear able to question the administration's competence without opening themselves to attacks on their patriotism.
 Not insignificantly, they have been emboldened by the fact that Republicans have also been critical of the White House over the past week, and by the perception that this normally politically astute and lethal administration has been weakened and seems at a loss as it struggles to manage two crises: the aftermath of the hurricane on the Gulf Coast and the political difficulties that it has created for Mr. Bush in Washington.
 Their response may have allowed the Democrats to seize the issue that Republicans had hammered them with in the past two elections: national security. ''Our government failed at one of the most basic functions it has -- providing for the physical safety of our citizens,'' Senator Evan Bayh, an Indiana Democrat who is considering a run for president in 2008, declared in a speech on the Senate floor.
 The Democrats' aggressiveness is not without its risks. The White House has been seeking to minimize the criticisms of Mr. Bush by portraying them as partisan, and some prominent Democrats had earlier avoided going after Mr. Bush on this issue, aware of what the Republicans were trying to accomplish.
 At a contentious press briefing on Wednesday, the White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, used the phrase ''blame game'' eight separate times as he tried to push back on criticism of the White House effort. 
 Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the House speaker, struck a similar theme, saying: ''Some people are really very anxious to start pointing fingers and playing the blame game. I think we need to get our work done.''
 Mr. McClellan did not respond to e-mails seeking a response to the Democratic criticisms. But in a sign of the White House effort to move the dispute out of the Oval Office and try to cast the argument in partisan terms, the Republican National Committee chairman, Ken Mehlman, issued a statement assailing Democrats like Ms. Pelosi for ''pointing fingers in a shameless effort to tear us apart.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton, in back-to-back television interviews Wednesday morning, angrily dismissed those kinds of attacks as a diversion from legitimate attempts by critics to point up shortcomings.
 ''That's what they always do; I've been living with that kind of rhetoric for the last four and a half years,'' Mrs. Clinton, Democrat of New York, said on the ''Today'' show. ''It's time to end it. It's time to actually show this government can be competent.''
 The Democratic reaction took many forms, from urging campaign contributors to give money to hurricane victims, to proposing legislation to provide aid to stricken areas, as Mr. Kerry did, to criticizing the Bush administration for cuts it had made to the budget of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as Mrs. Clinton did. In one less-noted gesture, Al Gore, the former vice president, chartered a private jet and flew doctors to storm-stricken areas.
 The Democratic National Committee chairman, Howard Dean, said this could be a transitional moment for his party. ''The Democratic Party needs a new direction,'' he said. ''And I think it's become clear what the direction is: restore a moral purpose to America. Rebuild America's psyche.'' 
 ''This is deeply disturbing to a lot of Americans, because it's more than thousands of people who get killed; it's about the destruction of the American community,'' Mr. Dean said. ''The idea that somehow government didn't care until it had to for political reasons. It's appalling.''
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said: ''The powerful winds of this storm have torn away that mask that has hidden from our debates the many Americans who are left out and left behind.''
 For all the turmoil, Republican House leaders said Wednesday that they were confident it would not translate into a shift in power -- if only, they argued, because there are not enough truly competitive seats next year to provide an opportunity for Democrats.
 ''Democrats throw stuff at the wall almost every week looking for something to stick,'' said Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, head of the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''This is something they have now chosen to politicize during a national disaster, versus let's get people taken care of and then move on to what we have learned from it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a broad attack by Democrats on the Bush administration's handling of the hurricane crisis misstated the action of the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, in response to e-mails seeking his comment. Two e-mails sent by a reporter carried incorrect addresses. Mr. McClellan therefore was unable to respond; he did not fail to do so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WEATHER (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); RELIGION (55%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); JOHN ROBERTS (76%) Adam Nagourney; Carl Hulse; John Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Nancy (Rep) Pelosi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



173 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing Connecticut: Hartford: Governor Criticizes Panel's Perks 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
A report released this week found that some executives of the the Connecticut Lottery Corporation, the Connecticut Development Authority, the Capital City Economic Development Authority and the state's five other quasi-public agencies received perks that Gov. M. Jodi Rell calls unacceptable. A February audit showed that the executives were receiving salaries and perks not enjoyed by regular state employees, including compensatory time for working overtime and the free use of vehicles and credit cards, according to The Connecticut Post, of Bridgeport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); AUDITS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (86%); LOTTERIES (85%) Ethics

PERSON: M JODI RELL (77%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (77%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



174 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL: FACTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Are Armed With Data but Stretch It to Hurt the Mayor and One Another

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The candidates in the Democratic debate last night came armed with data to make their cases that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg deserved to be fired and that they were the ones to solve a number of city ills he has failed to fix.
 But in many cases they either overstated their own accomplishments, exaggerated problems facing the city or did not have sufficient backup for their claims about the state of the city.
Representative Anthony D. Weiner, for instance, said, ''Last year 500,000 children turned to a soup kitchen or church basement for a meal.'' But that figure is based on figures provided by City Harvest, which were in turn based upon a study from 2001, before Mr. Bloomberg was mayor. 
 Mr. Weiner also said subway crime was up this year. But it is actually essentially flat compared with last year, down by a single crime, according to police statistics. Subway crime is down 15 percent from four years ago, according to the police. (Mr. Weiner's assertion that the number of shootings has increased is true, though homicides are down 6 percent compared with last year.)
 C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, was correct when she cited a recent United States Census Bureau report that listed New York as the only city with a population of more than one million to experience an increase in its poverty rate.
 But census bureau officials said yesterday they could not rule out that other large cities had similar increases; New York was the only major city in the study with a sample large enough to allow a such a statistically valid claim. A more complete study is to come out next summer. 
 Mr. Ferrer said in his closing statement, ''We've got to get serious about chronic unemployment, that's something Mike Bloomberg hasn't done.'' 
 But unemployment has dropped over all during Mr. Bloomberg's term. It is currently at 5.7 percent, the lowest level since before the terror attack of Sept. 11, 2001. Earlier, Mr. Ferrer said that unemployment was chronically higher among the city's minority groups -- a statement that even city officials would probably not dispute. 
 At times the candidates pushed the facts when they were speaking about themselves or one another.
 Gifford Miller, for instance, said he was fighting Mr. Bloomberg ''every single day and winning those battles,'' a reference to his years as the Council speaker during Mr. Bloomberg's term. But during that period, Mr. Miller helped deliver the Council's support to the mayor on two of his signature accomplishments: the ban on smoking in nearly all public places and his 18.5 percent property tax increase to close a budget gap.
 Mr. Weiner said that he was the only Democrat who had called for a middle-class tax cut, but Mr. Miller corrected him. Although Mr. Weiner has indeed called for a 10 percent tax cut on people making $150,000 or less a year, Mr. Miller has suggested doubling a tax credit for the working poor and adding a tax credit for apartment renters earning less than $100,000 a year.
 Mr. Weiner tried to distance himself from Lenora Fulani, the controversial Independence Party leader who is considered by many in political circles to be divisive, particularly now, because of anti-Semitic sentiments attributed to her.
 ''I've never accepted the endorsement of any party that she was involved with,'' Mr. Weiner said, adding, ''I was in the Queens Independence Party, when she took over I stepped away.'' He said that he never ''accepted Fulani's endorsement, she had no involvement with the party that I was involved in.'' 
 But Mr. Weiner ran for Congress in 1998 with the endorsement of the Independence Party and included its notation on his title throughout his first term. Ms. Fulani's involvement in the party had been reported as far back as 1996, at least.
 Mr. Miller made a similar claim, but he too ran on the party's line in 1997, after Ms. Fulani's involvement in the party had been reported in the news media, though he dropped off the line in later races.
 Mr. Weiner, meanwhile, seemed to contradict two of his earlier statements. During the debate last night he said that he regretted his vote to authorize the invasion of Iraq, and that he had done so because he had been misled. But Mr. Weiner was quoted in The New York Sun in August 2003, saying, ''Of course I was misled, but it wouldn't have changed my vote.''
 Mr. Ferrer, meanwhile, expressed vexation with the mayor's 18.5 percent property tax increase, calling him a ''tax hiker'' for pushing through the increase.
 But in an article in The Daily News in March 2004, he seemed to express some understanding of the mayor's tax increase, saying that ''Nobody likes higher taxes,'' but that ''we all have to pay cops, firefighters and teachers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); CENSUS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (75%); CRIME STATISTICS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); POOR POPULATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); BUDGETS (70%); HOMICIDE (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); TAX INCREASES (65%); SMOKING BANS (64%); TERRORISM (61%); PROPERTY TAX (60%) Debating; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ANTHONY D WEINER (79%) Jim Rutenberg; Diane Cardwell; Fernando Ferrer; Gifford (Speaker) Miller; C Virginia (Boro Pres) Fields; Anthony D (Rep) Weiner; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



175 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Apple Unveils A New Ipod And a Phone Music Player

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Apple moved on Wednesday to extend its dominance over the digital music marketplace, introducing a compact iPod called the nano and confirming a widely reported digital music partnership with Motorola and Cingular.
 With his usual showmanship, Apple's chairman, Steven P. Jobs, saved the introduction of the new solid-state version of the iPod for last, slipping it from the change pocket of his blue jeans at the end of a press event at the Moscone Convention Center here.
The iPod nano, which stores either 500 or 1,000 songs and is priced at $199 and $249, is intended to replace an existing model, the iPod Mini. The new device will be available in the United States, Japan and Europe this week. 
 ''The iPod nano is the biggest revolution since the original iPod,'' Mr. Jobs said.
 In an interview after his presentation, he called the new player, which is one of the industry's smallest, a ''bold gamble.'' 
 By replacing the Mini, which accounts for more than half of all iPods currently sold, the company risked a huge revenue shortfall if the new product had been delayed, Mr. Jobs said. Despite that risk, he said, the nano reflects several innovations.
 He focused on the shift away from the small disk-drive storage device used in the iPod Mini to the solid-state flash memory at the heart of the nano. He said the custom chips and the miniaturized circuit board used in the nano had also been potential stumbling blocks.
 ''Entire factories were created to make this device,'' he said. ''Overnight we have become the largest consumer of flash memory in the world.'' The flash memory enables the device to be smaller and more durable. 
 Mr. Jobs described an Apple ''top 100'' meeting earlier this year -- a retreat of the company's top employees -- where he urged those attending to take a big risk rather than fall into complacency in protecting the company's lead in digital music.
 Other gambles that Apple might have taken -- a video set-top box, a palmtop device, a portable video player -- have yet to come to pass after waves of speculation. Still, several analysts concurred that Mr. Jobs was taking a significant gamble with the nano and said it was likely to be successful.
 ''It looks like a really hot product,'' said Michael Gartenberg, vice president and research director of Jupiter Research, a market research firm based in Teaneck, N.J. 
 The nano comes with a color screen and the company's distinctive click-wheel navigation feature. It measures 1.6 by 3.5 inches and is a quarter-inch thick; the Mini, by comparison, is 2 by 3.6 inches and a half-inch thick. (The comparably priced Mini, however, offered slightly greater battery life than the nano -- 18 hours versus 14 -- and greater capacity, at 1,500 and 1,000 songs.)
 Several analysts said that Apple had moved the introduction of the nano ahead to ensure it would be widely available for the holiday season.
 Most of the event on Wednesday was devoted to the unveiling of a Motorola cellphone called the Rokr E1 (pronounced rocker), which will incorporate Apple's iTunes music software and be capable of storing 100 songs. The phone, long anticipated, will be available exclusively on the Cingular Wireless network in the United States. 
 The phone, which will sell for $250, has a color display, but requires that songs be downloaded from an iTunes-equipped personal computer by a U.S.B. cable. Cingular will not offer an iTunes service for buying songs directly over a cellphone connection.
 Asked why the phone did not offer the possibility of purchasing music directly, Mr. Jobs said that the economics of wirelessly downloading songs to a cellphone would be different from buying them online, probably costing about $3 a song, though he did not elaborate. 
 Ron Garriques, president of Motorola's mobile devices division, said his company had not discussed the prospect of directly downloading music with Cingular. Such a service would not make sense until Cingular offered a higher-speed network to allow faster downloading of data, including songs, something it is expected to do next year.
 Cingular's chief operating officer, Ralph de la Vega, said he had used the phone as a music player continuously on a cross-country flight, then landed and used it for a one-hour conference call followed by three or four other calls without draining the battery. 
 In what appeared to be a direct challenge to the music industry, which has been struggling with him behind the scenes over Apple's growing influence in the music world, Mr. Jobs outlined in detail the strength of his digital music business.
 He said Apple had sold half a billion digital songs and had 85 percent of the world market for digital music sales. The iTunes music service is now available in 20 countries, he said.
 He also noted that Apple had sold 6.2 million iPods of all models in the third quarter, comparing that figure to Sony's PlayStation Portable game machine, which sold two million during the same period.
 In recent weeks, Mr. Jobs has been struggling with several of the major music companies over the prices of digital songs. He has been urging the industry to hold to the 99-cent price for songs.
 Mr. Jobs said on Wednesday that he was pleased that the details surrounding the nano player had not surfaced prematurely in the press or on the Macintosh rumor sites on the Web.
 ''It would have broken my heart,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chairman, with the iPod nano yesterday in San Francisco. Mr. Jobs says the music player is the result of taking risks. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)(pg. C11)
 The iPod nano music player is intended to replace the iPod Mini. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); MUSIC (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (86%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (86%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%) Music; Recordings (Audio); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telphones; Music; Computer Software

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Computer Inc; Motorola Inc; Cingular Wireless

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); MSI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (91%) Steven P Jobs; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (76%); EUROPE (71%) Japan; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005



176 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Fashion Page; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Frivolity Revs Up As the Big Week Starts

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
WHEN a reporter happened upon Patricia Hearst Shaw in the front row of an InStyle magazine runway presentation on Wednesday evening with her hand up the hem of a woman's dress, Mrs. Hearst-Shaw, the former socialite, former Symbionese Liberation Army member, former federal prisoner and sometime movie actress, gave a pert laugh. ''Oh, it's all right,'' said Mrs. Hearst-Shaw, who was straightening the dress lining. ''I'm her mother.''
 And so began another New York Fashion Week, the twice-a-year carnival, where hard-core commerce meets heedless frivolity, the apparatus of hype swells to gargantuan proportions and the city seems overrun with It girls and between-gigs actors and Russian models bearing an uneasy resemblance to underage porn performers and with all the soldiers in that brisk modern army that toils so fearlessly in the trenches of marginal celebrity. 
''Do you know who's sitting right in front of you?'' the actor Callie Thorne whispered into her cellphone at the InStyle party, which was called Clothes We Love and featured so many outfits that one was forced to conclude that the editors suffer from love addiction. ''Dennis Leary,'' Ms. Thorne hissed to a friend on her own phone across the room. Moments earlier Mr. Leary had entered the lobby of the Time Warner Center, transformed into a catwalk through the liberal use of Mylar and fashion pixie dust. ''No alcohol or booze?'' he asked. 
 The booze, and plenty of it, came later at the party following the show. Flutes or splits of Champagne drunk through straws are never far from hand in Fashion Week, which officially starts today. (And how have child welfare authorities failed to notice the backstage guzzling by teenage models?) A reporter experiences the temptation to grab a tray of glasses from a passing waiter and drink until the senses are dulled to conversations in which the pressing issue is what flat boot is the right one to wear this fall. 
 It has been said before and is worth repeating: ''Pret-a-Porter,'' Robert Altman's 1994 movie about the fashion business, was no parody. Insiders found the depiction cartoonlike. It was. No one who has ever heard a designer describing what is generously termed inspiration can really claim that lines like the one Richard E. Grant uttered in the movie are that outrageous. ''It's plastic, it's rad, it's pret-a-go-go-go-go,'' said Mr. Grant's character, who wore pancake makeup, eyeliner and a spit curl glued across his forehead. Believe it or not, that person exists. 
 And so, even when much of the nation's attention is focused on the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, there are those this week who will cling to their determination to put across the wonders of the Maidenform Dream Bra. (Tagless, made of two-way stretch foam, it has a sweetheart neckline and is available in sizes 32A to 40DD, just so you know.) They will doggedly push the latest Robb Report findings on the highest end of the luxury market (as divined by Carol Brodie, the publication's chief luxury officer) at a Chelsea Piers event offering a select group (the only kind, really) a chance to smoke hand-rolled Zino cigars, to try on $1 million worth of jewelry and to ride in a Grand-Craft mahogany runabout and a Rolls-Royce Phantom. 
 And they will be pleased to explain to passers-by who stop at the Evian Pop-Up Spa on Fifth Avenue at 43rd Street how important indulgences like a hot-stone massage using only rocks soaked in pure imported Evian can be in the aftermath of tragedy. 
 ''Especially in troubled times, when people are suffering, and you are thinking of water,'' said Marjan Mehrkhast, an Evian spa consultant, ''it's crucial to think about your health.''
 Not everyone involved with Fashion Week is oblivious to outside events, of course. Among the philanthropic tie-ins for the InStyle runway show was one for hurricane relief. And a number of manufacturers have quietly made donations of clothing to the hurricane's victims. 
 ''When these things happen, you're forced to put fashion in perspective,'' said Mary Gehlhar, the fashion director of Gen Art, a nonprofit organization that showcases new talent in fashion, film and the visual arts. The Gen Art show, which takes place tonight, is the culmination of 10 months' work for the young designers. Still, ''you realize that fashion is important to the creative life of the city,'' she added. ''It's an important driver of the economy, it's important to the young designers, but it's not nearly as important as basic survival when you've lost your home and everything you have.''
 As Marcia Ammeen, the marketing director of Neema Clothing Ltd., the owner of Halston and the maker of Haspel men's wear, which donated 1,400 pairs of trousers and 1,000 suits to hurricane victims, said, ''Fashion to them is not anything right now, but we wanted to try and give them something decent besides jeans and T-shirts to get their confidence back, go look for jobs and rebuild their lives.'' 
 EARLY this week Diane Sustendal, a style writer who now characterizes herself as formerly of New Orleans, joined a group of volunteers at the Tabasco company in New Iberia, La., cutting up chickens and cabbage for cole slaw to help feed hundreds of refugees camped in the local city park. ''There were ex-debs next to pepper pickers, caterers next to convention planners, a university fund-raiser, a dentist and men who could drive long hauls working side by side creating what would be a hot meal to distract ourselves from our problems,'' Ms. Sustendal wrote by e-mail. Among her problems is where to live in the months until she can go back home. 
 After they had finished cooking, Ms. Sustendal wrote, her small group took itself down to the local big-box store to begin putting together new wardrobes to replace the clothes they had been wearing for days. What they came up with might not have been runway material. But in the mix of funky post-storm Prada, Michael Kors and the best of Wal-Mart's sale rack, she and her friends experienced an unanticipated spike in optimism as they listened for news that might tell them whether their homes were ''safe or looted or gone.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE RED CARPET -- Ali Sheedy at the InStyle party for Fashion Week.
 HAND SOAK -- A patron gets the troubled-times Evian spa treatment. (Photographs by Christopher Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); READY TO WEAR (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); WEATHER (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); HURRICANES (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (50%); CHILD WELFARE (50%) Apparel; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Trade Shows and Fairs

PERSON: Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



177 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: A Harrowing Portrait of Life in Postwar Iraq 

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Night Draws Near
Iraq's People in the Shadow of America's War
By Anthony Shadid
424 pages. Henry Holt & Company. $26.
 In an incisive and eloquent new book, the Washington Post reporter Anthony Shadid tells the story of a man named Sabah, who is accused of being a United States informer in the town of Thuluyah. Sabah is blamed by villagers for the deaths of a teenager and two men in an American raid, and his case becomes a matter of tribal justice: relatives of the dead men make it clear to Sabah's relatives that ''either they kill Sabah, or villagers would murder the rest of his family.'' According to Mr. Shadid, Sabah's father and brother, carrying AK-47's, take him out to their backyard orchard and take aim and fire. ''Even the prophet Abraham didn't have to kill his son,'' the father later tells Mr. Shadid, sadly adding that in his case ''there was no other choice.''
Sabah's story is only one of many tragic stories to be found in ''Night Draws Near,'' a book that gives a harrowing portrait of life in postwar Iraq and the fallout that the American war has had on ordinary Iraqi civilians, from a 14-year-old girl coping with the bombing of Baghdad to a 62-year-old academic and former Baath Party member to the reporter's own ''fixer'' and government minder, Nasir Mehdawi , who would later became a colleague and friend.
 The volume draws heavily upon Mr. Shadid's reporting for The Washington Post. (His dispatches from Iraq won the 2004 Pulitzer Prize for international reporting.) It leaves the reader with a devastating sense of the gap between the war's aims and its aftermath and the gap between the administration's rhetoric and the realities on the ground. Though much of the factual material in the book will be familiar to dedicated newspaper readers, Mr. Shadid does a fluent job of pulling all this information into a riveting narrative that is animated by his up-close and personal portraits of individual Iraqis. At the same time ''Night Draws Near'' -- much like Larry Diamond's book ''Squandered Victory,'' which appeared this summer -- also provides a damning account of the Bush administration's failure to prepare adequately for the postwar occupation of Iraq, and of its missteps and miscalculations in the wake of toppling Saddam Hussein.
 ''There was never really a plan for post-Saddam Iraq,'' Mr. Shadid writes. ''There was never a realistic view of what might ensue after the fall. There was hope that became faith, and delusions that became fatal.'' Trusting Iraqi exiles like Ahmad Chalabi and believing ''their own rhetoric of liberation,'' he argues, United States officials naively assumed that ''everything would fall into place after Saddam's departure.'' As a result too few troops were committed to secure the victory, and looting, score-settling and lawlessness followed. Even months after the collapse of Mr. Hussein's regime, many Iraqis were still lacking basic services like electricity and water; food prices and unemployment had soared; and daily life for many had turned into a hazardous minefield.
 The political consequences of the continuing violence would be severe, as Mr. Shadid's sources attest. Even many of those Iraqis who were joyous at Mr. Hussein's fall and who were prepared to think the best of the Americans began to question the failure of the United States, the most powerful nation on the face of the earth, to establish order. As Mr. Shadid puts it, ''Saddam had ruled for 35 years, the Americans had toppled him in less than three weeks, and relatively few of their soldiers and died in the task. How could these same Americans be so feeble in the aftermath?'' 
 As the weeks of violence turned into months, frustration turned to bitterness and resentment at what was perceived by many Iraqis as ''malicious inattention or inattentive malice'' on the part of the United States. Memories of the Reagan administration's support for Mr. Hussein's government during the Iran-Iraq war resurfaced, as well as grievances over the American-supported sanctions that took such a toll on the civilians. ''God Curse Saddam and the Americans'' became a popular graffiti. One man Mr. Shadid interviewed even asserted that Mr. Hussein had been in cahoots with the Americans, giving them a pretext to occupy Iraq: ''My expectation is that Saddam Hussein is in the United States on an island. They'll build a monument for him because he made their mission easy.'' 
 Matters were not helped by the formal United Nations declaration in May 2003 granting the United States and Britain formal authority as occupying powers in Iraq. ''For many Americans, even Europeans, the term 'occupation' probably evokes the aftermath of World War II and an American-led vision of cooperation with like-minded peoples forging a common destiny,'' writes Mr. Shadid, an Arab-American of Lebanese descent. ''But for Iraqis, and for most Arabs, the term, seared into the collective memory, brings to mind Israel's record in the Middle East'' -- namely, the Israeli occupation of Lebanon and, more pointedly, the region's most incendiary issue, Palestine.
 Indeed, as the months passed and Mr. Shadid continued his travels through the volatile streets of Baghdad and the even more volatile streets of smaller towns and villages, he witnessed the seeds of the insurgency blossom and take root in widening sectors of the population. Given the power vacuum created by the fall of a government that had held sway for decades and the United States' decision to dissolve the Iraqi army, vociferous religious leaders like Muqtada Sadr stepped forward, and disparate groups (including former supporters of Saddam, Iraqi nationalists, radical Islamists and foreign agitators) started to come together under the banner of resistance. 
 ''Rather than Iraq changing the Arab world'' as American leaders had hoped, Mr. Shadid writes of the summer of 2003, ''the Arab world, with its complement of impressions, prejudices, aspirations, and resentments, began changing Iraq. As time passed, towns in the Sunni regions began to feel more and more recognizable to reporters like me who had spent years in Arab places. I perceived a new surge of anger after each new catalyst: a shooting deemed unprovoked, a search considered unjustified, or a raid viewed as unwarranted. In three towns that summer -- Heet, Fallujah, and Khaldiya -- I would hear an Iraqi proverb repeated over and over as the occupation lurched on, violence of all kinds escalated, and more Iraqis were killed: 'The mud is getting wetter,' the people said. Things are getting worse, it meant.''
 Mr. Shadid sees the elections that took place in January as a sign of hope -- a sign that some Iraqis are tenaciously refusing ''to surrender their country to the forces of violence and chaos.'' But he points out that after those elections, the ''forces of religious revival, growing militancy, and hardening sectarianism, underlined by grievance and a threat of even more strife, returned to the stage.'' He reports that Iraqi police and security forces are often denounced as collaborators or traitors, that Iraqi society is growing increasingly atomized with ''many fair-minded, conscientious people'' withdrawing behind iron gates or choosing actual exile, and that ''in the pantheon of hallowed struggles, Iraq had now joined Palestine and Afghanistan, Chechnya and Bosnia, all countries where a besieged Muslim population was pitted against a more powerful foe.'' 
 For ordinary Iraqis -- who lived through the repressive regime of Saddam Hussein, the harrowing losses of the Iran-Iraq war, the ravages of the Persian Gulf war of 1991 and the hardships of international sanctions -- the 2003 invasion by America and the continuing insurgency represent yet another chapter in what seems like a Sisyphean litany of suffering.
 As for the unrelenting suicide attacks and car bombs, Mr. Shadid writes near the end of this sobering and revealing book: ''Bloodshed in itself was the ambition; it was a brutal, chilling, but calculated way to produce the perception of American failure'' and ''they succeeded, with cold brilliance, in magnifying the sense of U.S. failure in the eyes of most Iraqis and, for that matter, in the eyes of much of the world.'' 
 ''It was theater,'' he goes on, ''and people kept dying to create those indelible scenes, a portrait of a debacle designed for world consumption. The carnage itself sent the message of approaching anarchy, of the nearing of an abyss, as if it was understood that Americans could say nothing to mitigate the most recent tragedies or promise anything that would end the violence. The country was neither liberated, as Americans would have it, nor occupied, as the rest of the Arab world saw it. Iraq was subsumed in the logic of violence, ruled by men with guns.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Shadid (Photo by Washington Post)(pg. E34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MURDER (77%); LITERATURE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Michiko Kakutani; Anthony Shadid

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



178 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Broken Yardstick

BYLINE: By Nicholas Eberstadt. 
Nicholas Eberstadt, a researcher in political economy at the American Enterprise Institute, is the co-author of ''Health and the Income Inequality Hypothesis.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE most widely quoted federal statistic on deprivation and need in modern America is the ''poverty rate'' -- a measure tracking households with annual incomes below a ''poverty threshold'' established at the beginning of the Johnson administration's ''war on poverty'' in the 1960's and adjusted over time for inflation. According to the latest poverty rate estimates -- released by the Census Bureau on Aug. 30 -- the total percentage of Americans living in poverty was higher in 2004 (12.7 percent) than in 1974 (11.2 percent). According to that same report, poverty rates for American families and children were likewise higher last year than three decades earlier.
 On its face, this momentous story should have shocked the nation. After all, it suggested (among other alarming things) that Washington's long and expensive campaign to eliminate domestic poverty has been a colossal failure. So why did that poverty rate report end up mostly buried deep inside daily papers? 
Maybe because many news editors, like policymakers in Washington, know the dirty little secret about the poverty rate: it just isn't any good. Truth be told, the official poverty rate not only fails to calculate trends in impoverishment with any precision, it even gets the direction wrong. 
 The profound flaws in our officially calculated poverty rate are revealed by its very intimation that the poverty situation in America was ''better'' in 1974 than it is today. Those of us of a certain age remember the year 1974 -- in all its recession-plagued, ''stagflation''-burdened glory. But even the most basic facts bearing on poverty alleviation confute the proposition that material circumstances in America are harsher for the vulnerable today than three decades ago. Per capita income adjusted for inflation is over 60 percent higher today than in 1974. The unemployment rate is lower, and the percentage of adults with paying jobs is distinctly higher. Thirty years ago, the proportion of adults without a high school diploma was more than twice as high as today (39 percent versus 16 percent). And antipoverty spending is vastly higher today than in 1974, even after inflation adjustments. 
 In the face of such evidence, what do you call an indicator that stubbornly insists that the percentage of Americans below a fixed poverty threshold has increased? How about ''a broken compass?''
 The soundings from the poverty rate are further belied by information on actual living standards for low-income Americans. In 1972-73, for example, just 42 percent of the bottom fifth of American households owned a car; in 2003, almost three-quarters of ''poverty households'' had one. By 2001, only 6 percent of ''poverty households'' lived in ''crowded'' homes (more than one person per room) -- down from 26 percent in 1970. By 2003, the fraction of poverty households with central air-conditioning (45 percent) was much higher than the 1980 level for the non-poor (29 percent).
 Besides these living trends, there are what we might call the ''dying trends'': that is to say, America's health and mortality patterns. All strata of America -- including the disadvantaged -- are markedly healthier today than three decades ago. Though the officially calculated poverty rate for children was higher in 2004 than 1974 (17.8 percent versus 15.4 percent), the infant mortality rate -- that most telling measure of wellbeing -- fell by almost three-fifths over those same years, to 6.7 per 1,000 births from 16.7 per 1,000. 
 The poverty rate is out of step with all these other readings about deprivation in modern America because it was designed to measure the wrong thing. The poverty rate has always been derived from reported household income. (Exigency played a role here: at the start of the war on poverty 40 years ago, those income numbers were already available from the Census Bureau.) But a better gauge of a household's material deprivation is not what it earns, but what it spends. When we look at spending patterns, we immediately see a huge discrepancy between reported incomes and reported expenditures for low-income Americans. 
 In the Labor Department's latest Consumer Expenditure Survey (2003), the average reported income for the bottom fifth of households was $8,201, while reported outlays came to $18,492 -- well over twice that amount. Over the past generation, that discrepancy widened significantly: back in the early 1970's, the poorest fifth's reported spending exceeded income by 40 percent.
 Unfortunately, economists and statisticians have yet to come up with a clear explanation for this gap (which is not explained by in-kind payments like food stamps or other assistance). The divergence may be in part a measurement problem: partly a matter of income under-reporting, partly a consequence of increasing income variability in our more ''globalized'' economy. But whatever its cause, it does drive home the unreliability of using reported household income as a benchmark for poverty.
 For now, however, we should recognize that America has already achieved far more success in the war against want than our sorry poverty rate can admit -- and that we need much better guidance systems for the anti-poverty battles still ahead than this one, arguably the single worst measure in our government's statistical arsenal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY RATES (97%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (95%); POOR POPULATION (95%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); TRENDS (76%); CENSUS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CHILDREN (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%) United States Economy; Income; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Nicholas Eberstadt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



179 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Stockpiles Fell in July

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Stockpiles at wholesalers fell unexpectedly in July and claims for unemployment benefits dropped last week, the government reported Thursday. 
 The Labor Department's weekly jobless data, showing a decline of 1,000 claims, reflected few of the huge number of claims expected from the gulf states after Hurricane Katrina. 
Inventories at wholesalers fell 0.1 percent in July, while sales rose 0.5 percent on an increase in demand for oil, the Commerce Department said.
 The decline in wholesale stockpiles was the first since January 2004, the Commerce Department said.
 Wall Street analysts had expected wholesale inventories to rise 0.5 percent, according to a Reuters poll.
 Stocks of durable goods -- products meant to last three years or more -- rose 0.3 percent in July, as inventories of electrical equipment, machinery, cars, furniture and lumber rose.
 Nondurable stocks fell 0.7 percent, the biggest decline since January 2004, as stocks of drugs plunged 4.9 percent and inventories of paper, groceries, chemicals and alcohol dropped.
 The inventories-to-sales ratio, a measure of how long it would take to deplete stocks at the current sales pace, dropped to 1.18 months, from 1.19 in June.
 The 0.5 percent gain in wholesale sales matched June's advance. Sales of petroleum products by wholesalers jumped 7.6 percent in July, the largest gain since March.
 In the other report, the government said an upward revision of jobless claims was expected as hurricane-stricken states on the Gulf Coast process applications.
 First-time claims for unemployment insurance benefits dropped to 319,000 last week, from 320,000 the week before, the Labor Department said. This included about 10,000 disaster-related applications for aid from Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi.
 Economists surveyed by Reuters had expected claims to fall by 5,000, to 315,000, last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); WEATHER (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%) United States Economy; Labor; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Unemployment Insurance; Katrina (Storm); Stockpiling; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Sales

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



180 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE SEAFOOD INDUSTRY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Comeback Is Likely for Fish but Maybe Not for Fishermen, Louisiana Officials Fear 

BYLINE: By JEREMY ALFORD

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Louisiana officials said Thursday that the commercial and recreational seafood industries along the coastline were devastated by Hurricane Katrina, and they estimated the economic impact could reach $1.6 billion over the next 12 months. And that is not counting the loss of a trademark of bayou culture. 
 With many of their vessels being used in rescues, officials in the state's Department of Wildlife and Fisheries have been unable get a good look at the damage. But industry experts said they feared that some commercial fishermen would leave the trade and never come back and that fresh domestic seafood would take a permanent back seat to cheaper imports. 
''The industry is not going to exist for some period of time,'' said John Roussel, assistant secretary of the department. ''This is most certainly going to be another significant blow to them. There's no good aspect to this.''
 The affected area, which includes the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, St. Bernard, Plaquemines, St. Tammany and lower Lafourche, is a favorite of sportsmen and the epicenter of most recreational and commercial activities in the area. 
 About a third of the state's wholesale and retail seafood dealers are in the region where the hurricane made landfall, as are 63 percent of the state's charter vessels. 
 Rex H. Caffey, director of the Center for Natural Resource Economics and Policy at Louisiana State University, said the ripple effect would be felt far from the coast in coming months and could change the face of domestic seafood production.
 Before the storm, his office estimated that commercial fishermen in Louisiana caught $1 billion of seafood each year. So, Mr. Caffey considers the preliminary economic impact released by the state, which includes recreational fishing, to be ''extremely conservative.''
 Louisiana produces more seafood than any other state in the contiguous United States, he said, which means a multitude of jobs and livelihoods. Before the hurricane hit, New Orleans was considered the ''central nervous system'' of the seafood business in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 ''I never conceived losing this much of the market at one time,'' Mr. Caffey said. 
 David Lavergne, a fisheries economist with the state, said all the natural resources devastated by Hurricane Katrina are renewable, although no one knows when they may return. 
 Mr. Lavergne said the department's preliminary study relied on historical data provided by fishermen and commercial wholesalers. 
 The study put the potential loss at the docks, which is the first point of sale for fishermen, at $12 million for crab, $44 million for oysters, $11 million for saltwater fish and $81 million for shrimp.
 None of the figures, however, include losses from damaged boats, shut processing plants and damage to other equipment, Mr. Roussel said. 
 Consumers may feel a temporary pinch from high prices, officials say, but that is unlikely to last as cheaper imports offer an alternative. 
 Louisiana's fisheries will probably face some environmental challenges from oil spills and other pollution caused by the storm. But some experts said they were confident that it would eventually bounce back. There could even be an upside. For instance, overfished species like red snapper would receive a respite of sorts and could flourish. 
 ''I'm not so much worried about the fisheries as I am the fishermen,'' Mr. Caffey said. 
 Over the last 15 years, the number of commercial fishermen in Louisiana has dwindled by 50 percent. They have been forced out of the business by cheap imports, fewer processors and a lack of affordable labor. 
 Mike Voisin, president of Motivatit Seafoods in Terrebonne Parish, said that fewer young people had been coming into the industry and the hurricane may be the death knell. He likened the situation to the plight of domestic farming during the 1980's, when farms consolidated. 
 ''How can we push against that tide?'' Mr. Voisin asked. ''It's already pushing hard in that direction.'' He added, ''It may take a generation because of the catastrophes we've seen, but Hurricane Katrina will not kick us out of Louisiana.'' 
 Kim Chauvin, who shrimps alongside her husband in Houma, said the long-term impact could be devastating, but there were more immediate concerns. Her husband is already back on the water, but they are unable to sell shrimp because the out-of-state shippers they use are temporarily not serving the area. In addition, diesel prices jumped from $1.98 a gallon before the storm to about $2.25 today. 
 ''You have an industry on its last leg here,'' Mrs. Chauvin said. ''It's very scary. I've spent many nights in tears because we have no idea how we're going to get through this. I know there are a lot of people worse off than me, but we need some help.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Gulfport, a fisherman, Hiep Le, throwing back spoiled shrimp. (Photo by RJ Sangosti/The Denver Post)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL STORMS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (89%); FISHERIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); FISHES (78%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (78%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (78%); SPORT FISHING (78%); WEATHER (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); CRUSTACEANS (76%); TRENDS (75%); HISTORY (72%); SHELLFISH FISHING (58%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Katrina (Storm) ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Fishing, Commercial; Fishing, Sport

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: Jeremy Alford

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



181 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

 Soweto Finds Prosperity After History of Apartheid
Soweto, South Africa, is famous for being the hotbed of rebellion during apartheid's dying days. But now, the township is emerging as a springboard into the black middle and upper classes, an economic hub in its own right. A1

World's Wheat Crop in Danger
Biologists warned that a virulent new strain of a previously controlled plant disease had emerged in East Africa and could wipe out 10 percent of the world's wheat production if its spread is not halted. A8

Ukraine President Fires Cabinet
President Viktor A. Yushchenko dismissed his prime minister and the rest of the cabinet as internal divisions and accusations of corruption splintered the political coalition that led last year's popular uprising against his autocratic predecessor. A3

North Korea Nuclear Talks
Six-nation talks over North Korea's nuclear-weapons program will resume next Tuesday, China said. A4

Egypt's Elections Imply Change
Egypt's first experiment with a multicandidate race for president may seem to outsiders like a charade. But the election was historic in more than a symbolic way. It showed a country shifting its state institutions toward a more open society. A10

Powell Tells of Blot on Record
The former secretary of state, Colin L. Powell, said in a new television interview that his United Nations presentation in 2003 of information about Iraq's weapons programs that turned out to be false was ''painful'' for him personally and would be a permanent ''blot'' on his record. A10

NATIONAL A12-22

Federal Hurricane Relief May Exceed $100 Billion
White House officials and Congressional budget experts now assume that federal costs for the hurricane will shoot past $100 billion, which itself is more than twice the entire annual federal budget for domestic security. Congress approved $51.8 billion in spending, bringing the total so far to more than $62 billion. A1

Throughout the dry neighborhoods of New Orleans, which are growing larger each day as pumps push water out of the city, many people are defying Mayor C. Ray Nagin's orders to leave, contending that it violates their constitutional rights. A1

Along with the destruction of homes and neighborhoods and lives, Hurricane Katrina decimated the legal system of New Orleans, obliterating courts and records and their support network like no American natural disaster in modern times. A1

After a day of confusion and complaints, officials of the Federal Emergency Management Agency said the agency would not expand a trial program to distribute debit cards worth $2,000 to victims of Hurricane Katrina for immediate living expenses. A17

Jury Chosen in Hunting Deaths
A jury was chosen in Madison, Wis., for the trial of a Hmong immigrant charged with killing six hunters, causing consternation in the North Woods where the shootings took place. A12

Ex-Clinton Aide Draws Fine
Samuel R. Berger, an influential adviser to former President Bill Clinton, was ordered to pay a higher-than-expected fine of $50,000 but received no jail time for removing and destroying copies of classified documents from the National Archives. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

 Few Firefighters Heard Alert of South Tower's Fall
Records from Sept. 11, 2001, made public in August offer a bleaker version of events than either Mayor Bloomberg or former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani presented to the 9/11 Commission: most firefighters in the north tower of the World Trade Center had no idea that the south tower had collapsed or that the building they were in was about to fall. A1

Amtrak May Raise Fares
Amtrak is preparing to announce a significant increase in fares that will push up the monthly cost of commuting for thousands of train riders in the Northeast by as much as 50 percent, according to railroad industry officials, commuter advocates and Congressional staffers. B1

WEEKEND E1-26;E27-34

ESCAPES F1-14

OBITUARIES C15

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-9

 Federer and Hewitt Advance
Roger Federer continued his march toward another U.S. Open title as he routed Argentine David Nalbandian, the 11th seed, 6-2 6-4 6-1, to reach the semifinals. Federer will meet Australian Lleyton Hewitt, the third seed, a repeat of last year's final. Earlier Hewitt came from behind to win, 2-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1, over unseeded Jarkko Nieminen of Finland. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

 Taking Charge at Sears
Edward S. Lampert, the billionaire who bought Kmart out of bankruptcy and then used it to buy Sears, Roebuck, put himself in charge of creative decision making at the company that is now called Sears Holdings. C1

Katrina's Impact on Jobs
The makeup of the Gulf Coast work force hit by Hurricane Katrina -- heavy on warehouse employees and blackjack dealers, light on bankers and factory workers -- has already complicated relief efforts and appears likely to aggravate Hurricane Katrina's economic damage. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Advance men in charge; where's the Governator now?; Ukraine's orange flame, dimmed; a light in the forests.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E34
TV Listings E26
Weather D10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (86%); HURRICANE KATRINA (86%); JURY TRIALS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MAYORS (77%); WHEAT FARMING (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); BIOLOGY (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); APPROVALS (63%); DEBIT CARDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (71%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UKRAINE (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



182 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Billions for Vaccines for the Poor to Be Raised in Bond Markets

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Britain, France, Spain, Italy and Sweden will announce an agreement on Friday to raise almost $4 billion on the bond markets for an enormously expanded use of vaccines across the developing world. The World Health Organization estimates this undertaking will save the lives of five million children over the next decade.
 Commitments from some of the participating nations have been secured only in recent days. 
The new funds would roughly double the resources of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, an umbrella group of countries, international organizations, vaccine industry representatives and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Over the past five years, the alliance has financed the immunization of 78 million children and prevented more than a million child deaths, the health organization estimates. 
 The alliance's board has already approved ambitious programs for 2006 to expand measles coverage in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, as well as to help eradicate polio worldwide and increase the use of maternal and neonatal tetanus vaccines. These plans can go forward now that the new financing has been secured.
 ''We hope this pilot will demonstrate the feasibility and the power of this financing mechanism, and we look to gain more support from more countries,'' said Paul Kissack, a spokesman for the British treasury.
 The United States has declined to join the vaccine plan. Bush administration officials could not be reached for comment Thursday night, but said earlier this year that the long-term commitment to raise money through the bond market is not consistent with the annual appropriations process in Congress. The United States provides $60 million to $70 million a year to the alliance.
 ''We hope if this process is successful that the United States will reconsider its position,'' said Dr. Julian Lob-Levyt, the vaccine alliance's executive secretary.
 British officials have said they hope the new resources will help the world reach the goal adopted unanimously five years ago at the United Nations to reduce child deaths by two-thirds by 2015. More than 170 government leaders will gather in New York next week to assess progress in meeting the antipoverty objectives they set in 2000.
 The pact marks the first time rich nations have used pledges of increased aid to back government bonds as a means of financing a major development program. This so-called international finance facility is the brainchild of Gordon Brown, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer. 
 Under the plan, income from the sale of the bonds would be provided to the global vaccine alliance to pay for vaccinations over a period of 10 years. The five participating nations would pay off the bonds over 20 years. The two largest donors are Britain, which has pledged to cover 35 percent of the cost, and France, which is covering a quarter.
 The money will be used to purchase vaccines and bicycles to transport them, as well as to rehabilitate health clinics and pay health workers to do the immunizing in remote areas. Leaders of the alliance hope the vaccine plan will strengthen basic health services in poor countries, not just immunization efforts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BONDS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); BIOLOGICS MFG (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) Medicine and Health; Vaccination and Immunization; Children and Youth; Third World and Developing Countries; Foreign Aid; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%) World Health Organization

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (59%) Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SPAIN (93%); SWEDEN (92%); FRANCE (90%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (56%) Great Britain; France; Spain; Italy; Sweden

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



183 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: EMPLOYMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Willing Workers but With the Wrong Job Skills

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT and LOUIS UCHITELLE; Ken Belson in Long Beach, Miss.; Simon Romero in Galveston, Tex.; and Barnaby J. Feder in Jackson, Miss., contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
With some one million people from New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast suddenly tossed out of their jobs by Hurricane Katrina, the newly unemployed are now fanning out across the South and the rest of the country, getting help from friends, family, employers or government agencies. In many ways, the potpourri of relief efforts is serving as a testament to the economy's flexibility. 
 But the makeup of the Gulf Coast work force -- heavy on warehouse employees and blackjack dealers, light on bankers and factory workers -- has already complicated relief efforts and appears likely to add to Hurricane Katrina's economic damage.
With a population less educated than the nation as a whole, New Orleans and coastal Mississippi employed many people without the kind of skills that would help them quickly find new jobs. The Gulf Coast economy also has more than its fair share of workers who made their living waiting tables, fixing houses or otherwise serving a local economy that, for now, does not exist. 
 ''I want to go back and help rebuild New Orleans,'' said Gregory Woods, 48, a master plumber who spent last weekend in Galveston, Tex., where he and his wife talked to social workers about how they could collect food stamps. ''But for the time being, our life is here.'' 
 The Congressional Budget Office estimated this week that 400,000 jobs, out of the roughly one million in the area pummeled by the storm, would remain unfilled through the end of the year. 
 School districts around Louisiana are hiring teachers from New Orleans to teach children from that city who are now pouring into their schools. Manpower, the staffing company, has placed 400 refugees in temporary jobs paying roughly $8 to $12 an hour.
 Martin D. Claiborne, a dermatologist whose New Orleans home was flooded, spent yesterday driving to Houston and calling other doctors there to see if they could use his help. His wife's brother, a dentist, had already found work in the Florida Panhandle.
 In Long Beach, Miss., not far from the coast, Diane Sheehan said her employer, the Grand Casino in Gulfport, had agreed to give her 90 days' worth of pay, allowing her not to worry about the next few weeks. ''They're paying us to get our lives back together,'' said Ms. Sheehan, a V.I.P. service representative at the casino. 
 But the enormous scale of the dislocation has still left thousands of people to reconstruct both their lives and their livelihoods. The residents of many other regions -- places where software designers, machine technicians and business consultants are not so rare -- would probably have an easier time doing so than the people of the Gulf Coast will, economists said.
 ''Many of these households are low-income, and they're going to rely more heavily on government aid and charity,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Economy.com, a research company. ''Worrying about their basic needs will be predominant. They're not going to be working again quickly.''
 Private economists and the Congressional Budget Office predict that by early next year the economy will recover the 400,000 lost jobs, as the rebuilding of the Gulf Coast picks up speed. 
 Across the economy, in fact, the storm's early impact has been tamer than many people feared it might be. In a sign that households outside of New Orleans remain willing to spend money, the number of people applying for new mortgages and for mortgage refinancing both rose last week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
 The economy is also creating jobs at a faster pace than it was a year ago, allowing it to more easily absorb the surge in unemployment from the storm.
 The jobs rebuilding the Gulf Coast are likely to go to construction workers who might come from other parts of the country. As for people in the region, they will be forced onto a job market that values education more highly than it once did.
 Fewer than 43 percent of adults in the hardest-hit counties and parishes have attended college at some point in their lives, according to Census Bureau data analyzed by Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor at Queens College. In the rest of the country, an average of 52 percent of adults have some college education. 
 Partly as a result, New Orleans and the nearby coastal areas have a disproportionate share of laundry-service workers, waiters and other lower-income workers. New Orleans also suffers from high unemployment, and 23 percent of residents live below the poverty level, the Census Bureau reported last week.
 For now, many large companies are paying idled workers for at least a few weeks. United Parcel Service, after initially stopping payment to drivers and other employees in the area, reversed its decision this week and has paid them retroactive to Aug. 29, when the storm hit, said Norman Black, a spokesman. Like Harrah's, which owns the Grand Casino, Hilton is giving its employees 90 days' pay.
 But many workers will be without their jobs for longer than their paychecks will keep arriving. Northrop Grumman, the military contractor, is paying its 19,000 workers on the coast through the end of this week, said Dan McClain, a company spokesman.
 Ms. Sheehan said that she would consider returning to Chicago, her former home, if she could not get her old job back.
 Other people, like many of those at small businesses, are already going without paychecks. The Gulf Coast has a larger share of people working in offices of fewer than 50 employees than most parts of the country do, according to Economy.com.
 Although government agencies are trying to help people apply for benefits while they remain homeless, many early efforts remain plagued with logistical problems.
 Mississippi, for example, has waived the usual one-week waiting period to apply for unemployment benefits, according to the Labor Department in Washington. But only about 10,000 of the one million displaced workers appeared to have applied for benefits, the department said yesterday.
 Professionals like Dr. Claiborne, the dermatologist on his way to Houston, are also struggling to rebuild their lives, but many of them left the region before the hurricane hit land and have had more than a week to make some progress.
 Dr. Claiborne found out yesterday that his youngest son could attend high school in Houston, and the family began driving to Texas from Florida, where they had been since last week. The doctor still must figure out whether his medical license will allow him to practice in Texas. 
 ''Ten days ago, I was thinking I was ahead of the game,'' said Dr. Claiborne, 55, whose vacation house in Mississippi was destroyed and whose New Orleans house still has four feet of water in it. ''Now I'm not so far ahead.''
 In Jackson, Miss., Maurice Rieffel, a policy specialist for Entergy, the electric power supplier to the region, was working on storm-related issues for his employer after having fled his house and job in New Orleans. His wife and his son are crammed into a student apartment at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge with 14 other family members.
 ''Working takes my mind off of what's happened,'' Mr. Rieffel said. But ''my wife is facing a lot of challenges I can't help with.''
 The first broad attempt to measure the storm's impact on the job market will come with next month's Labor Department employment report, to be released Oct. 7. 
 Even in normal times, the jobs report often affects the stock market and Federal Reserve interest rate policy. But surveying people around the Gulf Coast is likely to beso difficult that the numbers could be deficient, said Thomas J. Nardone, who oversees the survey.
 ''I cannot remember a situation like this in my tenure here,'' Mr. Nardone, who has worked at the Bureau of Labor Statistics since the mid-1980's.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandra Ders, top center, an Arizona state employee, and Kari Brauer, top right, a Phoenix city worker help evacuees seek jobs. (Pool photo by Jack Kurtz)(pg. C1)
 Veronica Scott, right, an evacuee from New Orleans, interviews for a job near Bluffdale, Utah, and gets it. (Photographs by George Frey/Getty Images)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Economic Devastation''There were nearly 900,000 workers in the eight Louisiana parishes and four Mississippi counties hardest hit by Hurricane Katrina .Industries in areas severely affected by the hurricaneGovernmentNUMBER OF WORKERS: 154,500PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 17.8Leisure and hospitalityNUMBER OF WORKERS: 123,300PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 14.2Education and health servicesNUMBER OF WORKERS: 101,400PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 11.7Retail tradeNUMBER OF WORKERS: 98,300PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 11.3Professional/business servicesNUMBER OF WORKERS: 91,800PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 10.6ManufacturingNUMBER OF WORKERS: 60,500PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 7.0Financial activitiesNUMBER OF WORKERS: 44,400PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 5.1MiningNUMBER OF WORKERS: 9,400PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKERS: 1.1Graph compares percentage of total workers with the U.S.(Source by Economy.com)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WEATHER (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); REFUGEES (72%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); CHILDREN (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%); DERMATOLOGY (62%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Labor

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%) Congressional Budget Office; Manpower Inc

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Gulf of Mexico; New Orleans (La); Mississippi; Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



184 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: an Update

BYLINE: By Nina Kamp, Michael O'Hanlon and Amy Unikewicz. 
Nina Kamp and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, a senior research assistant and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
It was not a good summer in Iraq. After the midwinter bright spots -- reductions in violence, greater economic vitality, the famous purple fingers of voters -- the situation worsened as the weather warmed. Most worrisome, the constitutional process has failed to bring aboard Sunni Arabs, who remain the core of the insurgency. While Shiites and Kurds wisely compromised on some key points, they favor an oil-allocation scheme that Sunnis fear could deprive them of their fair share of Iraq's natural wealth. 
 There is, as always, some good news. The government has made progress on managing inflation, rewriting banking laws and adopting strict budgetary rules to prevent deficit spending. Telephone and Internet use continue to increase; gross domestic product is greater than during Saddam Hussein's latter years in power; school enrollment is up 20 percent since 2000. And somewhere between one-tenth and one-fifth of Iraqi security forces are now fairly capable.
But on balance the indicators are troubling. Electricity production remains stuck at prewar levels even as demand soars, and the power is off in Baghdad more often than it is on. Unemployment is stubbornly high. Infant mortality rates are still among the Middle East's highest. And Iraq is the most violent country in the region, not only in terms of war casualties but of criminal murders as well. On one point at least, pessimists and optimists about Iraq tend to agree: the situation needs a major boost from the political process. In that light, the Oct. 15 referendum on the draft constitution looms very large.


Telephone Subscribers
(in thousands; prewar: 830)
August 2003 -- 800
August 2004 -- 1,460
August 2005 -- 4,180

Independent TV Stations
August 2003 -- 0
August 2004 -- 12
August 2005 -- 29

Aid Disbursed
(U.S./other foreign; in billions of dollars)
August 2003 -- 0.1/0
August 2004 -- 3.5/1
August 2005 -- 10.3/2.2

Percentage of Iraqis Saying Country Headed in the Right Direction
August 2003 -- 65
August 2004 -- 51
August 2005 -- 48

Percentage of Iraqis Confident in Government
August 2003 -- N.A.
 August 2004 -- 65
August 2005 -- 55

Expected Sunni Arab Share of Future National Oil Revenue
(percent)
August 2003 -- 20
August 2004 -- 20
August 2005 -- 5-20

GRAPHIC: ChartChart showing indicators of the state of Iraq for August 2003, August 2004 and August 2005.Foreign Troops in Iraq(in thousands
U.S./other)August 2003 -- 139/22August 2004 -- 140/24August 2005 -- 139/23U.S. Troop FatalitiesAugust 2003 -- 36August 2004 -- 65August 2005 -- 90U.S. Troops WoundedAugust 2003 -- 181August 2004 -- 891August 2005 -- 608Other Foreign Troop FatalitiesAugust 2003 -- 7August 2004 -- 9August 2005 -- 0Iraqi Security Personnel FatalitiesAugust 2003 -- 50August 2004 -- 150August 2005 --280Iraqi Civilians Killed by War(2005 entry does not include nearly 1,000 stampede victims)August 2003 -- 225August 2004 -- 550August 2005 -- 600Foreign Civilians Killed by WarAugust 2003 -- 26August 2004 -- 31August 2005 -- 6Estimated Size of InsurgencyAugust 2003 -- 3,000August 2004 -- 20,000August 2005 -- 18,000Estimated Foreign JihadistsAugust 2003 -- 100August 2004 -- 500August 2005 -- 900Attacks on Oil Assets and PersonnelAugust 2003 -- 4August 2004 -- 21August 2005 -- 9Iraqi Security Personnel(in thousands
total/good qualityAugust 2003 -- 37/0August 2004 -- 91/0August 2005 -- 183/26Oil Production(in millions of barrels per day
prewar: 2.5)August 2003 -- 1.4August 2004 -- 2.1August 2005 -- 2.2Availability of Household Fuel(percentage of estimated need)August 2003 -- 57August 2004 -- 84August 2005 -- 94Iraqi Gross Domestic Product(in billions of dollars
2002 level: 18.4August 2003 -- 12.1August 2004 -- 21.1August 2005 -- 25Iraqi G.D.P. Not From Oil(in billions of dollars)August 2003 -- 2.0August 2004 -- 8.3August 2005 -- 10.9Iraqi National Debt(in billions of dollars)August 2003 -- 114August 2004 -- 78August 2005 -- 82Annual Inflation Rate(percent)August 2003 -- 36August 2004 -- 32August 2005 -- 20Average Electricity Availability(in megawatts
 prewar: 4,000)August 2003 -- 3,300August 2004 -- 4,700August 2005 -- 4,000Percentage of Sewage TreatedAugust 2003 -- 25August 2004 -- 35August 2005 -- 50Unemployment Rate(percent)August 2003 -- 55August 2004 -- 35August 2005 -- 33Trained JudgesAugust 2003 -- 0August 2004 -- 200August 2005 -- 400

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); TRENDS (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (55%); BANKING LAW (55%); INFANT MORTALITY (51%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Nina Kamp; Michael O'Hanlon; Amy Unikewicz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



185 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE ENERGY SUPPLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Gas Inventories at a 5-Year Low

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The nation's gasoline inventories fell last week to their lowest levels in almost five years, the government said yesterday, quantifying for the first time Hurricane Katrina's effect on energy supplies and production.
 Americans bought and used about as much gasoline as they did a year earlier -- 9.3 million barrels a day -- in the week that ended last Friday, but gasoline inventories fell 2.2 percent from the previous week because of supply and production disruptions, the Energy Department reported.
The figures did not include the Labor Day weekend, and gasoline stocks may have declined even more since then. 
 The hurricane has reduced oil and gasoline production, refining and distribution in the Gulf of Mexico region, and energy companies are still trying to recover lost capacity. 
 For consumers, the disruptions meant high retail prices and, in some areas, spot shortages of gasoline. 
 A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was selling yesterday for an average of $3.03 nationwide, down from $3.04 on Wednesday, according to AAA. Average prices peaked at $3.06 on Monday and briefly spiked up to $4 to $5 during the last week in some cities, Atlanta among them.
 Crude oil prices rose 12 cents, to $64.49 a barrel yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Up to 10 refineries in the Gulf Coast that account for 10 percent of the country's capacity were shut and two critical pipelines that bring gasoline and other fuels to the South, the Middle Atlantic States and the Northeast were not operating at full capacity for much of last week. Six refineries are still shut and about half of the gulf's oil and natural gas production remains out of service.
 All told, gasoline inventories fell to 190.1 million barrels as of Friday, down 8.6 percent from the period a year earlier. Measured another way, the nation has inventories that could last 20.4 days given normal demand and no additional production.
 ''That's the lowest in five years,'' said Fadel Gheit, an energy analyst at Oppenheimer & Company.
 ''It doesn't matter that if I have whatever level of inventories, but I am consuming a lot more, therefore it will last me fewer days,'' Mr. Gheit said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE (95%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); WEATHER (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Economic Conditions and Trends; Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Behavior; Katrina (Storm); Shortages; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%) Energy Department

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



186 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2365 words

HEADLINE: America's Priciest Getaways

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

DATELINE: SULLIVAN'S ISLAND, S.C. 

 BODY:
A SUDDEN rainstorm signals an early lunch hour, and beachgoers head off the expansive stretch of sand toward the center of town. The main drag, all three blocks of it, includes a Kangaroo Express gas station, a dentist's office, a day spa and a handful of restaurants including Bert's Bar, a local pub with the motto ''If it hurts, go to Bert's.'' Across the street, inside Poe's Tavern, known for its burgers and fish tacos, the scene is unhurried and casual, with shorts and T-shirts favored over button-down shirts and slacks. 
 Unlikely as it may seem, this is also the location of some of the most expensive second-home real estate in the country -- right up there with Aspen, Nantucket, Palm Beach and the Hamptons -- with a median home price last year of $1.1 million.
A varied collection of historic cottages and summer villas dot this unassuming barrier island off the coast of Charleston, from quaint beach bungalows with wide porches, latticework and dormer windows to several stately officers' quarters -- remnants of the island's long military history. There is also a growing number of McMansions that many locals refer to as boxes or cubes. Middle Street, once a trolley route, runs the length of the island. Residents cruise around in golf carts even though there is no golf course. The beach has no restrooms, lifeguards or parking lots. 
 Thanks to the nation's unprecedented and currently much-debated real estate boom, houses in top vacation spots like Sullivan's Island have been fetching record prices. And those prices have been fueling a record number of sales. There were 2.82 million second-home sales last year -- 1.8 million were strictly investments, and just over a million were vacation homes. The total sales marked a 16 percent increase from the previous year, according to the National Association of Realtors. But there's surprisingly little information available on vacation home markets, mainly because second homes typically aren't differentiated in the public record from primary homes. 
 To get a better sense of what's going on in the nation's priciest vacation markets, The New York Times asked Fidelity National Financial, a major real estate title insurer, to help identify high-end second-home markets across the nation. To locate spots with a significant number of these homes, the study used 2000 census data, organized by the Queens College sociology department, which noted ZIP codes where at least 10 percent of homes are used seasonally. Then Fidelity looked at public sales records of single-family homes, the most comprehensive data available, since it includes not just houses sold by brokers, but also sales by owners and transactions at new developments. 
 All together, the research examined 358 second-home markets with median single-family home prices of at least $300,000. The study also threw out any ZIP codes with fewer than 70 sales during the last year, eliminating some high-priced areas with just a handful of houses like Wainscott, N.Y., in the Hamptons, where just 16 homes sold last year. Finally, the data was sorted by state to identify the priciest markets in each one. 
 Top of the heap? Not surprisingly, it was Aspen, Colo., where the median home price through the end of 2004 was nearly $2.5 million. But even the most jaded real estate hound might be surprised by the fact that some ''fractionals'' (a fancy name for time shares) in Aspen are now going for $1 million for six weeks -- and that a teardown will cost you even more. 
 Aspen wasn't the only well-known finisher. At the top of the most-expensive list are many familiar names: Newport Beach, Calif. (its quaint Balboa Island, to be specific); Palm Beach, Fla., known for its Gatsby-era architecture and highbrow shopping; Water Mill, N.Y., a standout even in the wealthy Hamptons on Long Island's famous East End. But sprinkled among them were some destinations that might be familiar to aficionados, but not to the wider public. 
 They are places like Sullivan's Island; or Jamestown, R.I., a stone's throw from Newport; or Mantoloking, N.J., where about 525 homes sit on a sliver of land less than half a square mile between the Atlantic Ocean and Barnegat Bay. There are no restaurants or hotels in that town, just a fire department, police department and post office. And the local yacht club has a four-year waiting list to get in.
 Cathy Diehl, a mother of four from West Hartford, Conn., and her husband bought a four-bedroom house on Barnegat Bay in Mantoloking for about $1 million five years ago. ''We could probably get $3 million for it now,'' Ms. Diehl said. 
 And she's probably right, though she's quick to add she has no plans to sell. Though price growth has slowed since 2003, when it was a stunning 41 percent, the median price of a house in Mantoloking still grew 34 percent through last year to $1.3 million. As the days of summer wound down in late August, the least expensive home for sale was a two-bedroom condominium across the street from a yacht club and two blocks from the beach. The asking price was $695,000.
 WHETHER well known or obscure, the top markets had a few things in common, beginning with size. Few of the Top 12 on the list are bigger than 15 square miles. That means homes are relatively scarce and the market has built-in limits, driving up prices. Then there's water. All but Aspen and Scottsdale, Ariz., were either on water or surrounded by it. And without exception they're a reasonable drive -- or helicopter flight -- from a major city. 
 Many of these places have seen enormous changes in a relatively short time. Just 30 years ago, Princeville, Hawaii, which came in as the ninth most expensive in the study, with a median home price of $715,000 in 2004, was a vast expanse of farmland set on a rolling, green bluff above Hanalei Bay on the north shore of Kauai. Now it's among the most exclusive planned developments on that island, with at least 1,500 condo units and almost 600 houses across 9,000 acres. There are also a luxury hotel, two acclaimed golf courses, tennis courts, a commuter airport and a shopping center, all of which have helped send the median home price skyrocketing 42 percent through the end of 2004. 
 ''We have limited land and increased demand, and that drives prices,'' said Donna Apisa, president of Oceanfront Realty in Princeville.
 Jamestown, R.I., also had a history of farming before it became a summer retreat. Sitting at the mouth of Narragansett Bay and looking out the Atlantic Ocean, this 9.5-square-mile island has never been developed as a commercial area or a port. Dotted with historic sites and a few remaining farms, the island has a quiet, rural character with a mix of historic and modern buildings, parks and docks -- and a median home price of $558,750 for the first half of this year, up 36 percent from $410,000 for the same period last year, according to the Rhode Island Association of Realtors. Even so, brokers say, it's a relative bargain for Bostonians and New Yorkers who have been priced out of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket.
 While talk of a real estate bubble is rampant these days (''Mr. Housing Bubble'' T-shirts are being sold on the Internet), these top markets have continued to appreciate -- most saw double digit gains last year -- though in some places more slowly than in recent years. The median home price in Water Mill climbed 31 percent to nearly $1.6 million last year compared with the year before. Though that would still be considered a huge increase at nearly any other time and place, it's down from the 50 percent surge in 2003. 
 Have these markets peaked? Mike Sklarz, head of analytics at Fidelity, who conducted the study for The Times, doesn't think so. ''No one really knows when the market will peak,'' he said. The significant run-up in prices could mean a slowdown as towns get too pricey for all but a small segment of second-home buyers. But Mr. Sklarz said that a number of long-term underlying factors, including heightened interest in real estate investing and strong demand from baby boomers approaching retirement age ''tend to be quite positive.''
 Indeed, many of the buyers in these top markets aren't really buying weekend homes, which tend to be within driving distance of a primary residence. In Jamestown, people are ''not buying the traditional vacation home people would buy 10 or 20 years ago,'' said Paul Leys, co-owner of Gustave White Sotheby's International Realty in nearby Newport. ''They're buying their future principal residence.'' 
 Richard and Margaret Harris live in Dallas, but when they went shopping for a vacation home, it was an eight-hour plane ride away, in Princeville, where they were married seven years ago. In 2003 they bought their first place there, a two-bedroom condo. In June the couple bought a larger two-bedroom unit with a view of the bay and the mountains, which they plan to rent to vacationers for about $320 a night when they're not around. ''We really bought the first one more as investment,'' said Mr. Harris, who is 54. ''We're looking at the second one as some place where we could eventually retire.''
 If housing prices do stumble, as some economists predict they will as interest rates rise, those in vacation areas may be hard hit as discretionary spending slows. Investors may also pull out quickly as prospects for big returns start to dim. The most expensive destinations, however, may see less impact, since the wealthiest home buyers often are not deterred by rising interest rates or an economic downturn. 
 Some real estate agents maintain that today's prices will hold. ''If there is a drop it will not be that large,'' said Michael Van Sciver, a broker at B&K Real Estate in Mantoloking. ''There will always be people out there that want to be near the water.''
 That's so far been the case on Sullivan's Island, the seventh most expensive market in the study. Sullivan's has long been popular with buyers from nearby Charleston, who flock to the beach each summer to escape the oppressive city heat. The island was hit hard by Hurricane Hugo in 1989. But the insurance money that followed the storm sparked a building boom, and many of the modest beach bungalows that weathered the storm have since fallen to the wrecking ball to make way for oversized McBeachhouses, some topping 8,000 square feet. Things had gotten so out of scale that earlier this year the Town Council limited new houses to 5,600 square feet. That's on top of rental restrictions that prevent owners from leasing their places out for less than four weeks at a time. Today, just 72 of the island's 850 homes can legally be leased short term. 
 Those restrictions didn't bother Greg and Mary Beth Usry. Earlier this year, the couple, from Rye, N.Y., bought a four-bedroom vacation home on Sullivan's Island. ''It just felt more like a community more than a resort,'' Ms. Usry said. ''It has a very casual you-don't-have-to-get-dressed-up-to-go-to-dinner-like-in-the-Hamptons kind of feel.'' 
 But some longtime residents worry the new popularity will ruin the island's serenity. ''I don't blame people for wanting to come here,'' said May Jones, 61, who has lived on the island for 30 years. But the influx of newcomers and sky-high prices are ''like killing the goose that laid the golden egg,'' she said. ''What made this paradise was it was a laid-back place to live.'' 

Where the Deals Aren't
The nation's most expensive second-home markets.

TOWN (ZIP CODE) / 2004 MEDIAN HOME PRICE

ASPEN, COLO. (81611) / $2.47 million
No surprise that this ritzy ski resort is the most expensive second-home market in the country. But there's one surprising fact: $1 million won't even buy a teardown anymore.

PALM BEACH, FLA. (33480) / $2.08 million
Ronald O. Perelman sold his home here last year for $70 million. But though prices are high, turnover of high-end homes in this old-line resort can be slow.

NEWPORT BEACH, CALIF. (92662) / $1.82 million
This ZIP code belongs to the city of Newport Beach but consists of tiny manmade Balboa Island. It's nestled between the Balboa Peninsula and Pacific Coast Highway and has experienced a 40 percent rise in the median home price in the last year.

WATER MILL, N.Y. (11976) / $1.58 million
 The median home price in this section of the Hamptons climbed 31 percent last year. Other Hamptons towns had even higher prices but have fewer sales last year.

MANTOLOKING. N.J. (08738) / $1.33 million
Wall Street types arrive by helicopter for weekends on this strip of high-end beach houses on the Jersey Shore. On the market right now is a five-bedroom bayfront house with sweeping views and a $6.25 million asking price.

NANTUCKET, MASS. (02554) / $1.15 million
No shock here. Once a whaling village, this 50-square-mile fishhook-shaped island off Cape Cod is dominated by the hyper-rich.

SULLIVAN'S ISLAND, S.C. (29482) / $1.1 million
Edgar Allan Poe's short story ''The Gold Bug'' is based on Sullivan's Island, which was an Army post through World War II. Median home prices jumped 51 percent last year.

HENDERSON, NEV. (89011) / $805,000
Including Lake Las Vegas, a 3,592-acre planned resort community just 17 miles from the Strip, this ZIP code was once a swampy canyon through which flowed sewage from southern Nevada. Now it has an artificial lake and faux-Tuscan villas.

PRINCEVILLE, HAWAII (96722) / $715,000
Once vast farmland, Princeville is now among the most exclusive planned developments on Kauai. The median price for single-family homes soared 42 percent through the end of last year.

OXFORD, MD. (21654) / $620,000
A wealthy Chesapeake Bay port in the 17th and 18th centuries, Oxford is now a peaceful and sophisticated waterfront town whose residents are seeing sharp increases in the values of their homes.

SCOTTSDALE, ARIZ. (85262) / $528,000
The median home price was up 12 percent last year over 2003 in this northern swath of a resort community famed for its desert climate and its golf courses.

JAMESTOWN, R.I. (02835) / $473,000
Better-known Newport is just over the bridge from this island at the mouth of Narragansett Bay. Prices have been rising steadily -- these days, even close to $600,000 doesn't guarantee a view of the water.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WEEKEND DESTINATIONS -- Jamestown, R.I., top, attracts second-home buyers with its quiet, rural character. Sullivan's Island, S.C., above and below, has the atmosphere of a casual beach town. (Photographs by Stephen Morton for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. F7)Drawing (Drawing by Christiane Beauregard)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (87%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WEATHER (78%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); HISTORY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); MEN'S CLOTHING (70%); GOLF (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); CENSUS (62%); SOCIOLOGY (60%) Housing; Travel and Vacations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL INC (51%)

TICKER: FNF (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%)

PERSON: Michelle Higgins

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Sullivan's Island (Sc); Aspen (Colo); Nantucket (Mass); Palm Beach (Fla); Hamptons, the (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



187 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: From UBS's Suite of Power to the Sweat of a Hedge Fund

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
On June 30, John P. Costas, the chief executive of UBS's investment bank, pulled out of his driveway in his black Lexus sport utility vehicle, and drove to the bank's giant Stamford, Conn., office.
 Three days later, he went in the other direction, to Manhattan, where he walked into an empty set of offices without his secretary (she could not find the new office), with no pictures on the wall and with a yellow pad holding a five-page to-do list, much of it in his own indecipherable handwriting.
In the space of 72 hours, Mr. Costas had gone from UBS chief executive to UBS hedge fund manager. Power on Wall Street is rarely given up without a struggle. But unlike other instances of top-level turnover -- just look at Morgan Stanley -- the decision of Mr. Costas to leave the chief executive suite was quiet, self-imposed and remarkably swift. He left on Friday. His successor, Huw Jenkins, took over his office on Monday. 
 ''It might have been the smoothest transition in the history of Wall Street,'' Mr. Costas, 48, joked weeks later.
 His move illustrates much about the brave new world of Wall Street. While he oversaw a remarkable transformation, turning the Swiss bank's sleepy American investment bank into one of Wall Street's elite, the siren song of the hedge fund was irresistible. 
 ''I love building stuff,'' he said. 
 So when the bank contemplated starting a giant hedge fund to capture the talent of a small group of 120 bond and other fixed-income traders, he asked for the job. 
 That group, which also includes the commercial real estate trading unit, is now part of the new venture, called Dillon Read Capital Management. UBS invested an estimated $2 billion to $3 billion in the venture, according to two people inside the company, making the initial work for Mr. Costas significantly easier.
 ''We have the chance to be the No.1 alternative asset management company in the world,'' he said.
 The move is not without risks. Interest rates are rising, making it harder for banks to borrow at low rates and lend or invest at higher ones, meaning hedge funds may not find it so easy to make money with fixed-income strategies. 
 Second-quarter profit of UBS were far from impressive, with fixed-income revenue down 30 percent from the first quarter of the year and 24 percent lower from the quarter a year ago.
 The new venture includes a number of businesses that face tremendous volatility and uncertainty. Fears of a real estate bubble are widespread and the bursting of such a bubble would have a major impact on the commercial real estate market.
 None of that appears to faze Mr. Costas, who, like every good salesman, sees the hedge fund and fixed-income markets as pure opportunity. 
 So why abandon the suite of power for the sweat of the trading floor?
 ''Most C.E.O.'s do not leave peacefully,'' said Roy Smith, a professor of finance at New York University and a former partner at Goldman Sachs. ''But there's a motivation to leave, a function of the monetary inducement of running a hedge fund and a $3 billion infusion without having to run around raising the money,'' he said. 
 The economics of the hedge fund business -- fees of 1 to 2 percent and 20 percent of the profits -- mean that Mr. Costas could make more money as a trader than as a Wall Street chief executive.
 But Mr. Costas, who grew up in a middle-class family in Philadelphia -- and remains a devoted Philadelphia Eagles fan -- insists his career shift was not about money.
 ''At the end of the day, it came down to what I do from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.,'' he said.
 ''You live once so it was for the challenge of building a world-class business, not just the money associated with it.'' 
 What makes his decision seemingly odd -- or perhaps just very wise -- is his success at UBS. After epic failures at trying to break into the cutthroat investment banking business, UBS may be the only foreign bank to have entered Wall Street's ''bulge bracket,'' or Top 5 ranking. Market share of all investment banking revenue for deals in the United States soared from 2000 through August of this year, going from 2.4 percent to 5.3 percent, according to Dealogic, a data provider.
 During the five-year period, the top players' percentage of total investment banking revenue fell.
 ''They are the only one to have broken into the U.S. successfully,'' said Matthew Spick, a securities analyst at Deutsche Bank. ''You could say Credit Suisse First Boston did it, but they did it by buying First Boston. UBS did it organically.''
 From 2002 to 2004, when Mr. Costas took over as chief executive of the global investment bank, pretax profits surged 47 percent, to $3.6 billion.
 The stellar results of UBS are a combination of luck, branding and opportune business decisions. In 1999, UBS was an also-ran on Wall Street despite being one of the largest private banks in the world. The bank had taken many stabs at building or buying a presence in the United States, only to reverse strategy, pull back or shop the bank at different times.
 Indeed, things were so grim at UBS that an e-mail message circulated on Wall Street in 1999 with a replica of the poster from ''Saving Private Ryan'' featuring UBS's chairman, Marcel Ospel, instead of Tom Hanks, with the phrase, ''Saving Private Banking.'' 
 In 2000, Mr. Ospel decided to once again build a significant presence in the United States. UBS bought PaineWebber and after a shake-up Mr. Costas took over in December 2001 as chief executive of UBS Warburg.
 With Mr. Ospel's support, Mr. Costas went on a hiring spree. His timing was perfect: Wall Street was reeling from the bursting of the technology bubble and top-flight bankers who would have scoffed at UBS in 1999 were willing to listen -- and join -- the bank.
 While the Street shunned research, incapable of making money from the business after it was separated from investment banking, Mr. Costas decided to bulk up. Using the backbone of a major global trading platform, Mr. Costas relentlessly called on clients to let them know that UBS had a distribution capacity far more global than many of its top tier rivals on Wall Street. Today UBS handles one of every nine shares traded globally.
 The markets worked with the plan. The recession lasted long enough to snag top talent and turned fast enough to capitalize on that talent in a record year of profits in 2003. 
 ''From a franchise that was essentially European-centric,'' Jacques-Henri Gaulard, an analyst with Merrill Lynch wrote in a report last February, UBS investment banking and securities business ''has turned into a global franchise with a strong footprint in the U.S.''
 United States corporate and investment banking revenue went from 22 percent of 1999 revenue at UBS to 51 percent in 2003, according to Merrill Lynch estimates and UBS data. The compound growth rate for that business from 1999 to 2003 was 28 percent. 
 ''There was a bit of luck involved, mostly attributed to our timing,'' acknowledged Mr. Costas.
 ''We got a lot of bang for our investment dollar because of the market correction of 2001 and 2002.''
 Having the machine of UBS behind him helped. As business has become more global -- the investment bank was able to leverage its traditional strengths in Europe and Asia to its growing client base in the United States. Its top-tier credit rating meant that it could borrow money at historically low rates. With the bank's enormous capital base, it was essentially a moneymaking machine. 
 ''We actually achieved and exceeded the goal of becoming a market leader with critical mass in all three time zones in all of our products. That's never happened. Period,'' Mr. Costas said. 
 Mr. Costas is cut from a different cloth than many other chief executives. He shuns public functions (''I don't look good in a tux,'' he said), and does not seem to care about the fact that UBS is still treated like a second-class citizen by others on Wall Street. He seems to relish his roots -- he is married to his date from his high school junior prom -- from his loyalty to the Eagles to being adamant about attending the sports functions of his children.
 Not only did he coach Little League, he attended all but one of his daughter's high school rowing regattas.
 Which may be the real story behind Mr. Costas's move. With all the power and glory of being a chief executive -- and to be fair, he was the chief of one unit of a sprawling Swiss bank -- it may just be more fun being a trader. Out of the executive suite and back to the trading floor, Mr. Costas has leapt from the behind the scenes into the fray and back to his roots.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Costas leads Dillon Read Capital Management in Manhattan. (Photo by Peter Foley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (86%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Ubs Ag

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: John P Costas; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



188 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: Conserve, and Drill

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The statement in your editorial, ''but the focus must be finally on reducing oil consumption,'' ignores the most important and missing part of our energy policy: increasing our oil production.
Our nation's economy largely depends on this. To avoid the next sticker shock at the gas pump, we must make increased oil production the cornerstone of our policy, while carrying out reasonable conservation practices.
 We must garner the political will to do what we should have done a decade ago: extract oil from places like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and off the coast of California.
 Ignoring production at the expense of conservation is inviting the next energy crisis.

Jay Elliott
Wilton, Conn., Sept. 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CONSUMPTION (88%); TROPICAL STORMS (85%); HURRICANES (74%); WEATHER (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); WILDLIFE (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm; Production

PERSON: Jay Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) ARCTIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



189 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE RESTAURANT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Ruth Built the Steakhouse. Katrina Intervened.

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 8 

 BODY:
It was the steakhouse that Ruth built, a New Orleans institution that sizzled over the last four decades not just as a tourist favorite but also as a popular hangout for the city's power brokers.
 But last Wednesday, not long after the levees burst in New Orleans, the top executives of Ruth's Chris Steak House gathered here in the lobby of the downtown Orlando Embassy Suites for an hourlong, soul-searching meeting.
As the executives debated whether to operate out of temporary quarters in another city while keeping their headquarters just outside New Orleans or to relocate permanently elsewhere, they decided that there were simply too many unknowns about the future of the city where their nationwide chain of 88 restaurants got its start. 
 How long would the airport remain closed to commercial traffic? How soon would their office building and the surrounding area be accessible? Where would the 58 people in its headquarters live?
 Given all that, not to mention the cost and disruption of uprooting employees and their families twice, the group unanimously agreed the right decision was to move its headquarters while they began the long process of restoring their two New Orleans restaurants and a third that was destroyed in Biloxi. 
 ''It was probably one of the toughest decisions that I ever had to make: to tell my people that we are not going back,'' said Craig S. Miller, the chief executive of Ruth's Chris.
 Many other businesses in New Orleans, particularly those with public shareholders, face a similar quandary. And as others struggle to get back on their feet, the quick, practical decision by Ruth's Chris may foreshadow a painful exodus of a number of other companies from the city and surrounding region.
 Ruth's Chris executives say they are not abandoning their company's heritage, only their headquarters in the New Orleans suburb of Metairie. After all, it was during an earlier hurricane that the steakhouse first endeared itself to residents of the Crescent City.
 Just three months after Ruth Fertel, its founder, mortgaged her house for an $18,000 loan to buy the Chris Steak House in 1965, Hurricane Betsy stormed through the Gulf Coast and cut off electricity in New Orleans. Not wanting to spoil thousands of pounds of beef, she cooked steaks over a gas stove while her brother served them to victims and relief workers who flocked to her restaurant. Later, those same people came back as customers.
 But that storm did not overwhelm New Orleans the way Katrina did. Nor did it pose the same challenge to Ruth's Chris, now a newly public company with a responsibility to shareholders it has never before known. Indeed, only last month Ruth's Chris was celebrating its initial public offering as the largest restaurant chain to do so since Domino's Pizza started trading in 2004.
 The Friday before Hurricane Katrina struck, Ruth's Chris was riding high. Its executives held a preopening party at the new restaurant planned for the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Biloxi, a party attended by the mayor and local V.I.P.'s. But by Tuesday, the building was decimated.
 The company's stock price was pounded as well. After climbing just shy of $21 a share in the days before the storm hit, it dropped to $18.37 yesterday.
 Ruth's Chris executives say they do not have good damage estimates because they have been unable to visit any of the restaurant sites. 
 Shortly after the party in Biloxi ended, the forecasts of the storm's target narrowed. When conditions worsened on Sunday, Mr. Miller and Geoffrey Stiles, the chief operating officer, flew with their spouses to Orlando, where both have ties. As Katrina slammed into the coast early Monday morning, the two men began calling each other hourly with updates and emergency plans, switching between cable channels to monitor conditions back home as best they could.
 ''We started really taking a serious look at a game plan,'' Mr. Miller said. ''How do we start and get this company up and running in basically a week? That's about all we had.''
 By Tuesday, the two men had set up a makeshift communications center in Mr. Miller's condominium and contacted their senior management team, asking them to come to Orlando to take on specific tasks. One started the insurance claim process; another set up a live-operator employee hotline.
 With temporary office space secured in Orlando, the company hired brokers to scout for a more permanent home in six major cities: Atlanta; Baton Rouge, La.; Dallas; Houston; Orlando; and Tampa, Fla. By Thursday, only Dallas and Orlando remained as contenders. After negotiating tax incentives from economic development officials in Seminole County in Florida, and seeking approval from the company's board, they had the keys to a fully furnished 21,000-square-foot corporate office and training center by late Friday afternoon. This week, they were putting up Post-it notes with manager's names on the doors. 
 The company also quickly established procedures for manually writing paychecks so their employees could immediately obtain cash. The decided that any of the 400 or so Ruth's Chris employees who worked in the Gulf Coast region could go to any of their steakhouses elsewhere to pick up their paycheck and get a job, provided they were prepared to relocate. 
 Franchise owners were updated on the company's situation, but most had already chipped in.
 On Friday last week, the executives learned that the company's first quarterly report would be delayed. The downtown New Orleans office of its auditor, KPMG, was severely damaged and working copies of some financial documents were under water. Over the weekend, the executive team chartered planes for a trip to recover important data from the corporate offices in Metairie; they also retrieved three pictures of Ruth Fertel.
 This week, much of the attention has been focused on addressing employee needs. Of the 400 employees forced to relocate by the hurricane, about 75 percent have contacted the company. A planning meeting here on Wednesday dealt with an array of subjects, from determining where and when to buy ads on Gulf Coast radio stations encouraging employees to call in. The company plans to establish a formal job bank by Friday to identify all potential positions available for employees forced to move. 
 ''Quite honestly, I don't want to wait more than a day,'' Mr. Stiles said. ''Let's not let process get in the way of progress.'' 
 While all senior executives have already agreed to relocate, so far only about 60 percent of the corporate staff have said they will move.
 But the bigger question facing the company is whether leaving New Orleans at its time of greatest need -- something outsiders say that Ruth Fertel, who died in 2002, would have never done -- will come back to haunt Ruth's Chris, particularly when its new headquarters is in Orlando, known for its suburban sprawl and dozens of bland food outlets. ''When they give you a start, you kind of owe it to the city,'' said Brad Brennan, a member of the family that owns Brennan's Restaurant and Commander's Palace, a small New Orleans-based company with restaurants in Las Vegas and Houston, too. Mr. Brennan vows to return as soon as he can. ''Payback is staying your ground,'' he said, ''and employing the people that want to remain there and want to be employed.''
 Mr. Miller vigorously defends the company's decision. And he argues that with half of his employees in the area without homes and current prospects for good-paying jobs in New Orleans dim, the best thing Ruth's Chris can do is provide a steady paycheck in other locations for its employees thrown out of work.
 ''If I had the choice and it was at all feasible to operate in New Orleans, why would I move?'' Mr. Miller asked rhetorically. ''If Ruth had been running a public restaurant company, she would have done exactly what we did.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers wired new offices for Ruth's Chris Steak House in Orlando last week. Executives decided to relocate two days after the hurricane.
 Executives of the restaurant chain in Orlando. They hope to reopen restaurants in New Orleans, but the headquarters move is permanent. (Photographs by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''A Rough Start''Ruth's Chris stock price since going public.Graph tracks Ruth's Chris stock price since going public (Aug.).(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (86%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (66%); WEATHER (61%) Restaurants; Relocation of Business; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

COMPANY: RUTH'S HOSPITALITY GROUP INC (86%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Ruth's Chris Steak House

TICKER: RUTH (NASDAQ) (86%); DPZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (86%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (86%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%)

PERSON: Eric Dash; Craig S Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (95%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La); Orlando (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



190 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE VICE PRESIDENT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: 'Going to Get It Done,' Cheney Vows on Gulf Tour

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN; Campbell Robertson contributed reporting from Gulfport, Miss., for this article.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
For this disaster President Bush needed his second in command to be a visible presence, not a force operating from a secure undisclosed location. So Vice President Dick Cheney on Thursday joined the blitz of administration officials tromping through the havoc the hurricane left, declaring, ''We're making significant progress.''
 He walked a once-well-to-do block of Gulfport, Miss., where homes had been pulverized into piles of planks. He stood on a foul-smelling bridge here overlooking the sandbag-filled breach in the 17th Street Canal levee. And he defended the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and other federal officials who have come under fire, while promising that the government could wage war in Iraq and recover from the hurricane without a tax increase. 
''If there's a place on the face of the earth that has the resources to deal with these problems it's the United States of America, and we're going to get it done,'' Mr. Cheney said here in one of two rare question-and-answer sessions with reporters. ''There's no question there were problems with respect to the evacuation in New Orleans. We've gotten around that problem now, and I think everyone's focused on the future.''
 In creased khakis and a crisp blue button-down shirt, his laminated schedule and a silver pen in his breast pocket, Mr. Cheney struck a sharply different pose than he did during the last national catastrophe, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, when his leadership was considered so crucial that he was kept separate from President Bush and largely out of sight for weeks at a time. 
 He said he would return to the region on Saturday, most likely to the eye of the disaster-diaspora in Texas. Mr. Bush has visited the Gulf Coast twice in the past week, the secretaries of state and defense have made tours, and an array of cabinet officers is expected Friday.
 Mr. Cheney expressed little emotion at what he had witnessed, instead taking the pragmatic problem-solver tack. Among the long-term issues he said he was concerned about were whether people without flood insurance would be covered under their homeowners' policies since the waters stemmed from a hurricane, how displaced people would receive their Social Security, unemployment and other government benefits, and long-term housing for evacuees. 
 In Gulfport, a block off the ocean on Second Street, in a neighborhood so devastated that residents needed permits to visit their destroyed properties and had to be out by dark, a heckler in an orange shirt hurled profanities twice to disrupt Mr. Cheney's remarks, but the vice president just smiled his lopsided smile and, when asked, said it was the first time he had heard such guff.
 He got a better reception at the home of Becky Dubuisson, 51, an administrator at NASA, where a picket fence was washed up in the yard and the storm surge had come up to the first floor.
 ''You're out here sweating and sweating, putting on bug spray, and the vice president shows up -- it lifts your spirits,'' said Dan Younghouse, Ms. Dubuisson's brother-in-law, who had come from Albertville, Ala., to help her clean. ''With the magnitude of it all, where do you start? As far as I'm concerned, this is as good as could be expected.''
 In New Orleans, at the 17th Street Canal on the soaked border with suburban Metairie, Mr. Cheney leaned over to touch the 7,000-pound sandbags that Chinook helicopters had deposited into the levee breaches that let the floodwaters flow. Then he shook hands with about a hundred Coast Guard members who had spent more than a week rescuing stranded residents, and looked over the levee, where homes remained under water up to their second-story windows, and little more than the steeple was showing of the Pontchartrain Baptist Church. 
 A huge pipe pumped sludge-filled water the color of Army fatigues from the street back into the lake, a fire burned at one submerged house, and the toxic blend filled the air with a sulfurlike stench. 
 ''You've got to recognize the severity of what Mother Nature did to us here,'' Mr. Cheney said when asked what had gone wrong in the hurricane's aftermath. He endorsed the notion of a Congressional committee's examining the response, but fretted at the politicization of the issue, saying the hurricane survivors he had met were not playing the blame game consuming much of Washington and Baton Rouge.
 ''Not one of them asks us those questions,'' he said. ''They're not looking backwards. They're not worried about whether someone is a Republican or a Democrat. They're focused on the task at hand.''
 Asked in Mississippi whether FEMA should be headed by political appointees like its current director, Michael D. Brown, rather than career disaster professionals, Mr. Cheney said, ''You got to have people at the top who respond to and are selected by presidents.''
 Mr. Cheney was traveling with his wife, Lynne; Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales -- who made a side trip to the makeshift jail at a Greyhound station -- and Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security. He was also joined here by Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana, a Democrat, and Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana.
 Governor Blanco, who had been critical of the administration's initial handling of the hurricane's aftermath, said after the visit, ''I think the federal response is going to be more than adequate from here on out.
 ''We need them for the long haul by our side,'' she said as Mr. Cheney left for Baton Rouge, where he was debriefed at the state Emergency Operations Center. ''I can walk with confidence that the federal government will stay by our side for many, many months to come.''
 Indeed, Mr. Cheney said he expected the rebuilding of New Orleans to ''last a good long time,'' vowing to ''bring it back better than ever, but that will take several years.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney visited a devastated section of Gulfport, Miss., yesterday before moving on to New Orleans. Though acknowledging earlier problems, he said, ''We're making significant progress.'' (Photo by M. Spencer Green/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); IRAQ WAR (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TERRORISM (69%); TAX LAW (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); INSURANCE POLICIES (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Campbell Robertson; Jodi Wilgoren; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Michael D (Dir) Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (94%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) New Orleans (La); Gulfport (Miss); Louisiana; Mississippi; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



191 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: COSTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: COST OF RECOVERY SURGES, AS DO BIDS TO JOIN IN EFFORT 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
With Congress primed to spend billions of dollars on the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, lawmakers and industry groups are lining up to bring home their share of the cascade of money for rebuilding and relief.
 White House officials and Congressional budget experts now assume that federal costs for the hurricane will shoot past $100 billion, which itself is more than twice the entire annual federal budget for domestic security. Congress on Thursday approved $51.8 billion in spending, bringing the total so far to more than $62 billion.
The demand for money comes from many directions. Louisiana lawmakers plan to push for billions of dollars to upgrade the levees around New Orleans, rebuild highways, lure back business and shore up the city's sinking foundation. The devastated areas of Mississippi and Alabama will need similar infusions of cash. 
 Communities will want compensation for taking in evacuees. And there will be future costs of health care, debris removal, temporary housing, clothing, vehicle replacement. Farmers from the Midwest, meanwhile, are beginning to press for emergency relief as a result of their difficulties in shipping grain through the Port of New Orleans. 
 Other ideas circulating through Congress that could entail significant costs include these notions: 
 Turning New Orleans and other cities affected by the storm into big new tax-free zones.
 Providing reconstruction money for tens of thousands of homeowners and small businesses that did not have federal flood insurance on their houses or buildings.
 Making most hurricane victims eligible for health care under Medicaid and having the federal government pay the full cost rather than the current practice of splitting costs with states.
 The torrent of money -- more than $2 billion a day over the weekend, and expected to remain above $500 million a day for the foreseeable future -- prompted several lawmakers to warn about the perils of an open checkbook.
 ''We are reaching a perfect political storm,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama. ''We have all the earmarks of a rush to spend money that is very dangerous.''
 Mr. Sessions called on President Bush to appoint a person with significant business experience to oversee the spending. Contained within the spending measure approved Thursday is a provision that directs an extra $15 million to the inspector general's office in the Department of Homeland Security. The agency is also ordered to provide at least weekly reports to Congress on the use of the money.
 Those safeguards, along with a decision by the administration to waive the federal law requiring that prevailing wages be paid on construction projects underwritten by federal dollars, were critical to persuading Congressional conservatives to vote for the money. It passed the House on 410-to-11 vote, with the only opposition coming from Republicans. The Senate vote was 97 to 0.
 But fiscal conservatives who supported the legislation on Thursday threatened to oppose future installments of money unless Congress and the administration begin to find ways to offset the spending so it is not just piled on top of the federal deficit.
 ''Congress must ensure that a catastrophe of nature does not become a catastrophe of debt for our children and grandchildren,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana and a conservative leader in the House.
 ''There is no sacrifice on the part of Congress,'' said Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, who said the decision to not cut spending elsewhere was a failure of leadership.
 The emergency spending plan also drew scrutiny from some lawmakers who contended that it raised the risk of fraud by increasing the spending limit on about 250,000 credit cards issued to government workers from $15,000 to $250,000. ''The use of government credit cards has a track record, and it is not a good one,'' Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, wrote in a letter urging Congressional leaders to delete the provision.
 But Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader and typically an opponent of increased spending for social programs, argued that Congress had no choice but to provide the financial assistance as quickly as possible.
 ''I know the American people, some of them are worrying about all this money,'' Mr. DeLay said. ''Ladies and gentlemen, five million people, five million Americans, deserve us finding a way to make them whole.''
 House Democrats complained that they were prevented Thursday from offering a proposal to sever the Federal Emergency Management Agency from the Department of Homeland Security and making other changes before turning over so much to the agency, which has come under withering fire for its storm response. Republicans said they did not want to impede the aid by getting caught up in a legislative fight, and they said Democrats would have opportunities later to offer the FEMA changes.
 Administration officials said the government spent about $2 billion a day last weekend, and the additional $51.8 billion would merely cover costs for ''the next few weeks.''
 Joshua B. Bolten, the White House budget director, said the spending rate last weekend stemmed in part from signing big contracts for debris removal and temporary housing. The government has already bought 100,000 trailers for temporary housing and is trying to buy 200,000 more.
 Of the new money, $23.2 billion is designated for temporary housing and other financial assistance to individuals. Another $11 billion is broadly aimed at ''mission assignments'' by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which will hire other agencies and companies for jobs like debris removal.
 FEMA will receive about $4.65 billion to pay for logistical needs, supplies and search-and-rescue operations. The Army Corps of Engineers will get $3 billion, essentially to pay for repairing the broken levees in New Orleans.
 But the relief money is not expected to cover any of the real reconstruction costs that lie ahead: repair of highways, bridges and other infrastructure and new projects that seek to prevent a repeat of the New Orleans disaster. Nor will it even help pay for expanded availability of food stamps and poverty programs to cover hurricane victims.
 ''I'm fearful that this will open the floodgates for money,'' said Chris Edwards, a budget analyst at the Cato Institute, a research group that supports reduced government spending. ''If they spend $1 billion a day for relief, that's fine. But down the road, state and local governments traditionally issue bonds for infrastructure when they need to build.''
 Shortly before the House voted to approve Mr. Bush's request for $51.8 billion, it approved a separate bill to let hurricane victims get more access to the federal welfare assistance for low-income families.
 Democratic lawmakers proposed a raft of their own proposals. Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, called for giving hurricane victims immediate access to Medicaid, the federal health program for low-income people, and letting victims collect unemployment payments for as long as one year.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators Jeff Sessions and Lamar Alexander talked at a roundtable discussion about Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. A22)
Cheryl Cook, top left, cried as she prepared to evacuate New Orleans and be separated from her dog, Trouble. Toni Miller, top right, was defiant about staying, but had a change of heart. An unidentified man, above, worried about leaving without his cat, which was hiding. (Photos by top left, Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
top right, Chris Hondros/Getty Images
 above, Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (94%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (86%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); MEDICAID (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); BULK SHIPPING (67%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%) Edmund L Andrews; Carl Hulse; Jeff (Sen) Sessions; George W (Pres) Bush; Tom (Rep) Delay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi ; Alabama 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



192 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans and Baghdad

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Memo to: Iraq's Kurdish, Shiite and Sunni leaders.
 From: An American friend.
Dear Sirs: As someone who really wishes you well, I am writing to give you my best sense of how the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina is going to affect the U.S. mission in Iraq. Let me begin with an analogy offered by Michael Mandelbaum, author of the forthcoming book ''The Case for Goliath: How America Acts as the World's Government in the 21st Century.'' He points out: ''The U.S. military presence in Iraq today is like the dikes and levees that were protecting New Orleans from the flood. The equivalent of the flood for Iraq is a civil war between Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds. The U.S. military right now is holding that back.'' 
 Therefore, the key question in Iraq is whether your constitutional process now unfolding can produce a power-sharing accord between Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds that can be a homegrown, self-sustaining dike against civil war, replacing the Americans. In the wake of Katrina, this is now an urgent question. No, we will not be pulling out tomorrow just because of Katrina, let alone before your December parliamentary elections. But after that, when we will be in a Congressional election year, who knows what pressures may build.
 Why? Because most Democrats have opposed the war from the start, and many Republicans no longer support the war per se, but only George Bush. The president has carried this war on his shoulders, and the more he's weakened politically by Katrina, the less he will be able to carry. Yes, Mr. Bush has said we'll do whatever it takes to finish the job in Iraq, but he said that before there was another huge job to do.
 Can you imagine if Mr. Bush had to go to Congress this week to ask for yet another $100 billion to keep fixing Iraq, when an entire U.S. city needs rebuilding? And the Katrina TV drama is not going away. Hell hath no fury like journalists with a compelling TV story where they get to be the heroes and the government the fools.
 Now, as for your draft constitution, it is at one level a remarkable document -- a rare example of the elected citizens of an Arab state having a horizontal dialogue and forging their own social contract. There is already more free politics in Iraq than anywhere else in the Arab world except Lebanon. But this draft constitution will come to life only if Iraqi Sunnis of good will publicly embrace it, and up to now they have not.
 Some Sunnis are intimidated, others are posturing for the elections, and some are acting in bad faith, still fantasizing that their Baath Party will come to power again. But Sunnis of good will, and Iraq has many, can be brought around if the constitution creates a politically and economically viable central government, and doesn't pave the way for Kurdish and Shiite separatism, which would leave the Sunnis isolated in central Iraq without power or oil.
 As Yitzhak Nakash, the Brandeis University expert on the Shiites, put it: ''We need to see a form of federalism in Iraq that is uniting Iraqis, not dividing them -- a form of federalism that gives Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds a degree of cultural and religious autonomy without compromising either Iraq's political unity or Baghdad's role as the locus of national politics. The draft constitution is not quite there yet.''
 I know how justifiably bitter the Shiites and the Kurds of Iraq are over what they have suffered at the hands of murderous Sunni Baathists and jihadist fascists. But it is in their interest and ours to see if we can nurture more Iraqi Sunnis who understand that their best future lies in working with a new Iraq, rather than trying to subvert it. Will Iraqi Sunnis, like the Palestinians, waste a generation trying to reverse history -- and destroy themselves and Iraq in the process? Or will they accept the fact that they are a minority that can no longer rule all of a fascist Iraq, but can get its fair share of power and oil in a free Iraq? I don't know. 
 The only way to find out is to make them an offer they can't refuse. If there is a constitution basically supported by all the key parties, a decent outcome is still possible in Iraq. Yes, Mr. Bush says he intends to stay the course there no matter what, but without a constitution embraced by all three communities, there will be no course to stay. The pressure on us to leave will only grow.
 And if the dikes of stability that U.S. soldiers are holding together in Iraq give way, well, you all will envy the people of New Orleans. Most of them had somewhere to go when their floods hit. You and your neighbors will not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); WEATHER (77%); CIVIL WAR (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); POLITICS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); JOURNALISM (66%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (65%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (61%); BAD FAITH (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Constitutions; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Elections; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: Congress (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); LEBANON (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



193 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: VW to Build Hybrid Minivan With Chinese

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLERand KEITH BRADSHER; Mark Landler reported from Frankfurt for this article and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
German carmakers, which have long favored diesel engines as their primary response to economic and environmental concerns, are scrambling to develop hybrid gasoline-electric cars, as the sales of these vehicles soar in many places along with fuel prices.
 Volkswagen said on Thursday that it would develop, assemble and sell a hybrid minivan in China in cooperation with a Chinese automaker -- a move that underlines the Chinese auto industry's rapid advance into a complex technological area of automotive design.
A day earlier, BMW announced that it would join an existing hybrid technology joint venture set up by General Motors and DaimlerChrysler. It did not say when it would roll out its first hybrid vehicle. 
 Volkswagen's announcement is its first public confirmation of plans to make and sell a hybrid anywhere in the world. It said it would develop hybrid technology on its own, rather than with a partner, for Europe and the United States, according to Reuters.
 The flurry of activity, analysts said, was being accelerated by recognition that hybrid vehicles could soon spread beyond niche markets. They said that German carmakers, because of their focus on clean-burning diesel fuel and futuristic technologies like hydrogen, were in danger of missing out.
 Toyota, which dominates the market, sold more than 60,000 hybrids in the first six months of 2005. It hopes to sell more than a million worldwide by early in the next decade. By 2008, Americans will be able to choose among some two dozen hybrid models from several carmakers.
 ''Until now,'' said Arndt Ellinghorst, an auto analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, ''the Germans thought, 'We can make it with diesel.' They saw hybrid as a technology that was just filling a gap. Now they're seeing that particularly in the U.S., they're missing a market.''
 While hybrid engines are in their infancy in China, the country's auto industry is adopting some of the latest technology from abroad and even seeking ways to improve it. 
 Several government ministries have been heavily subsidizing research by Chinese universities and automakers into hybrid-propulsion and fuel-cell vehicles, in the hope of leapfrogging Japanese and Western designs.
 The Chinese government has been increasingly intent on energy conservation, imposing gas-mileage requirements on all models of cars, minivans and sport utility vehicles introduced after July 1, and preparing to impose gas- guzzler taxes, too.
 Volkswagen said it planned to develop and build a hybrid Touran minivan, in cooperation with the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, and begin marketing it during the Beijing Olympics in 2008.
 Its announcement signified the first effort by a multinational automaker to develop a hybrid in China; Toyota has already announced plans to start building its popular Prius hybrid in the northeast late this year.
 A spokesman for Volkswagen in Beijing, Kai Gruber, said the company had chosen the Chinese market for its first hybrid because it was hard to sell diesel-powered cars in China.
 Diesel engines provide greater fuel efficiency than gasoline engines, and Volkswagen, like BMW and Mercedes, has focused on selling diesels in Europe, as world oil prices have risen in the last several years.
 But the quality of diesel fuel sold in China varies greatly, with drivers in some cities susceptible to buying poor quality fuel with high sulfur that ruins the pollution-control equipment in Volkswagen's latest engines.
 Some Chinese cities, notably Beijing, also ban diesel engines in cars, citing concerns about the emissions of particulates. Hybrids make sense in markets where diesel cars have no big share, Mr. Gruber said.
 Volkswagen has already begun collaborating with Tongji University in Shanghai to develop fuel-cell models, and it said Thursday that it would work with the university to develop the advanced electronics needed to make the electrical and mechanical systems operate together in a hybrid vehicle.
 Honda, Toyota's principal rival in the global market for hybrid vehicles, has not announced any plans to build or sell hybrids in China. But a spokesman said the company was aware that fast growth in Chinese auto sales might make hybrids attractive for the market.
 For BMW, the decision to join the G.M.-DaimlerChrysler venture was driven in part by a recognition that more advanced alternatives to fossil fuel, like hydrogen, might be further away than it first thought.
 BMW has built a version of its luxury 7-series sedan that runs on liquid hydrogen or gasoline. It hopes to develop a commercial version in the next three years, though it acknowledges that its market will be small.
 ''We recognize that the infrastructure and availability of liquid nitrogen has not developed the way we thought it would two years ago,'' a BMW spokesman, Michael Blabst, said.
 As a result, he said, the company decided to add hybrid technology to a strategy that includes clean-burning diesel fuel and hydrogen.
 BMW, based in Munich, said it had been attracted to the G.M.-DaimlerChrysler venture because of its focus on ''two-mode'' hybrid engines, in which a vehicle is powered differently during city driving than over long distances.
 ''Two-mode engines have benefits in short-range driving but they also perform well on the autobahn,'' Mr. Blabst said.
 Top executives from General Motors, BMW and DaimlerChrysler will appear together at the Frankfurt auto show on Monday to promote their partnership. With oil prices still near record levels, analysts said the industry gathering would be dominated by questions about how the carmakers could respond.
 Mr. Ellinghorst of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein said BMW's decision to team up on engine design with two rivals was a ''big concession,'' given its proud engineering heritage. But he indicated that it was a practical one because it would be too costly at this point to try to catch up with Toyota and other rivals on its own.
 As for Volkswagen, Mr. Ellinghorst said he was skeptical of the company's plans to go it alone everywhere but in China. ''I would have expected them to join up with someone else, instead of BMW,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about German carmakers developing hybrid gasoline-electric cars misstated a word in a quotation about fuel from Michael Blabst, a BMW spokesman. He said: ''We recognize that the infrastructure and availability of liquid hydrogen has not developed the way we thought it would two years ago,'' not ''liquid nitrogen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); HYBRID VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); MINIVANS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (73%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); OLYMPICS (64%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Sales; Production; Fuel Efficiency; Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Diesel Power; International Trade and World Market; Conservation of Resources

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%); SHANGHAI AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY CORP (61%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp; Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; General Motors Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Toyota Motor Corp; Volkswagen Ag

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (58%); BMW (BIT) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) CHINA (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%) Germany; China

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



194 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Vows to Seek Bonds To Finish School Construction

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: EWING, N.J., Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Senator Jon S. Corzine said on Thursday that if he is elected governor, he will ask voters to approve a statewide bond referendum to pay for the construction and renovation of schools in poor and urban districts, at a possible cost of billions of dollars.
 Mr. Corzine's plan would finish what New Jersey's troubled Schools Construction Corporation has said it will not complete after canceling more than 200 school projects around the state this summer. The agency concluded that its $8.6 billion construction budget would cover only half the projects it had expected to undertake. Mr. Corzine called the agency a ''disgrace.'' 
The senator also said he would bolster early childhood education in suburban and working-class areas by dedicating almost $24.5 million a year for full-day kindergarten, prekindergarten and after-school programs.
 ''It's the worst kind of theft to overpromise, underdeliver and undercut New Jersey's basic obligation to our kids,'' Mr. Corzine told an overflow crowd of mostly students here at the College of New Jersey.
 The comments were his most extensive yet on the perennially thorny issue of education, and they offered proposals of interest to both urban and suburban voters. Mr. Corzine, a Democrat, was trying to make the case that he, and not his Republican opponent, Douglas R. Forrester, would be the better education governor.
 While Mr. Corzine discussed education, Mr. Forrester was stumping on Thursday in Marlboro, emphasizing his plan to reduce property taxes by 30 percent over three years. 
 Both candidates have sharply criticized the New Jersey Schools Construction Corporation, which has drawn criticism for mismanagement and cost overruns. 
 In calling for a statewide bond referendum to finish the problem of overcrowded, run-down and inadequate schools, Mr. Corzine acknowledged that his proposal might be controversial, given the state's precarious finances. 
 As for secondary education, Mr. Corzine said that he wanted to require four years of high school math, rather than the current three. He also said he wanted more schools to teach Chinese, Arabic and other languages that will be more important in a 21st-century international economy.
 When asked about Mr. Corzine's proposals, Sherry Sylvester, Mr. Forrester's campaign director, said that they were ''long on platitudes, short on specifics,'' and that Republicans had been pushing for a referendum on school construction funds for five years.
 She said Mr. Forrester -- who has not talked much about education so far, other than noting that education costs are inextricably tied to property taxes -- would unveil his own education proposal within 10 days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUILDINGS (92%); SCHOOL BONDS (91%); BONDS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PROPERTY TAX (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); SUBURBS (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Education and Schools; Governors (US); Election Issues; Referendums; Building (Construction); Government Bonds; Taxation; Education and Schools; Property Taxes; Elections; Governors (US)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) David W Chen; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Douglas R Forrester

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



195 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Police Begin Seizing Guns Of Civilians

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON and JOHN M. BRODER; Alex Berenson reported from New Orleans for this article, and John M. Broder from Baton Rouge, La. Reporting was contributed by Sewell Chan from New Orleans, Jeremy Alford and Shaila Dewan from Baton Rouge and Ralph Blumenthal from Houston.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Local police officers began confiscating weapons from civilians in preparation for a forced evacuation of the last holdouts still living here, as President Bush steeled the nation for the grisly scenes of recovering the dead that will unfold in coming days.
 Police officers and federal law enforcement agents scoured the city carrying assault rifles seeking residents who have holed up to avoid forcible eviction, as well as those who are still considering evacuating voluntarily to escape the city's putrid waters.
''Individuals are at risk of dying,'' said P. Edwin Compass III, the superintendent of the New Orleans police. ''There's nothing more important than the preservation of human life.'' 
 Although it appeared Wednesday night that forced evacuations were beginning, on Thursday the authorities were still looking for those willing to leave voluntarily. The police said that the search was about 80 percent done, and that afterward they would begin enforcing Mayor C. Ray Nagin's order to remove residents by force.
 Mr. Bush, in Washington, urged the nearly one million people displaced by the storm to contact federal agencies to apply for immediate aid. He praised the outpouring of private charity to the displaced, but said the costs of restoring lives would affect all Americans, as would the horror of the storm's carnage.
 ''The responsibility of caring for hundreds of thousands of citizens who no longer have homes is going to place many demands on our nation,'' the president said in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. ''We have many difficult days ahead, especially as we recover those who did not survive the storm.''
 As Mr. Bush spoke, Vice President Dick Cheney was touring Mississippi and Louisiana, in part as an answer to the critics who have said that the administration responded too slowly and timidly to the epic disaster. At a stop in Gulfport, Miss., a heckler shouted an obscenity at the vice president. Mr. Cheney shrugged it off, saying it was the first such abuse he had heard.
 Also on Thursday, Congress approved a $51.8 billion package of storm aid, bringing the total to more than $62 billion in a week. The government is now spending $2 billion dollars a day to respond to the disaster.
 The confirmed death toll in Louisiana remained at 83 on Thursday. Efforts to recover corpses are beginning, although only a handful of bodies have been recovered so far. Official estimates of the death toll in New Orleans are still vague, but 10,000 remains a common figure.
 Mississippi officials said they had confirmed 196 dead as of Thursday, including 143 in coastal areas, although Gov. Haley Barbour said he expected the toll to rise.
 ''It would just be a guess, but the 200 or just over 300 we think is a credible and reliable figure,'' the governor said on NBC's ''Today'' show.
 He also said electricity would be restored by Sunday to most homes and businesses in the state that could receive it.
 No one would venture a prediction about when the lights would come back on in New Orleans. 
 The water continued to recede slowly in the city 10 days after Hurricane Katrina swept ashore and levees failed at several points, inundating the basin New Orleans sits in. 
 The Army Corps of Engineers has restored to operation 37 of the city's 174 permanent pumps, allowing them to drain 11,000 cubic feet of water per second from the basin. When all the pumps are working, they can remove 81,000 cubic feet of water per second, said Dan Hitchings of the engineering corps.
 It will be months before the breadth of the devastation from the storm is known. But a report by the Louisiana fisheries department calculated the economic loss to the state's important seafood industry at as much as $1.6 billion over the next 12 months.
 Louisiana's insurance commissioner, J. Robert Wooley, said the state had barred insurance companies from canceling any homeowner's insurance policies in the days immediately before the storm hit and afterward.
 ''All cancellations will be voided,'' Mr. Wooley said.
 Across New Orleans, active-duty soldiers, National Guard members and local law enforcement agencies from across the country continued door-to-door searches by patrol car, Humvee, helicopter and boat, urging remaining residents to leave.
 Maj. Gen. James Ron Mason of the Kansas National Guard, who commands about 25,000 Guard troops in and around New Orleans, said his forces had rescued 687 residents by helicopter, boat and high-wheeled truck in the past 24 hours.
 General Mason said Guard troops, although carrying M-16 rifles, would not use force to evict recalcitrant citizens. That, he said, was a job for the police, not members of the Guard.
 ''I don't believe that you will see National Guard soldiers actually physically forcing people to leave,'' General Mason said.
 Mr. Compass, the police superintendent, said that after a week of near anarchy in the city, no civilians in New Orleans will be allowed to carry pistols, shotguns, or other firearms of any kind. ''Only law enforcement are allowed to have weapons,'' he said.
 That order apparently does not apply to the hundreds of security guards whom businesses and some wealthy individuals have hired to protect their property. The guards, who are civilians working for private security firms like Blackwater, are openly carrying M-16s and other assault rifles.
 Mr. Compass said that he was aware of the private guards but that the police had no plans to make them give up their weapons.
 New Orleans has turned into an armed camp, patrolled by thousands of local, state, and federal law enforcement officers, as well as National Guard troops and active-duty soldiers. While armed looters roamed unchecked last week, the city is now calm. 
 The city's slow recovery is continuing on other fronts as well, local officials said at a late morning news conference. Pumping stations are now operating across much of the city, and many taps and fire hydrants have water pressure. Tests have shown no evidence of cholera or other dangerous diseases in flooded areas.
 With pumps running and the weather here remaining hot and dry, water has visibly receded across much of the city. Formerly flooded streets are now passable, although covered with leaves, tree branches and mud.
 Still, many neighborhoods in the northern half of New Orleans remain under 10 feet of water, and Mr. Compass said Thursday that the city's plans for a forced evacuation remained in effect because of the danger of disease and fires.
 Mr. Compass said he could not disclose when residents might be forced to leave en masse. The city's police department and federal law enforcement officers from agencies like United States Marshals Service will lead the evacuation, he said. Officers will search houses in both dry and flooded neighborhoods, and no one will be allowed to stay, he said.
 Many of the residents still in the city said they did not understand why the city remained intent on forcing them out.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 15 about the National Football League's effort to create a home-field atmosphere for the New Orleans Saints misstated the name of the New Orleans police superintendent, who was to take part in the coin toss at a game with the New York Giants. (The error also occurred in numerous articles between Sept. 3 and Sept. 14.) The superintendent, who announced his retirement on Tuesday, is Edwin P. Compass III, not P. Edwin Compass III.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); FIREARMS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (83%); HURRICANES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); CHARITIES (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); PHILANTHROPY (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Firearms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Philanthropy; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); HALEY BARBOUR (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Alex Berenson; John M Broder; Sewell Chan; Shaila Dewan; Jeremy Alford; Ralph Blumenthal; George W (Pres) Bush; Haley (Gov) Barbour

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (77%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La); Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



196 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Unskilled Work Force in Hurricane-Swept Area Could Complicate the Rebuilding Process
About one million people from New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast who were suddenly tossed out of their jobs by Hurricane Katrina have fanned out across the country, seeking help from friends, employers and government agencies.
 But the makeup of the Gulf Coast work force -- heavy on warehouse employees and blackjack dealers, light on bankers and factory workers -- has already complicated relief efforts and appears likely to worsen Hurricane Katrina's economic damage. [Page C1.]

The nation's gasoline inventories fell to their lowest levels in almost five years last week, the government said, quantifying for the first time Hurricane Katrina's impact on energy supplies and production. [C5.]

As fuel prices rise, so too has the number of people who are stealing gasoline. Gas station owners are reporting a surge in the number of drivers who pull up to the pump, fill up and drive off without paying. [C4.]

Ruth's Chris Steak House, the national restaurant chain, decided to move its headquarters to Orlando, from New Orleans. The decision may be the start of an exodus of a number of other companies from New Orleans. [C1.]

Officials in Louisiana said that the economic impact on the commercial and recreational fishing industries along the coastline could reach $1.6 billion over the next 12 months. [C4.]

A Management Shake-Up at Sears Holdings
The chairman of Sears Holdings, Edward S. Lampert, shook up the company, ousting the chief executive Alan J. Lacy, left, and replacing him with Aylwin B. Lewis, who had been chief of Kmart. Mr. Lampert will oversee marketing, merchandising, design and online operations at the company. Mr. Lacy will continue as a director and vice chairman. The move came as Sears reported a 2 percent drop in overall sales for the second quarter. [C1.]

A Brave New Move on Wall Street
Power on Wall Street is rarely given up without a struggle. So why did John Costas leave the chief executive suite at UBS's investment bank to become a UBS hedge fund manager? [C1.]

Senate May Compromise on Change in the Estate Tax
A Senate vote to repeal the estate tax is possible later in this Congressional session. If it does not pass, there is some speculation that a compromise to cut estate tax rates by two-thirds might be approved. Floyd Norris. [C1.]

Shares Decline on Profit-Taking by Investors
Stocks were lower as investors collected profits after the strong gains of the previous two sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 37.57 points, to 10,595.93. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.69 points, to 1,231.67, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 6 points, to 2,166.03. [C6.]

German Automakers See Hybrid Vehicles in Their Future
German carmakers are scrambling to develop hybrid gasoline-electric cars, as the sales of the vehicles soar around the world, along with fuel prices. [C3.]

EBay Said to Be in Talks to Buy Internet Phone Company
EBay is in negotiations to acquire Skype Technologies, the Internet telephone company, for $2 billion to $3 billion, two people involved in the negotiations said. The talks are tentative and could collapse, these people said. An acquisition would follow moves by Microsoft and Google, which eBay finds itself in competition with on new technologies, to get into the Internet phone business. [C2.]

Move Over, Miller High Life Man
Beginning next week, Miller Brewing will retire the ''High Life Man'' campaign and usher in one that features in the ''Girl in the Moon'' character who has symbolized the High Life brand on packages, signs and ads since 1907. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

Ford Makes Some Executive Changes
Mark Fields, Ford's top European executive, will become the fourth person to lead the company's North American operations in as many years. He succeeds Greg C. Smith, who was named a vice chairman overseeing human resources, labor relations and other administrative offices. [C3.] Ford agreed to sell Hertz, the nation's largest rental car company, to a consortium of private investors including Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, the Carlyle Group and Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity, for about $15 billion in cash and debt. [C3.]

Former Sotheby's Chairman Cedes Control of Company
A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman of Sotheby's who had been convicted of leading a price-fixing scheme with its rival Christie's, sold his family's controlling interest in the auction house to the company for stock and $168 million in cash. [C3.]

Sony to Compete in the Portable Music Player Market
Sony said that it would sell advanced Walkman portable music players later this year, aiming to move out of Apple Computer's shadow in a market that Sony created a quarter century ago. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Ebay shares since July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); HURRICANES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESTATE TAX (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); GAS STATIONS (75%); GASOLINE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); ESTATE PLANNING (65%); HYBRID VEHICLES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); PRICE INCREASES (54%); SPORT FISHING (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RUTH'S HOSPITALITY GROUP INC (82%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (54%)

TICKER: RUTH (NASDAQ) (82%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005



197 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; About New York; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: In New Orleans, as It Did in New York, X Marks the Pain

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
A CRUDE symbol has surfaced in New Orleans to displace for now the fleur-de-lis, the crescent and the string of beads. It is a large X sprayed with neon-orange paint onto the emptied homes, the violated stores -- even the city buses that litter streets like giant discarded milk cartons.
 The fleur-de-lis reflects the enduring French influence on life here. The crescent symbolizes the bend in the nurturing Mississippi River. The beads evoke Mardi Gras, though these days they dangle from trees like gaudy nooses. And now, scrawled across all of that, a large X the color of Halloween: the post-catastrophe symbol used by search-and-rescue units to signal that the space inside has been checked for signs of life or the remains of death. 
 On Tuesday -- was it Tuesday? -- a task force from Texas, armed with guns and spray cans, decorated the Bywater section here with the macabre graffiti. At the top of the X, the date (9/6); to the left, the unit that conducted the search (TXTF); to the right, the number of hazards, structural and otherwise, within (0); and at the bottom, the number of dead (0). 
 The symbol has haunting resonance for those who walked the gray-powdered streets of Lower Manhattan in the first days after 9/11. Four years later nearly to the day, you notice that X on a deserted storefront on St. Claude Avenue here; you take comfort in seeing zeroes; and in a finger's snap you are back there on Vesey Street, or Liberty, or Church. What's more, the skies over southern Louisiana have been a baby blue the last few days, as they were over New York on that Tuesday morning.
 So many images here set off dormant memories. The National Guard encampment in Audubon Park recalls the National Guard encampment in Battery Park, where a thunderstorm one night had people imagining another attack. The whiff of rotting food in a market on St. Charles Avenue brings back the pungency of that dusty still-life display of food rotting in the Amish Market on Washington Street. The fear of contaminated water now; the fear of contaminated air then.
 A disturbing question comes too quickly to the mind. Which was worse: the attacks of Sept. 11 or the attack of Hurricane Katrina?
 The question reflects our strange desire to quantify disaster. Any time a jetliner crashes -- in Lockerbie, outside Pittsburgh, off the Moriches -- the news media rush to point out its standing in terms of the number killed, as though measuring its worthiness for some sorrowful hall of fame. Sometimes newspapers will even publish an accompanying graph: Five Deadliest Plane Crashes.
 From the acrid-smelling streets of this fresh horror, near the fourth anniversary of another horror -- still fresh in its own way -- such calculus seems fruitless, inappropriate and akin to comparing a wounded apple to an injured orange. They are distinct in their own awful ways.
 The hurricane was a natural disaster. The disaster of 9/11 was madman-made. The hurricane exploded across hundreds of miles, devastating cities, towns and obscure places that many people here barely knew of; Happy Jack, for one. The jetliners that became bombs on 9/11 devastated a corner of Manhattan, and brought down two of the most famous buildings in the world.
 On and on the distinctions go: 9/11's fire to the hurricane's water; people dying at work and people drowning at home; congregations mourning in places of worship and congregations mourning for places of worship that are now inaccessible, under water, destroyed.
 Rather than wasting energy and emotion on that awkward question of which is worse, those profoundly affected by 9/11 might consider what now forever binds the New Orleans of 2005 to other American cities: the Johnstown of 1889; the Galveston of 1900; the San Francisco of 1906; the Oklahoma City of 1995; the New York of 2001. 
 THE overwhelming loss of life, of course, and the crippling tolls to the economy, to the infrastructure, to the community's sense of self. But more than that: the denial of that basic, sacred need to claim and bury the dead. Four years have passed, and 1,152 of the 2,749 victims of 9/11 have not been identified. Two weeks have passed, and who knows how many bodies still bob in dark waters.
 Which is worse? Let the question go. 
 Just know that emergency telephone numbers and wrenching news updates trickle across the television screens here, just as they did then. That volunteers from across the country are here to help out, just as they did then. That people here vow to rebuild, just as we did then.
 One night four years ago, a city sanitation worker started sweeping the debris of chaos from Church Street. And one afternoon this week, a shopkeeper on deserted Royal Street did the same.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Symbols sprayed on a building on St. Claude Avenue in New Orleans indicate that a search team has checked the space inside for signs of life or the remains of death. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (86%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (86%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); HIJACKING (77%); GRAFFITI (77%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); HALLOWEEN (74%); WEATHER (74%); RETAILERS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); HURRICANES (63%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (63%); AIRLINES (60%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Rescues; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Terrorism; Floods

PERSON: Dan Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2005



198 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: The New Prize: Alternative Fuels

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
A week ago, Benjamin Kleber was spending $3.39 a gallon at a gasoline station in Maryland when he noticed an obscure decal on his minivan. 
 ''It's this sticker about the size of a business card that's stuck on the side of the gas flap that I never really paid attention to,'' said Mr. Kleber, a 25-year-old electrical engineer for a government contractor. The decal said he could be using E85, a fuel cocktail that consists mostly of grain alcohol, or corn-based ethanol, with a splash of gasoline.
Production of ethanol fuel, much of it blended in small doses with regular gasoline, has doubled to more than three billion gallons in the last half decade. This year, propelled by rising gasoline prices, E85 is finding new life as an alternative fuel. 
 It remains hard to find, to say the least, in part because many oil companies have no desire to put a competing product in stations that carry their banner. But the number of stations offering E85 has nearly doubled since January, to more than 460, mostly in corn-growing states like Minnesota. And because of incentives included in recently passed energy legislation, and the fact that E85 is now about 40 to 50 cents cheaper than a gallon of regular gasoline, E85 backers are expecting the surge to accelerate.
 Being an engineer, Mr. Kleber had heard of E85. And after spending $58 to fill his 1998 Plymouth Voyager with regular unleaded last Sunday -- ''staggering,'' he said -- he went home and began to do some research. He discovered that a station nearby sold the fuel for $2.67 a gallon. At current prices that could save him more than $14 a fillup. 
 So he decided he would switch to a fuel from the Midwest instead of the Mideast. 
 ''I think we go through fossil fuel like a kid in a candy store without any concern about what happens when it runs out,'' he said. 
 In a nation that has shrugged at conservation for two decades, the impact of Hurricane Katrina on gasoline prices has been a bracing reality check. All year long, as prices have ticked up, a movement has been afoot away from jumbo sport utility vehicles and toward more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 That said, it would take a radical change to wean the country off foreign oil. Still, more than ever before, the nation's roads are a moving laboratory with all manner of alternatives to gasoline combustion engines, often being driven by average Americans, if in small numbers. 
 There are cars powered by natural gas, by hydrogen fuel cells and by French fry grease. There are electric cars and hybrid electric cars that can be plugged into the power grid. 
 What separates E85 is that more than four million American cars and trucks have the ability to run on it right now, even though the majority of people who own these so-called flex-fuel vehicles are not even aware of the ability. Already, Brazil has turned to ethanol en masse, though the fuel there is derived from the more prevalent local crop, sugarcane. 
 Gregory J. Cobb recently replaced premium gasoline pumps at two of his five Indiana stations with E85. At one station near South Bend, he said, he was selling 24,000 gallons of E85 a month compared with the 1,700 gallons of premium gas he had been selling. 
 ''One of the customers drove about 30 miles to the station; she said: 'I'm putting my dad's corn in the car. I'd rather do that than pay OPEC,''' Mr. Cobb said. ''That's why we did it, too. If we're going to get diverse, away from dependency on foreign oil, we have to do this. And to be honest, our premium sales weren't doing much.''
 In Madison, Wis., Rebecca Bell and her husband, Kevin, started using E85 in the last couple of weeks to fuel their Ford Explorer and their Chevy minivan. They have also started carpooling with neighbors. 
 ''I feel better that it's coming from the United States,'' said Ms. Bell, 34, a vice president of a veterinary drug company and a mother of three. 
 ''If we continue to use foreign oil, we're always going to be in somebody's hip pocket.''
 Adrian Moses, a 55-year-old computer consultant in a suburb of St. Paul, said he had for several years used E85 to fuel his Ford Ranger pickup. ''I do it because it's the right thing, not because of economics,'' he said, adding that it was ''cleaner for the environment'' and ''made here in the Midwest, not in the Middle East.'' 
 Now, here are some of the catches. 
 For starters, it's hard to find the stuff. There are roughly 180,000 gasoline stations nationwide and fewer than 500 with E85. And ethanol can take us only so far. Huge tracts of farmland would have to be converted to corn production to provide enough fuel for significant portions of the American automobile fleet.
 A recent study published in the journal BioScience forecast that for all cars and trucks to run on ethanol by 2048, ''virtually the entire country, with the exception of cities, would be covered with corn plantations.'' Using more farmland to produce ethanol would also drive up food prices. And E85 cannot be transported through gasoline pipelines, because it sucks up grime and water. 
 E85 is also less energy-dense than gasoline, so a driver goes a bit less far on a gallon. Its current cost advantage is dependent on a 43-cents-a-gallon subsidy, versus a roughly 40-cent tax on a gallon of gasoline. Environmentalists have generally viewed the rise of flex-fuel vehicles as a boondoggle for automakers, because they are afforded fuel economy credits for making them. The credits have had the effect of driving up oil consumption. Many consumers who buy flex-fuel vehicles are not even made aware of the capability. 
 On the upside, ethanol is a domestic resource and most studies indicate that it reduces emissions of both smog-forming pollutants and global warming gases, the amount depending on how it is produced. An emerging process of creating ethanol from agricultural waste like cereal straw has the potential for far greater emissions reductions and more efficient land use.
 This so-called cellulose ethanol has much greater potential than current ethanol, said Michael Wang, a researcher at the Center for Transportation Research at the Argonne National Laboratory, but, he added, ''the technology has not arrived.'' 
 David Friedman, a senior analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group, said, ''ethanol has great potential to help the U.S. kick our oil habit, but that's 20 or 30 years away.''
 ''Corn ethanol can help in the short term, but it has serious limitations, and none of this is going to work if we don't dramatically improve the efficiency of our cars and trucks.''
 Certainly, ethanol has its friends, like corn growers, and its enemies. In July, Corn Cob Bob, an ethanol industry mascot, was banished from Canada Day celebrations in Ottawa. Shell, a sponsor of the festivities, had expressed discomfort at the mascot's participation. 
 ''Good old Corn Cob represents an industry association of ethanol producers, which includes some of our competitors in the retail fuel category,'' said Jan Rowley, a spokeswoman for Shell of Canada, adding that Shell had not intended to have Bob actually banned. Royal Dutch Shell has a stake in Iogen, a leader in developing cellulose ethanol. 
 The banning of Corn Cob Bob, who looks like a farmer with a corncob head, inspired a recent segment on the ''Daily Show'' on Comedy Central, culminating with the mock execution of the mascot by the comedian Rob Corddry. 
 ''This world was never going to treat Corn Cob Bob fairly,'' explained Mr. Corddry, as soft piano music trilled in the background. ''I wanted to show him a better place.''

Beyond Gasoline
 This is the first in a series of articles examining alternative technologies for powering cars.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Adrian Moses, 55, fuels his truck with E85 at an Eagan, Minn., station. To the right is Corn Cob Bob. (Photo by Allen Brisson-Smith for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The number of stations offering E85 has nearly doubled since January, to more than 460. (Photo by Allen Brisson-Smith for The New York Times)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Using Less Gas, or None at All''Some alternatives to gasoline.E85WHAT IS IT?Blend of corn-based ethanol (grain alcohol) and 15 percent gas. Roughly 4.5 million vehicles on the road can use it instead of gas.PROSComes from the Midwest, not the Mideast.Cheaper at the moment by 40 to 50 cents a gallon.Lower emissions, most studies show.CONSBroad use would mean turning over swaths of farmland to corn production.Could drive up food prices.Cheaper because of subsidies.NATURAL GASWHAT IS IT?The same gas used to heat the home used to fuel the car. Honda and G.M. make vehicles modified to run on it.PROSLower emissions.People with natural gas heat can refuel at home.CONSPrices are rising.Might not help energy security much.HYDROGEN FUEL CELLWHAT IS IT?Vehicles combine hydrogen with oxygen from the air to set off a chemical reaction and generate electricity.PROSOnly tailpipe emission is water vapor.Alternative to Mideast oil.CONSSubstantial technical and cost hurdles.Infrastructure hurdles -- retrofitting gas stations to carry hydrogen.Various ways of producing the hydrogen have environmental and infrastructure ramifications.ELECTRICWHAT IS IT?Vehicle powered by batteries. Automakers built thousands but have largely abandoned the technology.PROSNo tailpipe emissions.Another domestic alternative to oil.Overnight charging beneficial for utilities.CONSVarious ways of producing the electricity have environmental and infrastructure issues.Limited range between charges.Charging can take several hours.BIODIESELWHAT IS IT?Ranges from vehicles running on French fry grease to vehicles using diesel fuel created from soybeans or vegetable oils. Hobbyists retrofit vehicles to run on used vegetable oil
 normal diesel vehicles can use biodiesel blends.PROSCan reduce global warming pollution.Domestic resource.CONSCould worsen or improve smog pollution, depending on several factors.Cost hurdles.Currently limited availability.PLUG-IN HYBRIDWHAT IS IT?Hybrid electric vehicles that can be plugged in to the grid. Just a handful on the road, though enthusiasts are beginning to modify Toyota Priuses to plug in.PROSRuns a lot farther on battery.More use of domestic energy than regular hybrid.Lower emissions.CONSCurrent battery technology might not be durable enough, though there is debate.Added cost.Lack of enthusiasm from hybrid makers. (pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ETHANOL (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); MINIVANS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (76%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (66%); HURRICANES (65%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (56%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Surveys and Series; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%) MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2005



199 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Beliefs; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: The scarcely heard question is how God could have allowed the catastrophe to occur.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
How could God have allowed this to happen? Four years ago, after 9/11, many people were asking that question. They were asking it again after the Indian Ocean tsunami last December. They are not asking it after Hurricane Katrina. 
 No, take that back. Many individuals, driven from homes, separated from family members and bereft of means of support, are surely anguishing over that question, as Job did on his dung heap. But as a question tormenting the public conscience rather than private individuals, it is scarcely heard. 
The reasons are not difficult to fathom. Writing in The New York Times on Thursday about theodicy -- the effort to reconcile the existence of an all-powerful benevolent God with the occurrence of horrific evils -- Edward Rothstein described the tendency born in the 18th-century Enlightenment to dismiss God as an actor in catastrophes and focus instead on human responsibilities. 
 That reflex did show itself, of course, in the cases of the Twin Towers attack and the tsunami. Could the attack have been foreseen, the terrorists stopped, the buildings made more heat resistant and the rescuers warned? 
 Could the shore dwellers imperiled by the tsunami from Indonesia to Sri Lanka have been alerted? 
 Such questions were thrashed through, some at great length and in great detail. But they never eclipsed the question of God's presence or absence in these events, as has occurred after Katrina and the flooding of New Orleans. 
 As Adam B. Kushner, who hails from New Orleans, writes in the latest issue of The New Republic, his hometown ''met its demise by an act of man, not an act of God.'' The man-made dimensions of this catastrophe have wholly overshadowed the natural ones. 
 Those dimensions have been thoroughly catalogued, from the very building and expansion of a water-girdled city well below sea level to the longstanding complacency about the consequent potential for disaster; from the sluggish and clumsy response of government authorities to the immediate crisis to the stark economic disparities and want of material resources, so largely aligned with racial differences, that have deepened the suffering incumbent on widespread dislocations. 
 All the rescue and relief efforts have been immensely complicated by the breakdown of manmade networks -- of electricity, transportation, drinkable water, sewage disposal, food and medicine distribution, telephone service and gasoline supplies. 
 How can God be implicated when these elaborately contrived human systems prove fragile? 
 In theological terms, of course, this only pushes the issue back one notch. 
 For believers, humanity, with all its faults and contrivances, is no less God's creation than hurricanes and ocean surges and the law that water seeks its own level. 
 So one might logically step back from asking how God could allow the brimming, turbulent Lake Pontchartrain to break the levees to asking how God could allow self-interested or shortsighted politicians to put off reinforcing the levees or allow enterprising engineers and developers to decrease the capacity of the environment to buffer storms.
 How could God allow the negligence, racism, indifference or hard-heartedness that long gnawed at the social fabric of New Orleans -- or the blindness or incompetence of officials who should have understood the brewing human storm, as well the meteorological one?
 That such questions about divine providence have been so little pressed in this way testifies to a tremendous modern -- and American -- belief in human freedom and responsibility. On the Gulf Coast, humans fell short, not God; humans and human institutions should be called to account, not God. 
 Certainly, such calls to accountability are morally preferable to simply blaming the heavens. But at what point does this practical-minded shying away from examining further the ultimate sources of evil and injury also testify to the culture's resistance to genuine self-scrutiny? 
 Those Americans, for example, who oppose the Iraq war and the White House insistence on tax cuts for the highest income brackets are finding it easy to bolster their accusations of administration ideology, arrogance and incompetence by citing what they judge to be parallel failures in the federal response to the hurricane. 
 This is a political indictment that cannot, and undoubtedly will not, be ignored. But whatever one makes of that case, didn't the broken levees and broken evacuees also reveal to daylight far more than could be laid to the account of a single administration or even a single layer of government or even government altogether? 
 There is an American can-do spirit, admirable in many respects, that brushes aside complexity and tragedy for ''moving on'' and ''getting the job done.'' President Bush sounded that note after flying over New Orleans on Aug. 31.
 ''Right now,'' he said, ''the days seem awfully dark for those affected. I understand that. But I'm confident that with time you can get your life back in order, new communities will flourish, the great city of New Orleans will be back on its feet, and America will be a stronger place for it.'' If the president's remarks fell flat, which even supporters acknowledged, it was in part because his words did not admit (as maybe American politics does not allow anyone to admit) that many lives would not get back in order, that many communities would not flourish again and that, whatever the outcome for America as a whole, many individual Americans would not be made stronger by these events, but irrecoverably shattered. 
 Outstanding American religious thinkers have seen a strong link between this chipper avoidance of the tragic and what they consider an overweening confidence in the power of American technology, energy and organization to solve every sort of problem. Would they find it a stretch to suggest a further link between what has worried them and the national impulse to skate quickly over all the wrenching questions that natural and human evils raise about God and the universe?
 There may be no final, fully satisfactory answers to questions like how God could allow 9/11 or the tsunami to happen or, in Katrina's case, allow officialdom and decades of neglect to allow it to happen. Is asking these questions a waste of time, therefore, and diversion of intellect? 
 For Congressional committees, yes. But for others, delving into such mysteries might at least lead to a more profound understanding of the human condition and the untidiness of reality generally. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RELIGION (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); WEATHER (77%); TERRORISM (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (66%); LAKES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SRI LANKA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2005



200 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; How to Rebuild New Orleans; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Restore the Marsh

BYLINE: By Craig E. Colten. 
Craig E. Colten, a professor of geography at Louisiana State University, is the author of ''An Unnatural Metropolis: Wresting New Orleans from Nature.''

DATELINE: Baton Rouge, La. 

 BODY:
THE federal government plans to invest more than $50 billion in reconstructing New Orleans and nearby communities. Those funds are welcome. To let New Orleans sink into the gulf would be a tragedy for its residents and for those beguiled by this quirky city on the delta. But to rebuild New Orleans as it was on Aug. 29 would deal a cruel injustice to those who suffered the most in recent days. The question we need to ask is not only how we can restore New Orleans, but also how we can make it safe. 
 New Orleans has faced flood risks for nearly 300 years, and it always will. Those who rebuild the city should try to work with nature rather than seek to overwhelm it with structural solutions. The lowest-lying parts of the city where the waters stood deepest should be restored to the wetlands they were before 1700, absorbing Lake Ponchartrain's overflow and protecting the rest of the city.
There's a great precedent for preserving wetlands in New Orleans. When plans for a major suburban development in eastern New Orleans fell through in the mid-1980's, investors, environmentalists and government officials cooperated on a deal that kept more than 20,000 acres as wetlands that now serve as a wildlife refuge. Without these wetlands, the storm damage to the city's east side would have been even more severe.
 Planners should not be afraid to encourage residents of hard-hit neighborhoods to migrate to safer areas. Modest incentives for those with inundated homes to move now may help avoid the larger costs of rescue and reconstruction when the next flood comes. Despite deep roots in their neighborhoods, generations of New Orleans residents have voluntarily climbed to higher ground as soon as they could afford to do so, including many children and grandchildren of Irish and Italian immigrants over the last century and a half. And environmental peril can loosen the powerful bonds people feel to place. Long before Hurricane Katrina, occupants of the Agriculture Street neighborhood asked for support for a wholesale exodus because a remediated Superfund site sat on the edge of their district.
 That doesn't mean that all the flooded communities must be abandoned. If history is any guide, we will probably be able to salvage a good part of New Orleans's uniquely appealing architecture. For example, the Bywater district, where many houses were stunningly restored in the decades after a flood in 1965, was inundated on Monday, but most porches remained above the water. This indicates that the district is elevated enough to make rebuilding worthwhile. The same will be true in other parts of New Orleans as well. 
 Although New Orleans has endured many floods, never has there been so much pressure to recover at the speed of a hurricane. If the reconstruction proceeds not just quickly but well, it will allow the low areas to serve as wetlands; it will restore the coast; and it will preserve the city's architectural heritage without asking the poor and infirm to return to the city's most dangerous ground. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WETLANDS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); HURRICANES (77%); WEATHER (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); SUBURBS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); WILDLIFE (69%); SUPERFUND (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2005

 
