

1 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 279 words

 BODY:

PRESIDENTIAL HONORS -- Markets are closed Monday for the New Year's holiday, and most will remain closed Tuesday for the national day of mourning for former President Gerald R. Ford. The bond markets will be open only until 2 p.m. Mr. Ford's funeral will be held Tuesday, and he will be buried Wednesday in his hometown, Grand Rapids, Mich. 


RETAIL SNAPSHOT -- Last month brought ample news of consumer demand for video game players, flat-screen televisions and Elmo T.M.X. dolls, but retailers have yet to announce how bountiful the holiday season was for them. That uncertainty will be resolved when many big retail chains report their sales results for December (Thursday).

PLENTY OF NUMBERS -- Although the shortened trading week may lead to low transaction volumes, there will be a good amount of economic data for the markets to digest. The Labor Department will release its unemployment report for December (Friday), with the rate expected to remain at 4.5 percent. Automakers will report December vehicle sales (Wednesday). Other reports: November construction spending and the Institute for Supply Management report on manufacturing for December (Wednesday), and November factory orders and the I.S.M. report on services for December (Thursday).

FED WATCH -- The Federal Reserve will release minutes from its Dec. 12 Federal Open Market Committee meeting, which will be examined for hints about where it thinks inflation is going (Wednesday). And Ben S. Bernanke (above), chairman of the Federal Reserve, will speak on central banking and bank supervision at a luncheon in Chicago sponsored by the American Economic Association and the American Finance Association (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); BONDS (77%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (68%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



2 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: The Sleepy Subject of Canada's Grain Exports Perks Up

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
The business of grain marketing has not been its usual sleepy self lately in Western Canada. 
 Plans by the government to strip the Canadian Wheat Board of its monopoly control over most of the country's wheat and barley exports have provoked a fight that is pitting farmer against farmer and the agency against the government.
 The wheat board, founded 75 years ago as part of a wave of cooperative ventures for improving farmers' lives, is now one of the world's largest grain traders, with annual sales of $4 billion to $6 billion. 
 The board is, in many respects, among the last of the cooperative projects that remains true to its original goals. But those goals now have little in common with the open market philosophy of the minority Conservative government that came to power just under a year ago. 
 Shortly before Christmas, that clash resulted in an unusual cabinet order to fire the wheat board's president, Adrian Measner.
 The fate of the board will be eagerly awaited in the United States, where farm groups have unsuccessfully challenged the Canadian board's monopoly. Among the companies likely to move into Canada's export market, if it is opened, are commercial grain traders like Cargill of Minneapolis and Archer Daniels Midland of Decatur, Ill.
 ''There is absolutely no doubt that part of the reason the Conservative government is pushing as hard as it is pushing is, I suspect, that they are feeling pressure from the Americans,'' said Murray Fulton, an agriculture economist who directs a center for the study of cooperatives at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon.
 The wheat board concept is simple. In exchange for its monopoly over wheat destined for export from Canada's three prairie provinces, as well as a small part of British Columbia, it pays every farmer the same average sale price. Overall, Professor Fulton said, price averaging has provided most farmers with greater stability and higher prices than they would have obtained in an open market. 
 A study commissioned by the wheat board on barley prices released in December gives more specifics. The report, by Richard S. Gray of the University of Saskatchewan, Andrew Schmitz of the University of Florida and Troy G. Schmitz at Arizona State University, concluded that farmers' barley revenue from the wheat board was 59 million Canadian dollars higher from 1995 to 2004 than it would have been in an open market system.
 Wheat board supporters argue that the board also helps farmers by negotiating terms with railways and ports.
 The system seems to have supporters on the buyers' side as well. It provides a more uniform grading of grains than is available in the United States, for instance. 
 But averaging prices has a significant drawback for some farmers. By definition, an average price is often lower than what individual farmers who live near the United States border could obtain by directly trucking their harvest south. The province of Alberta, home to Prime Minister Stephen Harper, has long opposed the board for that reason, among others.
 Chuck Strahl, the minister of agriculture, has repeatedly said that all he wants is to give farmers the choice of pooling their risk through the wheat board or going out on their own.
 ''We are trying to get more marketing choice for farmers,'' he told the House of Commons in December. ''We want to put more money in their pockets. We want them to take advantage of their own expertise.''
 Professor Fulton argued in a separate study published last month that the wheat board cannot survive in an open market. Indeed, its history before it was granted a monopoly supports that idea. The operation floundered as farmers chose the open market when prices were high, returning to the board only during hard times.
 Mr. Strahl has not found it easy to end the board's monopoly. A 1998 law gave farmers control of the board by letting them directly elect 10 of its 15 directors, with the balance, including the president, being appointed by the government. 
 (Because the government guarantees the board's finances, however, it retained the power to issue cabinet orders.) 
 The Conservatives, in the minority, have been unable to get any of the other parties to support changes in the wheat board. An attempt earlier this year to amend the board's legislation was resoundingly defeated by opposition parties.
 And when five wheat board positions came up for election this fall, the government heavily promoted candidates who backed its plan. Farmers, however, responded by electing four candidates who favor the current monopoly.
 Now Mr. Strahl plans a vote on creating an open barley market early in 2007. But he has also made it clear that the government will not be bound by its results.
 The level of support for the government's open market plan is unclear. Even Mr. Strahl said during recent committee testimony: ''I think I've had 4,500 letters on wheat board issues since I've been in office. They are almost equally divided.''
 Mr. Measner, a 34-year veteran of the wheat board, had become something of a minor celebrity by rebuffing orders from Mr. Strahl and his staff to stop promoting the monopoly system and start backing the government's plan. 
 Before his dismissal on Dec. 22, Mr. Measner began a court challenge of a cabinet order requiring the board to support the government, arguing that it is unconstitutional and outside the government's power over the board.
 ''The government has a direction they're taking the wheat board, and it doesn't matter what people say or what people want,'' Mr. Measner said in an interview from his home after his firing. ''My position is that it should be farmers making the decision.''
 Ken Ritter, a farmer from Saskatchewan who is the board's chairman, said the legal challenge of the government's orders will continue as will the board's campaign to keep the current system.
 ''This is very, very divisive,'' Mr. Ritter said. ''This has gone on for 40 years.''
 Professor Fulton said that by firing Mr. Measner and attempting to gag the board, the government runs the danger of alienating even some of the farmers who back its open market position.
 ''The view seems to be shifting,'' Professor Fulton said. ''Even farmers who might support a change in the wheat board are saying, why do it this way?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andy Baker, a Manitoba farmer, presented Adrian Measner, left, chief of the Canadian Wheat Board, in mid-December with a shovel to use on anyone trying to shut the wheat board. Mr. Measner was later fired. (Photo by Mike Aporius/Winnipeg Free Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); MONOPOLIZATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); POLITICS (69%); CHRISTMAS (68%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Grain; International Trade and World Market; Farmers; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Politics and Government; Grain

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Candian Wheat Board

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (91%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (91%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (91%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (91%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (91%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (91%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (91%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (93%); MANITOBA, CANADA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



3 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Development, Cleared for Takeoff

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
City, state and federal agencies granted final approvals last month to a half-dozen wide-ranging projects in a political aligning of the stars that will promote New York City's most ambitious economic development agenda in decades.
 Approval or financing was given to a Second Avenue subway; an extension of the Flushing Line to the Far West Side; a spur to connect the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal; financing for tens of thousands of apartments for low- and moderate-income residents; the Atlantic Yards complex near Downtown Brooklyn, which includes a new home for the basketball Nets; and even the bus-stop shelters and public toilets that New Yorkers and visitors have demanded for years. 
Some of the approvals were prompted by legal deadlines and last-minute efforts by departing Pataki administration officials -- including Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation; Peter S. Kalikow, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority; and the governor himself -- to stake out their legacy. 
 But two more enduring forces also converged: the beginning of the last 1,000 days of the Bloomberg administration, and a climate that some urban planners suggest signals at least a lull in the nearly half-century backlash against the bulldozer diplomacy of Robert Moses. 
 ''It's a pretty amazing list,'' said Robert D. Yaro, the president of the Regional Plan Association, a group that studies transportation and development issues. ''It's the Bloomberg administration pushing hard. There's a pro-growth, long-range theme behind all this.''
 Kenneth T. Jackson, the Columbia University urban historian, said that Mr. Bloomberg's speech in December outlining the challenges posed by a growing population ''signaled that New York had to fight for its place at the table, that real estate and commercial rents and housing prices are getting out of hand. The only way the city can prosper is to make that more reasonable and the only way to do that is to increase the supply.
 ''I think they're beginning to move,'' Professor Jackson said.
 In the months ahead, the Bloomberg administration's development agenda includes rezoning in Harlem as well as in Jamaica and Willets Point in Queens. The administration also wants to make another effort to gain approval for the transformation of the James A. Farley general post office building in Midtown Manhattan into a commuter rail hub called Moynihan Station -- one proposal that appears to be in political limbo. 
 ''After 9/11, a spirit of cooperation -- not perfect -- prevailed that enabled people to aim farther than they had in decades,'' said Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, who was instrumental in winning many of the approvals. ''The mayor really encouraged that kind of thinking -- repositioning New York City's economy to compete with other cities in the 21st century.''
 Several of the approved projects still face court challenges. Some others are bound to raise concerns over displacement and congestion. And the promise of a Second Avenue subway has been dangled before skeptical New Yorkers for nearly 80 years. But even if some projects are delayed, the others would change the city's face and, arguably, help fend off competition from New Jersey and from other world capitals. 
 ''I think you probably would have to go back to the late 1930s to see anything like that,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''I don't think any mayor has had an agenda like this, not since La Guardia.''
 On Dec. 6, the city sold $2 billion in bonds to extend the No. 7 subway line 1.1 miles west and then south from Times Square to 11th Avenue and 34th Street to help transform the largely fallow Far West Side. 
 On Dec. 18, the federal government agreed to grant $2.6 billion to link Long Island Rail Road commuters directly to the East Side of Manhattan and $693 million for the Second Avenue subway from 96th to 63rd Streets.
 On Dec. 19, Mr. Pataki presided over the installation of the first two huge steel columns to mark the perimeter of the Freedom Tower at the World Trade Center site. 
 The same day, Mr. Bloomberg announced the installation of the first 24 of 3,300 bus-stop shelters by a company that will also replace 330 newsstands and install and operate 20 public toilets. The ''street furniture'' will help pay for the city's tourism campaign.
 On Dec. 20, the City Council, in a compromise supported by the mayor, voted to overhaul a tax break to induce developers to build tens of thousands of apartments for New Yorkers making less than 80 percent of the median household income, or $56,720 for a family of four. 
 That day, a state oversight board gave final approval to the $4 billion Atlantic Yards project, a mostly residential complex with a basketball arena, offices and retail space near Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues.
 In addition, new stadiums are being built for the Yankees and the Mets. 
 Brad Lander, the director of the Pratt Center for Community Development, a planning group, said: ''My guess is, we are only just now settling into the general sense that the city's growth and development are long-term trends, not a short-time, business-cycle flash.'' 
 Dick Dadey, the executive director of Citizens Union, said that the city, bolstered by a robust economy, was trying to meet pent-up demand. 
 ''Say what you want about the scope and size of development,'' he added, ''the projects that are being approved are more sensitive to the current communities and neighborhoods or to creating new ones -- like the new Downtown Brooklyn -- than Moses ever was.''
 Moreover, Mr. Dadey said, ''the community boards no longer have the sway they once did over stopping local projects,'' and some local groups are even supporting development -- ''trying to encourage it responsibly in ways that benefit a greater number of people.'' 
 In ''The Power Broker,'' Robert A. Caro in 1974 wrote that without the approval of Robert Moses, who oversaw virtually all public works in New York until he was eased out in 1968, the city was ''utterly unable'' to build anything. 
 Mr. Caro said in an interview that he, too, was struck by the plethora of projects approved in December.
 ''Does this alignment of stars show that this is may be a problem that democracy can solve?'' he said. ''For the first time in 40 years, I'm hopeful.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); HISTORY (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: Sam Roberts; Robert (1888-1981) Moses

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



4 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Late Pataki Appointments 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki made several last-minute appointments to state posts before leaving office, including the naming of his longtime chief of staff, John Cahill, to the State Commission of Investigation. Mr. Cahill was named to the $101,900-a-year job on Friday, Mr. Pataki's spokesman, Michael Marr, said yesterday. Mr. Pataki's third term as governor ended last night. He is exploring a run for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination. Other appointments announced were those of Michael Elmendorf and Michael Greasan to the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board, at salaries of $90,800 each, Mr. Marr said. Appointed to unpaid jobs were Michael Fragin to the Long Island Power Authority; Louis P. Ciminelli to the Niagara River Greenway Commission; and Harrison LeFrak, Mark Broxmeyer, David M. Catalfamo, Nancy Holwell, Peter Johnson Jr. and Mary Newman to the United Nations Development Corporation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Governors (US)

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%)

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



5 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Overall Crime in New York Fell 5 Percent in 2006, but Homicides Increased

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY; Trymaine Lee contributing reporting.

 BODY:
In New York City, rapes, robberies and assaults, among other crimes, continued to decline last year, prompting the Police Department's top official to herald 2006 as a very good year. Homicides, however, climbed 10 percent in the city, reversing a much-hailed decrease.
 ''We'd like to see no homicides. The reality is we're going to have them,'' said Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly. ''I think this is a very good year.'' 
He called the increase in killings in 2006 all but negligible compared with 1990, a year with one of the highest homicide rates in recent history. That year, crack-fueled violence soared, and 2,262 people were killed.
 Last year there were 579 killings citywide as of Dec. 24, an increase of 52 homicides over the same period in 2005. Yet overall crime last year was down 5 percent. The number of reported rapes declined by 7.4 percent to 1,486, subway crime plunged 13 percent and auto theft fell 11.4 percent. 
 The police said the year's jump in homicides was rooted largely in an unusually high number of ''reclassified'' deaths, deaths linked to injuries incurred in months or years past. There were 38 reclassified homicides in New York last year, compared with 21 in 2005.
 New York's overall fall in crime also contrasts with an increase nationwide. According to a report by the F.B.I., violent crime across the country rose 3.7 percent during the first half of the year. Dallas remained the country's most violent city, with 3,985 crimes per 100,000 people, according to the midyear report, while New York ranked 10th with 1,1,87 per 100,000. 
 Myriad factors account for New York's continuing decline in crime overall, the police and criminologists say. They cited more effective policing, shifting drug patterns and the lowest unemployment rate in 30 years. 
 Yet what is puzzling, one expert said, is that overall crime is dropping even as New York becomes an increasingly polarized city, with haves and have-nots often living side by side in luxury condominiums and public housing.
 ''Within a few blocks, people are living worlds apart,'' said Andrew Karmen, a sociology professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and the author of ''New York Murder Mystery: The True Story Behind the Crime Crash of the 1990s.''
 ''In theory, that should make the poor more dissatisfied and drive people to commit crimes,'' he said. ''But that doesn't seem to be happening in New York.''
 One possible explanation, Dr. Karmen said, is that the city is largely populated by immigrants, many of whom are driven by a determination to succeed. 
 ''I think they still maintain a positive outlook and faith in the American dream,'' he said. ''But if it doesn't deliver, attitudes could change.'' 
 It has proven difficult to root out violent crime in the city's toughest corners. 
 One of the city's most perilous neighborhoods is in the 75th Precinct in Brooklyn, which includes East New York. There the number of slayings last year was virtually unchanged from 2005 at 28, and 3,239 crimes were reported. 
 Public housing projects have a disproportionate number of crimes. While 5 percent of New York's eight million residents live in public housing, Commissioner Kelly said, 16 percent of the city's homicides take place there. 
 The Police Department plans to tackle that seemingly intractable problem by redeploying personnel from other areas and opening police substations in the most troubled housing complexes, Commissioner Kelly said.
 Both homicide victims and suspects tend to have links to crime already, he said. 
 Of those arrested last year in homicides, 95 percent had criminal histories; 75 percent of the people killed did. 
 Such figures point to the department's need to continue expanding its homicide, shooting and crime databases, Mr. Kelly said. 
 ''The more information we have, the greater the potential we have to prevent crimes,'' he said. 
 New York's rebirth as a safer-than-average large city since the 1990s has coincided with an increase in tourism here. 
 According to city officials, about 44 million people visited last year on business or pleasure. 
 ''One overarching reason why people are coming here, in a city that was attacked five years ago, it's because they have a sense of comfort as far as security is concerned,'' Mr. Kelly said.
 The department is continuing to pour more resources into community policing, forging bonds between its officials and local leaders, especially those from new immigrant communities. 
 Yet in neighborhoods where homicide rates climbed, residents seem divided about whether this recent and heightened focus was improving their lives.
 Allah B, the director of the Allah in Mecca Youth Center in Harlem, commended officers in its precinct, the 28th, for holding local forums and listening to community concerns. 
 Even though slayings in the precinct more than doubled, to 11, last year, he said the increased connection between residents and the police fostered a greater sense of ease. 
 Yet a longtime resident of the St. Nicholas Homes in Harlem said police efforts to rout out criminals were having a divisive effect in her neighborhood. 
 ''They caused a lot of trouble trying to play one person against the other,'' said the woman, who would give only her first name, Keisha. She said people in the neighborhood also felt harassed and persecuted by the police, and that such impressions heightened the tension and stress in the community. 
 Still, despite a slight increase in the number of homicides in her neighborhood, she said the streets felt far less violent than in previous years.
 The sense that New Yorkers are increasingly inhabiting two different realities seems particularly strong in places like Fort Greene, Brooklyn, home to a thriving cafe scene and crime-plagued public housing complexes. 
 Eleven homicides were recorded in the neighborhood last year, compared with none in 2005. 
 Strolling along a stretch of DeKalb Avenue by Fort Greene Park late last week, Cheryl Pickett, 36, said she had no idea that murders had risen so sharply in the area. 
 Ms. Pickett, who has lived in Fort Greene for five years, said her perception of the neighborhood had not changed. She still thinks of it as a safe, child-friendly place with charming shops and bars. 
 ''When things happen, it's really surprising,'' Ms. Pickett said. ''This year seems no different than last.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); ROBBERY (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MURDER (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (60%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (60%); WRITERS (60%); PUBLIC HOUSING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Crime and Criminals; Sex Crimes; Subways; Transit Systems; Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: Cara Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



6 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: In Los Angeles, Trying to Atone For Water Sins

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: INDEPENDENCE, Calif. 

 BODY:
It may fall short of a feel-good sequel to ''Chinatown,'' the movie based on the notorious, somewhat shady water grab by Los Angeles that allowed the city to bloom from a semi-arid desert.
 But in one of the largest river restoration efforts in the West, water is again flowing along a 62-mile stretch of the Owens River after a dry spell of nearly a century.
That part of the river had been left mostly drained when upstream water, fed by snowmelt from the towering Sierra Nevada, was channeled 233 miles south to fill swimming pools and bathtubs throughout Los Angeles.
 The restored flow is among several long-awaited steps the city is taking to help make amends for the environmental consequences of its water maneuvering, most notably the drying up of Owens Lake, an area more than three times the size of Manhattan, here in the Owens Valley. 
 Los Angeles agreed in December to expand efforts to control toxic dust storms that erupt from what is left of the lake, a 110-square-mile body that emptied when the river was diverted to Los Angeles through an aqueduct opened in 1913.
 The lake's salty, mineral-laced basin has been the largest single source of particulate pollution in the country. It looks so otherworldly that it doubled as a desolate planet in the movie ''Star Trek V: The Final Frontier.''
 To restore the river, Los Angeles built automated gates at the point where the river veers into the aqueduct. The gates steer some water into the original riverbed, setting the stage for the growth of cottonwood trees and other plants and the return of waterfowl and other animals.
 Much of the water eventually returns to the aqueduct, though some of it is being used for lake irrigation and other projects.
 Environmentalists here say they are keeping an eye on Los Angeles for backsliding, but they acknowledge that the new efforts will make a significant difference.
 As winds whipped across Owens Lake on a recent afternoon, Mike Prather of the Owens Valley Committee, which along with the Sierra Club took Los Angeles to court over the environmental fallout of its water policies, marveled at sandpipers, American avocets and other birds frolicking in the shallow pools created by the irrigation.
 ''This work will bring back more and more of them,'' Mr. Prather said, savoring the twist in the battle that means water once intended for Los Angeles will feed the lake.
 ''It's Owens Valley's turn to stick its straw in L.A.'s water,'' he said.
 Court rulings and the threat of legal action have largely forced Los Angeles's hand in dealing with its past water moves, but city leaders say they are also intent on doing the right thing in keeping up a vital source of water while avoiding further damage to the Owens Valley.
 H. David Nahai, president of the board that oversees the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, said Los Angeles was looking for less adversarial ways to resolve differences over the valley, which provides 40 percent to 60 percent of the city's water supply, depending on the snowfall in the mountains.
 ''We can't change the past, but we can shape the future,'' said Mr. Nahai, one of five board members appointed by Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa, who promised a friendlier approach to the valley when he took office in July 2005.
 Susan Cash, the chairwoman of the Board of Supervisors of Inyo County, where the Owens Valley is located, said animosity toward Los Angeles had lessened since the early 20th century, when the water diversion was made possible by the purchase of much of the valley by less-than-forthcoming city operatives.
 The underhanded moves, as chronicled by historians, included city representatives posing as ranchers as they bought up property. The questionable land dealing provided the inspiration for ''Chinatown,'' the 1974 movie starring Jack Nicholson as a private detective who stumbles across corruption on a Los Angeles water project.
 Water from the valley made possible the growth of what became the nation's second-largest city. But people in the valley have long regarded the water dealings as a double-edged sword. 
 Officials here have argued that the water diversion undercut the potential for growth. But others say that such prospects were dim anyway in such a dry and remote valley, and that Los Angeles's keeping the water clean and the land relatively untouched has been a boon.
 Los Angeles's policy of allowing public access to much of its land and the fact that many people here have worked for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, one of the valley's largest employers, or have friends or relatives there, have contributed to improved relations. The godfathers of Ms. Cash's children worked for the department.
 ''The fact is,'' she said, ''we are in a marriage with no annulment in the near future, so we have to find a way to work together.'' 
 Inyo officials said the city's projects could inspire more tourism, the only real economic activity in this dry, high-desert valley. 
 ''We have recreational users now but not to the extent it can be once the river is flowing and there is sufficient water for fish and wildlife,'' said Arlene Grider, president of the chamber of commerce here.
 The long-promised river restoration is a $24 million project, compensation won from a lawsuit by environmental groups over excessive groundwater pumping. It came after delays that prompted a county judge in September 2005 to impose daily fines of $5,000 on Los Angeles. The penalty has so far cost the city $2.3 million and will continue until a large volume of water flows through the river in the coming months.
 The work on the lake, scheduled to be completed by 2010, will irrigate or otherwise control dust over 43 square miles.
 The improvements result from an agreement the city signed with the local air pollution control regulator in 1998 that sets a timetable to comply with federal requirements to control dust on the lake. The city has spent $400 million on dust control for just under 30 square miles of the worst pockets, and in December, through a mediator, it agreed to do 12.7 more square miles by 2010 at a cost of $105 million.
 A water department spokeswoman in Los Angeles, Carol Tucker, said ratepayers would see relatively modest increases in their monthly bills; the river restoration, for example, would amount to an increase of about 26 cents. Los Angeles has one of the country's more intensive conservation programs, allowing it to use roughly the same amount of water even as it has grown by 750,000 residents in the past two decades. 
 But environmentalists say they doubt the city can grow much more without finding more water. 
 Mr. Nahai said the Department of Water and Power was already studying other possibilities, like using groundwater from within Los Angeles, buying water from other places and desalinating ocean water.
 But one thing is certain, he said: ''Are we going to get to a place where we are going to pump all the water out? No.'' 
 Still, most everyone suggests there could be rough going ahead. Ms. Cash, the Inyo County supervisor, said officials were only ''cautiously optimistic'' about a changed relationship with Los Angeles because they had heard nice words from the city before, only to end up in court.
 Mr. Nahai acknowledged that the litigious nature of the relationship would be difficult to break.
 ''Nobody can guarantee there won't be litigation in the future, and litigation has its uses,'' he said. ''There is no denying what the City of Los Angeles has done far too often has been because of court order.''
 He added, ''It's like what Mark Twain said: 'Whiskey is for drinking, and water is for fighting over.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: As part of a project to restore water to the Owens Valley, a dam redirects water going to Los Angeles, causing it to flow into the Owens River.
 Mike Prather, an environmental advocate, walked a dry part of Owens Lake, which emptied when the Owens River was diverted to Los Angeles. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A16) Map of California highlighting Owens Valley: Water is flowing in a stretch of the Owens River after a long dry spell. (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); LAKES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); SWIMMING (75%); SPORTS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); BIRDS (68%); PARTICULATE MATTER (67%); AIR POLLUTION (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%) Water; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Water

PERSON: Randal C Archibold

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Los Angeles (Calif); Owens River (Calif); Sierra Nevada Mountains (Calif); Owens Lake (Calif); California

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



7 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin City's Revival of Downtown Has a Downside

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: MADISON, Wis. 

 BODY:
This college town received what it wanted when, during the 1980s and 90s, it sought to reverse the decline of its downtown and to create a more vibrant civic center that would draw people at night and on weekends. 
 Since then, thousands of young professionals, retirees and former suburbanites have moved to glistening condominium buildings in the shadow of the state Capitol's dome and only a few blocks from the University of Wisconsin's main campus. And there is hardly a bad night for business near State Street, where university students and tourists pack restaurants and bars to capacity even on freezing weeknights.
But as downtown's population and revelry have grown, so have overcrowding on the streets, vandalism and, most significantly, the police say, alcohol-related crime. Mayor Dave Cieslewicz and other officials find themselves grappling with a problem that is a direct result of Madison's successful transformation: how to tone down downtown.
 As an urban issue, the downsizing of downtowns has little precedent because many cities, particularly in the Midwest, are struggling mightily to bring people back to their cores, not send them away. 
 Of course, many college towns deal with problems related to drinking. In the Midwest alone, La Crosse, Wis., and East Lansing and Ann Arbor, Mich., are struggling with how to cope with the public mayhem often fueled by inebriated students. 
 In Madison, two Common Council members, convinced that much of what ails downtown can be traced to the proliferation of bars and restaurants known more for drinking than dining, introduced a plan intended to reduce the number of such establishments, and to restrict the approval of new liquor licenses. 
 The plan, which has the support of Mayor Cieslewicz (pronounced chess-LEV-ich), is preliminary and does not detail, for example, how many or which places may be closed. A final plan is expected to be ready for a Council vote in the spring. 
 That area of nearly one square mile -- between Lake Mendota, Lake Monona and Blair and Lake Streets -- has 120 places that serve only or mostly alcohol. They have a capacity of more than 11,000 people, city officials said. 
 The proposal has its critics, many of whom call it nothing less than modern-day Prohibition, and an assault on personal freedom and the free market that flies in the face of Madison's traditional liberalism and Wisconsin's entrenched drinking culture. 
 Some Council members say they worry that limiting the number of bars will only increase the number of drinkers who turn to house parties and makeshift taverns, where binge drinking and bad behavior often go together but behind closed doors.
 ''A lot of the activists on this issue revile alcohol, and their logic is equally fallacious as the original Prohibitionists','' said Austin King, the president of the Common Council and a member of its Progressive caucus. ''From a safety perspective,'' Mr. King said, ''I would much, much rather have young people drinking in the regulated environment of bars.''
 College students, not surprisingly, also oppose the plan. ''A proportion of students drink irresponsibly, but the majority don't,'' said Katrina Schleitwiler, 21, a political science major at the University of Wisconsin. ''This would just drive students into other places to drink and not affect the problem at all.''
 Although Ms. Schleitwiler acknowledged a spate of crimes around campus and downtown, she said she did not think alcohol abuse by students or anyone else was at its root. ''Madison is becoming a big city with more crime,'' she said. ''How different is that from any other city?'' 
 The police see things differently. According to a recent police department analysis of attacks in which someone was injured downtown, about 75 percent of the victims and perpetrators were intoxicated. The analysis also found that after midnight on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, police officers, paramedics and firefighters often spent half to all of their working hours responding to alcohol-fueled fights and disorderly conduct. Noise, public urination and vandalism are constant concerns.
 The University of Wisconsin has tried many initiatives to curtail under-age drinking and older students' overconsumption. Most recently, the city and the college jointly paid for a municipal alcohol policy coordinator -- referred to as the ''bar czar'' -- to redouble those efforts. ''Frankly, nothing has worked very well, and there's still a culture of binge drinking,'' Mayor Cieslewicz said. 
 For the last five years, Madison, formerly a sleepy college town, has grown by about 2,500 people a year into a medium-size city with a population of about 230,000. In the last decade, 1,950 apartments -- rental and condominium units -- have been built downtown.
 But the arrival of so many newcomers has produced a culture clash.
 Stefanie Moritz, a retired librarian, moved with her husband from Phoenix into a downtown condominium about three years ago, drawn by pedestrian-friendly streets, a university job for her husband and the community's progressive politics. 
 ''We decided that we definitely wanted to live downtown, so we could get rid of one of our cars, my husband could walk to work and we could enjoy the downtown experience,'' Ms. Moritz said. ''The reality is a little bit different.''
 She said she quickly grew irritated at being awakened at 2:30 a.m., when the noisy bar crowd usually begins to make its way home, dropping empty beer cans and other trash along the way. One morning she woke to find that garbage had been torched and the flames had charred a tree. 
 ''I want to live downtown, but I also want a decent quality of life,'' Ms. Moritz said. ''And I feel that that is being denied by the present level of alcohol use.''
 About 18 months ago, Ms. Moritz became active in a relatively new residents' group, Capitol Neighborhoods, which is at the forefront of the push for stricter drinking rules. 
 Hawk Schenkel, the owner of one of the biggest restaurants on State Street, Hawk's Bar and Grill, pointed out that residents who criticized the downtown scene had ''moved downtown in a university town.''
 ''Do they know where all the revenue comes from downtown, why we have a downtown that's alive and worth being in?'' Mr. Schenkel asked. ''All that could change.'' 
 ''If the ordinance as written were to pass, my bar would automatically be worth at least $100,000 more, overnight, and it's clear that I personally stand to gain financially,'' he said. ''But I'm against this on principle, and I don't think it helps the problem. My argument is that there aren't enough bars. It's the overcrowding that leads to violence.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: There are more than 100 drinking establishments in downtown Madison, which is home to the main campus of the state university. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)Map of Wisconsin highlighting Madison: Madison, Wis., is considering ways to reduce downtown revelry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TRENDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); VANDALISM (70%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); LIBERALISM (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (57%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Vandalism; Alcohol Abuse; Crime and Criminals

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%)

PERSON: Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Madison (Wis)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



8 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: A Healthy New Year

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The U.S. health care system is a scandal and a disgrace. But maybe, just maybe, 2007 will be the year we start the move toward universal coverage.
 In 2005, almost 47 million Americans -- including more than 8 million children -- were uninsured, and many more had inadequate insurance.
Apologists for our system try to minimize the significance of these numbers. Many of the uninsured, asserted the 2004 Economic Report of the President, ''remain uninsured as a matter of choice.'' 
 And then you wake up. A scathing article in yesterday's Los Angeles Times described how insurers refuse to cover anyone with even the slightest hint of a pre-existing condition. People have been denied insurance for reasons that range from childhood asthma to a ''past bout of jock itch.''
 Some say that we can't afford universal health care, even though every year lack of insurance plunges millions of Americans into severe financial distress and sends thousands to an early grave. But every other advanced country somehow manages to provide all its citizens with essential care. The only reason universal coverage seems hard to achieve here is the spectacular inefficiency of the U.S. health care system.
 Americans spend more on health care per person than anyone else -- almost twice as much as the French, whose medical care is among the best in the world. Yet we have the highest infant mortality and close to the lowest life expectancy of any wealthy nation. How do we do it? 
 Part of the answer is that our fragmented system has much higher administrative costs than the straightforward government insurance systems prevalent in the rest of the advanced world. As Anna Bernasek pointed out in yesterday's New York Times, besides the overhead of private insurance companies, ''there's an enormous amount of paperwork required of American doctors and hospitals that simply doesn't exist in countries like Canada or Britain.'' 
 In addition, insurers often refuse to pay for preventive care, even though such care saves a lot of money in the long run, because those long-run savings won't necessarily redound to their benefit. And the fragmentation of the American system explains why we lag far behind other nations in the use of electronic medical records, which both reduce costs and save lives by preventing many medical errors. 
 The truth is that we can afford to cover the uninsured. What we can't afford is to keep going without a universal health care system.
 If it were up to me, we'd have a Medicare-like system for everyone, paid for by a dedicated tax that for most people would be less than they or their employers currently pay in insurance premiums. This would, at a stroke, cover the uninsured, greatly reduce administrative costs and make it much easier to work on preventive care.
 Such a system would leave people with the right to choose their own doctors, and with other choices as well: Medicare currently lets people apply their benefits to H.M.O.'s run by private insurance companies, and there's no reason why similar options shouldn't be available in a system of Medicare for all. But everyone would be in the system, one way or another.
 Can we get there from here? Health care reform is in the air. Democrats in Congress are talking about providing health insurance to all children. John Edwards began his presidential campaign with a call for universal health care. 
 And there's real action at the state level. Inspired by the Massachusetts plan to cover all its uninsured residents, politicians in other states are talking about adopting similar plans. Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon has introduced a Massachusetts-type plan for the nation as a whole. 
 But now is the time to warn against plans that try to cover the uninsured without taking on the fundamental sources of our health system's inefficiency. What's wrong with both the Massachusetts plan and Senator Wyden's plan is that they don't operate like Medicare; instead, they funnel the money through private insurance companies. 
 Everyone knows why: would-be reformers are trying to avoid too strong a backlash from the insurance industry and other players who profit from our current system's irrationality.
 But look at what happened to Bill Clinton. He rejected a single-payer approach, even though he understood its merits, in favor of a complex plan that was supposed to co-opt private insurance companies by giving them a largely gratuitous role. And the reward for this ''pragmatism'' was that insurance companies went all-out against his plan anyway, with the notorious ''Harry and Louise'' ads that, yes, mocked the plan's complexity. 
 Now we have another chance for fundamental health care reform. Let's not blow that chance with a pre-emptive surrender to the special interests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN (77%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); MEDICARE (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); ASTHMA (54%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (50%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



9 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Looking for the Next Google; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Wants a Slice Of the Web Search Pie

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 29 

 BODY:
In brand-new offices with a still-empty game room and enough space to triple their staff of nearly 30, a trio of entrepreneurs is leading an Internet start-up with an improbable mission: to out-Google Google. 
 The three started Powerset, a company whose aim is to deliver better answers than any other search engine -- including Google -- by letting users type questions in plain English. And they have made believers of Silicon Valley investors whose fortunes turn on identifying the next big thing.
''There's definitely a segment of the market that thinks we are crazy,'' said Charles Moldow, a partner at Foundation Capital, a venture capital firm that is Powerset's principal financial backer. ''In 2000, some people thought Google was crazy.''
 Powerset is hardly alone. Even as Google continues to outmaneuver its main search rivals, Yahoo and Microsoft, plenty of newcomers -- with names like hakia, ChaCha and Snap -- are trying to beat the company at its own game. And Wikia Inc., a company started by a founder of Wikipedia, plans to develop a search engine that, like the popular Web-based encyclopedia, would be built by a community of programmers and users. 
 These ambitious quests reflect the renewed optimism sweeping technology centers like Silicon Valley and fueling a nascent Internet boom. It also shows how much the new Internet economy resembles a planetary system where everything and everyone orbits around search in general, and around Google in particular. 
 Silicon Valley is filled with start-ups whose main business proposition is to be bought by Google, or for that matter by Yahoo or Microsoft. Countless other start-ups rely on Google as their primary driver of traffic or on Google's powerful advertising system as their primary source of income. Virtually all new companies compete with Google for scarce engineering talent. And divining Google's next move has become a fixation for scores of technology blogs and a favorite parlor game among technology investors.
 ''There is way too much obsession with search, as if it were the end of the world,'' said Esther Dyson, a well-known technology investor and forecaster. ''Google equals money equals search equals search advertising; it all gets combined as if this is the last great business model.''
 It may not be the last great business model, but Google has proved that search linked to advertising is a very large and lucrative business, and everyone -- including Ms. Dyson, who invested a small sum in Powerset -- seems to want a piece of it. 
 Since the beginning of 2004, venture capitalists have put nearly $350 million into no fewer than 79 start-ups that had something to do with Internet search, according to the National Venture Capital Association, an industry group. 
 An overwhelming majority are not trying to take Google head on, but rather are focusing on specialized slices of the search world, like searching for videos, blog postings or medical information. Since Google's stated mission is to organize all of the world's information, they may still find themselves in the search giant's cross hairs. That is not necessarily bad, as being acquired by Google could be a financial bonanza for some of these entrepreneurs and investors.
 But in the current boom, there is money even for those with the audacious goal of becoming a better Google.
 Powerset recently received $12.5 million in financing. Hakia, which like Powerset is trying to create a ''natural language'' search engine, got $16 million. Another $16 million went to Snap, which has focused on presenting search results in a more compelling way and is experimenting with a new advertising model. And ChaCha, which uses paid researchers that act as virtual reference librarians to provide answers to users' queries, got $6.1 million. 
 Still, recent history suggests that gaining traction is going to be difficult. Of dozens of search start-ups that were introduced in recent years, none had more than a 1 percent share of the United States search market in November, according to Nielsen NetRatings, a research firm that measures Internet traffic.
 Amassing a large audience has proved to be a challenge even for those with a track record and resources. Consider A9, a search engine owned by Amazon.com that received positive reviews when it began in 2004 and was run by Udi Manber, a widely recognized search specialist. Despite some innovative features and early successes, A9 has captured only a tiny share of the market. Mr. Manber now works for Google, where he is vice president of engineering.
 The setback apparently has not stopped Amazon or its chief executive, Jeffrey P. Bezos, from pursuing profits in search. ChaCha said it counts an investment company owned by Mr. Bezos among its backers, and Amazon is an investor in Wikia. An Amazon spokeswoman said Mr. Bezos does not comment about his personal investments.
 Some start-ups are similarly bullish. ''We expect to be one of the top three search engines,'' said Riza C. Berkan, the chief executive of hakia. It is a bold claim, given that hakia's technology is not yet ready for prime time, and Mr. Berkan readily concedes it will take time to perfect it.
 The dream, however, is quintessential Silicon Valley. 
 ''It is hard for me to believe that anybody thinks they can take Google's business from Google,'' said Randy Komisar, a venture capitalist who was once known as Silicon Valley's ''virtual C.E.O.'' for his role as a mentor to scores of technology firms. ''But to call the game over because Google has been such a success would be to deny history.''
 In some ways, the willingness of so many to make multimillion-dollar investments to take on Google and other search companies represents a startling change. In the late 1990s, when Microsoft dominated the technology world, inventors and investors did everything they could to avoid competing with the software company. 
 Yet many of today's search start-ups are putting themselves squarely in the path of the Google steamroller. Most explain that decision in similar ways. 
 They say that Google's dominance today is different from Microsoft's in the late 90s when its operating system was a virtual monopoly and nearly impossible to break. In the Internet search industry, ''you earn your right to be in business every day, page view after page view, click after click,'' said Barney Pell, a founder and the chief executive of Powerset, whose search service is not yet available.
 They also say that the market for search simply is too large to resist. Google, which, according to Nielsen, handles about half of all Internet searches in the United States, is valued at an astonishing $141 billion. So, the reasoning goes, anyone who can grab even a small slice of the search market could be well rewarded. 
 ''You don't need to be No. 1 to be worth billions of dollars,'' said Allen Morgan, a partner at Mayfield Fund, a venture capital firm that invested $10 million in Snap. The company is also backed by Bill Gross, an Internet financier who pioneered the idea of linking ads and search results, only to see Google seize the powerful business model and improve on it.
 Almost all of today's search entrepreneurs also say that Google's success lends credibility to their own long-shot quest. 
 When Lawrence Page and Sergey Brin first started tinkering with what would become Google, other search engines like AltaVista and Lycos and Excite were dominant. But the companies that owned them were distracted by efforts to diversify their businesses, and they took their eye off the ball of Internetsearch and stopped innovating.
 Some now say that search has not evolved much in years, and that Google is similarly distracted as it introduces new products like word processors, spreadsheets and online payment systems and expands into online video, social networking and other businesses. 
 ''The more Google starts to think about taking on Microsoft, the less it is a pure search play, and the more it opens the door for new innovations,'' said Mr. Moldow, the Foundation Capital partner. ''That's great for us.''
 But at the same time, Google, Yahoo and Microsoft have thousands of engineers, including some of the world's top search specialists, working on improving their search results. And they have spent billions building vast computer networks so they can respond instantly to the endless stream of queries from around the world. 
 Search ''is becoming an increasingly capital-intensive business,'' said Marissa Mayer, Google's vice president for search. That makes it harder for start-ups to catch up to the giants, she said.
 That is not stopping entrepreneurs from betting that they can. Powerset has search and natural-language experts among its two dozen employees, including former top engineers from Yahoo and a former chief linguist from Ask Jeeves, Ask.com's predecessor. They are the kind of people who could easily land jobs at Google or Microsoft or Yahoo. 
 Steve Newcomb, a Powerset founder and veteran of several successful start-ups, said his company could become the next Google. Or, he said, if Google or someone else perfected natural-language search before Powerset, then his company would make a great acquisition for one of the other search companies. ''We are a huge story no matter what,'' he said. 
 Ms. Dyson, the technology commentator and Powerset investor, captured the optimism more concisely and with less swagger. ''I love Google,'' she said, ''but I love the march of history.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Steve Newcomb, Lorenzo Thione and Barney Pell are the founders of Powerset, a search engine. (Photo by Jessica Brandi Lifland for The New York Times)(pg. C2)Drawing (Drawing by James C. Best Jr.)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); SEARCH ENGINES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STARTUPS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%) Computers and the Internet; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Powerset; Hakia (Co); ChaCha (Co); Snap (Co); Wikipedia; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: JIMMY WALES (65%) Miguel Helft

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



10 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: France Frets As Louvre Looks Overseas

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
When the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation began offering its expertise, collections and name to new museums around the world some years ago, not a few French curators and art critics sniffed disdainfully at the idea that a major museum should rent its art and sell its brand.
 Now France too seems to be heading down a similar path, and opposition is mounting here. 
Questions are being raised about plans to create a satellite of the Louvre in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates, and to establish an outpost of the Georges Pompidou Center in Shanghai. Critics have accused President Jacques Chirac of using the country's museums to promote France's political and commercial interests abroad.
 ''Museums are not for sale,'' proclaimed the headline of an opinion article in Le Monde on Dec. 13 signed by three heavyweights of the French art world, Francoise Cachin, former director of French museums; Jean Clair, former director of the Picasso Museum; and Roland Recht, a leading art historian.
 ''From a moral point of view,'' the authors wrote, ''one can only be shocked by the commercial and promotional use of masterpieces of our national heritage.'' France should lend works of art, they said, but without charge. ''Objects of our heritage are not consumer goods,'' they added. ''And to protect them is to guarantee their universal value for tomorrow.''
 A French art Web site, La Tribune de l'Art (latribunedelart.com), quickly organized a petition endorsing Le Monde's article and demanding ''preservation of the integrity of the collections of the French museums.'' 
 The government is at the center of the dispute because, unlike most major cultural institutions in the United States, France's national museums are government owned and heavily subsidized. The Culture Ministry appoints their directors and has the last word on major policy decisions.
 Thus the ministry endorsed earlier, uncontroversial moves by the Louvre and the Pompidou to spread beyond their walls. Both are now building striking new satellites -- the Louvre in Lens northwest of Paris and the Pompidou in Metz in eastern France -- to display parts of their collection, much of which is permanently in storage.
 But eyebrows were raised when the museums reached outside France. The Pompidou had hoped to participate, in collaboration with the Guggenheim, no less, in a major urban and cultural development planned for Hong Kong, but that scheme fell through. Now it is looking to open an annex in Shanghai, perhaps as soon as 2009.
 Pompidou officials assert that the aim is not to make money but rather to be present in China as that country emerges as a major new center of contemporary art. And President Chirac, who recently visited China, is clearly eager to use the Pompidou to raise France's profile in the world's fastest growing economy.
 With negotiations under way and details still under wraps, the Shanghai plan has so far raised only questions. In their article in Le Monde, Ms. Cachin, Mr. Clair and Mr. Recht asked whether it would not be wiser to expand the Pompidou itself so that it could show more of its collection in Paris.
 The Louvre is viewed more skeptically. Last fall it began a three-year loan program to the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, with a series of exhibitions of works taken from its storerooms and walls. In exchange it will receive $6.4 million to be spent on the renovation of its decorative arts galleries. 
 It is not uncommon for entire collections or exhibitions to receive loan fees. Nonetheless many critics felt it was undignified for the Louvre to be seen exchanging art for money.
 Defending the decision, Henri Loyrette, the president and director of the Louvre, argued that the program bolstered the museum's prestige, a claim supported by the popularity of its Atlanta displays. He also said that he considered the money offered by private American donors to be a contribution to the Louvre, and not a fee.
 The Abu Dhabi project, however, has raised more complicated issues. If approved, the Louvre annex would be one of five museums planned by Abu Dhabi as part of a multibillion-dollar tourist development on Saadiyat Island. Already last July, the Guggenheim signed a memorandum of understanding with Abu Dhabi to build a museum designed by Frank Gehry.
 According to French press reports Mr. Loyrette was barely consulted about the Louvre's involvement and privately expressed reservations, noting that the Louvre's resources were strained by the High Museum program and the Louvre-Lens development. But, the reports said, he was overruled.
 The critics have much to work with: the idea of removing major works from the Louvre for long periods; the usefulness of engaging in a tiny oil emirate with a population of under two million and the propriety of receiving a reported $1 billion in exchange. ''Isn't that 'selling your soul?' '' Ms. Cachin, Mr. Clair and Mr. Recht asked in Le Monde.
 Some commentators, though, have suggested that the Louvre's participation is itself a payoff. According to a French government report to Parliament, the United Arab Emirates acquired more than $10 billion worth of French armaments, mainly Mirage fighter planes, between 1996 and 2005.
 One sign of the political sensitivity of the issue is that inquiries to the Louvre about Abu Dhabi were channeled to the Culture Ministry, where the official in charge did not respond to requests for an interview. Francine Mariani-Ducray, Ms. Cachin's successor, has insisted, however, that loans of art to the emirate did not mean ''selling'' French museums.
 Also writing in Le Monde, she charged critics with disdaining small developing countries and said it was a tribute to French cultural influence that France had been invited to share its expertise with Abu Dhabi. ''It is a chance that should be seized,'' she said.
 In the government, though, there are signs of still more radical thinking. Last month a report ordered by the Economy Ministry said that France should lift ''several taboos'' on its cultural policy, including allowing museums to rent or sell works of art. The report even cited the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, as a good example of how a brand could be exploited internationally.
 It is a fact of French public life that once the president decides something, the rest of the government closes ranks around him. So those defending the uniquely spiritual quality of art may be on the ropes. On the other hand France holds presidential and parliamentary elections in the spring and after that everything could change again.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Rembrandt from the Louvre lent to the High Museum in Atlanta. (Photos by Atlanta-Journal Constitution)(pg,. E1)
At left, a model of the Georges Pompidou branch scheduled to open in 2007 in Metz in northeastern France. At right, a computer design of Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi, where the Louvre plans an annex. (Photo by Jean-Christophe Verhaegen)
 (Photo by saadiyat.ae)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); PETITIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ART HISTORY (72%); WRITERS (66%) Art; Art; La Tribune de l'Art (Web Site)

ORGANIZATION: Louvre (Paris); Pompidou, Georges, Centre (Paris); Le Monde (French Newspaper); Picasso Museum (Paris)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (77%) Alan Riding; Francoise Cachin; Jean Clair; Roland Recht; Jacques Chirac; Henri Loyrette

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (88%) EAST CHINA (88%) FRANCE (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%) France; Abu Dhabi; Shanghai (China)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



11 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: The Spitzer Team

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:

Eliot Laurence Spitzer begins his term as the state's 54th governor today. He has pledged to reform the way the state does business and to bring a higher ethical standard to Albany. He recently outlined a number of sweeping steps that he would take unilaterally, including restricting campaign contributions and banning gifts of more than nominal value. But after promising to look far and wide for talent, many of his appointees come from the attorney general's office, or from his campaign staff. Some key positions remain unfilled, including the job of health commissioner. Here are the top officials who have been named, many of whom require Senate confirmation. DANNY HAKIM

THE GOVERNOR'S CENTRAL STAFF 


Richard Baum
SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR
Mr. Spitzer's right-hand man and longtime chief of staff as attorney general will fill the same role in the governor's office. He was the executive director of the transition office as well as Mr. Spitzer's top campaign aide.

Paul Francis
BUDGET DIRECTOR
He was policy director both for the Spitzer campaign and the transition office. Has had careers in business as a venture capitalist and as C.F.O. Will need to find a way to rein in the budget while increasing education spending.

David L. Paterson
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
Has been Senate minority leader and will be a liaison to the Legislature. Mr. Paterson has had a good relationship with Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican. Mr. Paterson is expected to have a bigger role than his predecessors.

Peter Pope
POLICY DIRECTOR
Has been deputy attorney general overseeing the office's criminal division.

Marty Mack
DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Has been deputy attorney general for the last eight years. A former mayor of Cortland.

Darren Dopp
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR
Another staff member from the attorney general's office who will fill the same role in the governor's office. He and the governor have pledged to make state government more accessible to the public and the press.

Dennis P. Whalen
DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR HEALTH
Will be the governor's top adviser on health care issues and have a critical role in overhauling the state's Medicaid budget. Currently serves as executive deputy commissioner for State Department of Health, but has had ethical problems in the past, having been fined by State Ethics Commission for accepting gifts from people lobbying the state.

Christine Anderson
PRESS SECRETARY
Was communications director for Mr. Spitzer's campaign, and previously a spokeswoman for the Kerry-Edwards campaign and the investment bank UBS.

Francine James
APPOINTMENTS SECRETARY
Critical gatekeeper for filling state jobs. Filled a similar role as assistant first deputy attorney general, overseeing legal recruitment.

Michael A.L. Balboni
DEPUTY SECRETARY FOR PUBLIC SAFETY
A prominent Republican appointee, will be the top domestic security and law enforcement official. Mr. Balboni, a State Senator, is an expert on homeland security. His appointment reduces the slim Republican Senate majority.

Michael Schell
SENIOR ADVISER FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Was Mr. Spitzer's upstate campaign director.

Laura Anglin
FIRST DEPUTY BUDGET DIRECTOR
Previously the deputy comptroller of the Division of Retirement Services, with responsibility for administration of the state and local retirement system.

David Nocenti
COUNSEL
Filling the same role he has filled in the attorney general's office, he will be the governor's chief legal adviser. He previously was in the counsel's office during the Cuomo administration and was counsel to former Queens Borough President Claire Shulman.

Richard Rifkin
SPECIAL COUNSEL
Another top legal adviser to Mr. Spitzer in the attorney general's office, he will be one of the governor's top legal advisers. Has a long history in the attorney general's office, having first joined in 1979, but left in the mid-1990s for a stint as the executive director of the State Ethics Commission.

HEADS OF AGENCIES & SELECT AUTHORITIES

Eric R. Dinallo
INSURANCE SUPERINTENDENT
Was chief of the Investment Protection Bureau in the attorney general's office, overseeing some of Mr. Spitzer's key Wall Street cases. Worked for Morgan Stanley and then was general counsel of Willis Group Holdings Limited, an insurance broker.

Pat Foye
DOWNSTATE CHAIRMAN, STATE URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Former lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, where both Mr. Spitzer and his wife have practiced, now chief executive of United Way of Long Island. Mr. Spitzer is splitting the Empire State Development Corporation job in two to emphasize his commitment to revitalizing the upstate economy.

Elliot Sander
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND C.E.O. OF THE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
An executive at DMJM Harris, a transportation engineering company, and head of the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management at New York University. The ''C.E.O.'' title is a new one, a challenge to M.T.A. chairman Peter S. Kalikow, a holdover from the Pataki era.

Anthony Ernest Shorris
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE PORT AUTHORITY
Was a senior policy adviser to the Spitzer-Paterson campaign and the transition staff. Previously was first deputy executive director of the Port Authority.

Patricia Smith
COMMISSIONER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
Currently assistant attorney general in charge of the Labor Bureau.

Priscilla Almodovar
PRESIDENT AND C.E.O., HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITY
Was a policy adviser for the campaign and transition team; health care and housing were among her areas of focus. Was a lawyer at White & Case.

Carol Ash
COMMISSIONER, DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Has been the executive director of the Palisades Interstate Park Commission since 1999.

Gladys Carrion
COMMISSIONER OF THE OFFICE OF CHILDREN AND FAMILY SERVICES
Has been the senior vice president of United Way of New York City since 2005, previously was the executive director of Inwood House.

Avi Schick
DOWNSTATE PRESIDENT OF THE EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Currently deputy attorney general in the New York State attorney general's office. He began his legal career at Kirkpatrick & Lockhart.

Brian Fischer
COMMISSIONER, DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
Since 1991, has served as the supervising superintendent of the New York State Department of Correctional Services.

Kumiki Gibson
COMMISSIONER, DIVISION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
Previously an official at the National Urban League and general counsel at Johns Hopkins University.

David A. Hansell
COMMISSIONER OF THE OFFICE OF TEMPORARY AND DISABILITY ASSISTANCE
Serves as chief of staff at the New York City Human Resources Administration.

David J. Swarts
COMMISSIONER, DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Has served as clerk of Erie County since 1987.

Lorraine Cortes-Vazquez
SECRETARY OF STATE
A former president of the Hispanic Federation, has been working as a lobbyist for Cablevision.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (87%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); EDUCATION FUNDING (51%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Public Authorities; Governors (US)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



12 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Arrives With Mandate, But Challenges Are Daunting

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Eliot Laurence Spitzer takes the oath of office as New York's 54th governor in a capital desperately in need of a new moral authority figure. 
 Whether or not he succeeds in fulfilling the soaring expectations that led to his landslide victory, his political timing is fortunate. After making ethical reform one of the central pledges of his campaign, Mr. Spitzer has watched from the sidelines in recent weeks as scandal has engulfed the upper reaches of state government.
''This is a crisis that I don't want to waste,'' Mr. Spitzer said in an interview before he was sworn in early today. [Page B4.] ''If there is a result of this momentary concentration on ethical dilemmas and failures, an opportunity to galvanize support for reform, we better seize it.''
 Since the November election, Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat, has resigned and pleaded guilty to a felony. The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, has revealed that federal authorities were investigating his outside consulting work. State Senator Efrain Gonzalez Jr., a Democrat, has been charged with stealing more than $400,000 in state money. And a state court judge has forced a recalcitrant Legislature to reveal how it spends hundreds of millions of dollars worth of taxpayer funds on pet projects. 
 In his effort to change the culture of Albany, Mr. Spitzer said that upon taking office, he would issue ''a slew'' of executive orders ''relating to ethics, procurement and the behavior of the leadership in the agencies where a governor has unilateral control.''
 The orders will mirror those he recently outlined for his own staff, which included a ban on gifts of more than nominal value and a prohibition on members of the executive branch from lobbying any part of the executive branch for two years after they leave their posts.
 More daunting will be his efforts to push lawmakers to pass a number of measures early in the legislative session as he seizes on his landslide victory and the recent corruption scandals to push his agenda. 
 ''He has talked about redistricting reform, he's talked about campaign finance reform, he's talked about ending pay to play and he's talked overall about a transparent and accountable state government,'' said Blair Horner, the legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''If he accomplishes all of that, that's probably more reform than we've seen in New York for the last 200 years.''
 Mr. Spitzer is trying to reshape a state government notoriously resistant to change. Voters re-elected Mr. Hevesi as their comptroller after he admitted using state employees to chauffeur his wife. And while nearly a dozen lawmakers faced criminal charges in the last few years, many were subsequently re-elected. Mr. Spitzer will probably gain more traction from voters by delivering on his other priorities, including lowering property taxes and revitalizing the upstate economy. 
 As attorney general, Mr. Spitzer made his name by taking on Wall Street corruption as the bull market of the late 1990s unraveled and the Securities and Exchange Commission had a limited appetite for enforcement, giving him an opening to redefine his job and make himself a nationally known figure.
 But he now must learn to work by consensus instead of by subpoena, and close watchers of the Albany scene say Mr. Spitzer must act fast so as not to lose momentum.
 Still, while reform proposals have stalled for years in the legislature, lawmakers are aware that Mr. Spitzer was elected by a record margin. 
 ''Right now the Legislature is on its heels,'' Mr. Horner said. ''They know the public and the new governor wants action, and I think the Legislature will want to accommodate him, but if he gets bogged down in the first session, it makes it harder to achieve the things he wants to do.''
 Already, Senate Republicans have embraced Mr. Spitzer's proposal to delineate all spending items in the state budget, ending the practice by the Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki of writing large blank checks into the budget that they could later spend, largely in secret. 
 Certainly, the new governor has a much more caffeinated style than the old one. There were titters in political circles when Mr. Pataki recently escorted a group of former Republican governors to the Broadway show ''The Drowsy Chaperone.'' The play's title echoed the criticisms frequently lobbed at Mr. Pataki -- that he has been rarely seen or heard in Albany as its problems have festered. 
 Mr. Spitzer has the on-the-offensive style of a former prosecutor and is well known for rattling rich and powerful cages. He made a campaign slogan of changing Albany ''on Day 1'' of his administration, but sought to set a new tone even earlier. Shortly before the election, he withdrew his endorsement of Mr. Hevesi, even though the two had been close political allies. Mr. Spitzer said that after the election he would begin adhering to a set of campaign finance guidelines far stricter than those required by state law.
 There have been, however, some steps that have raised eyebrows, including Mr. Spitzer's appointment of a Cablevision lobbyist to be his new secretary of state. But many of his closest advisers will be veterans of the attorney general's office or of his campaign. 
 In his inaugural address, Mr. Spitzer will strive to flower his litigator's prose with rhetorical flourishes. Along those lines, he said he would ''hearken back to the great transformations New York has gone through -- the Erie Canal is everybody's favorite metaphor, and there will be some passing reference to it -- and Teddy Roosevelt's effort to bring a new ethic of governance to the capital.''
 ''The theme of the inaugural speech is clearly going to be that we are turning a corner,'' he said. ''We have to think of ourselves through a different prism, both in terms of ethics and as an entire state. We have to think of ourselves as one New York and not a series of interests that are spoken to, appealed to and mollified.''
 Brass tacks will probably wait until Wednesday, when Mr. Spitzer delivers his first address to the Legislature, and until Feb. 1, when his first executive budget is due.
 ''Somebody told me an inaugural is values, a State of the State is principles and the budget is the bad news,'' he said. 
 The bad news starts with the multibillion-dollar deficits projected for the state in future years. 
 ''The surplus we had at the end of the year is no different than an advance on a credit card bill that will come due on our next statement,'' he said. ''There is an increasing series of deficits as we proceed to Year 2, 3 and 4. The deficit increases by several billion dollars a year thereafter, and this is a consequence of prior budgets having pushed costs into the out years. That will make it tough, and tough choices have to be made.''
 But Mr. Spitzer has some costly promises to keep, and conversely, some politically risky cuts to make. During the campaign, he outlined a complicated set of priorities, including reining in state spending to offset escalating future deficits, but also increasing spending on education and cutting by half the number of New Yorkers without health insurance. 
 In his speech, he said, he will touch on his three overarching goals.
 At the forefront are his plans for ethical reforms, which include exploring changes to the quasi-independent public authorities that control much of the state's spending but act, as he has said, as a ''shadow government'' with little accountability.
 A second focus will be investing in the state's infrastructure, including large transportation projects like replacing the Tappan Zee Bridge and building the Second Avenue subway. He also wants the state to take a much more assertive role in creating lower-cost housing. 
 ''We haven't had an aggressive state housing policy for how long?'' he said. ''The state has to participate if we're going to build the housing stock we need.''
 Perhaps the most complicated part of his three-pronged agenda is his plan for economic revitalization. Reviving the economy of upstate New York, and particularly the Buffalo area, is of such concern that he split the leadership of the Empire State Development Corporation in half, with leaders for upstate and downstate. He also wants to rein in state spending overall, in part by overhauling the Medicaid system, but also by lowering property taxes and providing relief to businesses on issues like workers' compensation policies. At the same time, he wants to increase education spending by billions of dollars. 
 With so much to do, he hopes to move quickly. 
 ''Delay is the enemy of progress,'' he said. ''If you do not lay out the agenda early on and lay out the framework for change, we won't get there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eliot Spitzer and his wife, Silda Wall Spitzer, visited the stage outside the Capitol yesterday. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); FELONIES (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); JUDGES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); REDISTRICTING (66%) Ethics; Gifts; Lobbying and Lobbyists

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



13 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Chief Justice Advocates Higher Pay for Judiciary 

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. made judicial pay the sole topic of his second annual report, issued on Sunday, declaring that the failure by Congress to raise federal judges' salaries in recent years has become a ''constitutional crisis'' that puts the future of the federal courts in jeopardy.
 He noted that judges had fallen well behind the American labor force as a whole in keeping up with inflation over the past 25 years, with judges' pay having declined by 23.9 percent since 1969, adjusted for inflation, while the national average for all wages rose by 17.8 percent. 
Given such a ''dramatic erosion of judicial compensation,'' the chief justice said, it was ''clear that the time is ripe for our nation's judges to receive a substantial salary increase.''
 His annual report noted that his predecessor, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, had spoken out on the issue of judicial pay for 20 years. Chief Justice Roberts himself mentioned it, among other topics, a year ago in his first report.
 He decided to make the subject his sole policy focus this time, he said, in the hope that ''people will take notice'' of a problem that ''has now reached the level of a constitutional crisis that threatens to undermine the strength and independence of the federal judiciary.''
 Federal judges rarely left the bench in the past but are now leaving at an increasing rate, 38 in the past six years, including 17 in the last two years. ''Inadequate compensation directly threatens the viability of life tenure,'' the chief justice said.
 Further, he noted that judges were increasingly drawn from among lawyers already working in the public sector, often as state court judges or federal magistrate judges. Fewer than 40 percent of new federal district judges come from the private sector, Chief Justice Roberts said, adding, ''It changes the nature of the federal judiciary when judges are no longer drawn primarily from among the best lawyers in the practicing bar.''
 By statute, federal district judges receive the same salaries as members of Congress, now $165,200 a year. Judges on the federal appeals courts receive $175,100; associate justices of the Supreme Court, $203,000; and the chief justice $212,100. The linkage of district judges' and Congressional salaries means that judges pay the price when members of Congress discern that it would be politically unpopular to raise their own pay.
 That is not the only problem, from the judges' perspective. Their last substantial pay raise was a 25 percent increase provided by a 1989 law, the Ethics Reform Act, under which judges lost the right to earn most types of outside income in return for the raise and the promise of regular cost-of-living increases. But there were no increases in 5 of the last 13 years. Congress ended its 2006 session without providing a cost-of-living increase for the current fiscal year. ''Congressional inaction in the face of this situation is grievously unfair,'' the chief justice said.
 The outlook may be somewhat brighter for 2007. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who will take over as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, on Sunday praised the chief justice's report and said he would ''do what I can to convince Congress to fairly evaluate this issue and the chief's arguments.'' A cost-of-living increase ''should be an early item of business that the new Congress can accomplish,'' Mr. Leahy said.
 Mr. Leahy noted that a bill he sponsored four years ago to make up for the missed cost-of-living increases had passed the Senate but failed in the House of Representatives. ''I hope Congress and the president will reconsider such a measure this year and will do their duty when it comes to fair compensation for the independent judiciary,'' he said.
 As earnings have soared in recent years for lawyers at the top firms, federal judges have found it galling that their own law clerks outstrip them within a year or two of entering private practice. Including salary and year-end bonuses, first-year associates at leading New York City firms earned as much as $175,000 in 2006. On top of that, firms offer a signing bonus of $200,000 to entice Supreme Court law clerks to join their ranks.
 Chief Justice Roberts, who earned slightly more than $1 million from his law firm in 2003, his last full year in private practice, said judges did not expect to keep up with what they could earn in private life. ''We do not even talk about comparisons with the practicing bar anymore,'' he said. 
 For the last several years, judges discussing the pay question have pointed to a different benchmark that they regard as a more realistic indicator of how far they have lagged: the difference between judges' pay and the salaries in legal academia.
 Justice Stephen G. Breyer, a former law professor himself, testified in 2002 at a hearing of the National Commission on the Public Service, a private group headed by Paul A. Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
 Justice Breyer presented charts showing that while in 1969, federal district judges earned slightly more than law school deans, $40,000 compared to $33,000, and substantially more than the $28,000 earned by senior law professors, the situation by 2002 was completely reversed. In that year, the judges were earning $150,000, compared to $250,000 for the professors and $325,000 for the deans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); JUDGES (91%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); MAGISTRATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%) Courts; Wages and Salaries; Judges

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (90%) Linda Greenhouse; John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



14 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Honor Ford Under the Capitol Dome

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and ASHLEY PARKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Thousands of mourners filed past the coffin of former President Gerald R. Ford on Sunday as he lay in state below the Capitol dome, many saying they came to pay overdue respect to an overshadowed leader. 
 ''We owe him a debt of gratitude, and we never really expressed it,'' said Tim Fain, a consultant for I.B.M. who lives a few blocks away from the Capitol.
''He didn't ask to be president,'' Mr. Fain said. ''He didn't have an agenda. He was a good man, an honorable man, who was asked to do a horrible job, through no fault of his own, and came through and brought the country back together.'' 
 Mr. Ford's memorial did not bring out the kind of crowds or emotions that President Ronald Reagan's did two years ago, when the round-the-clock viewing attracted tens of thousands who waited in line for five hours or more. The wait to see Mr. Ford's coffin was seldom longer than an hour. 
 Indeed, many in the crowd said they came as much to honor the office of president as the man who had occupied it for two and a half tumultuous years in the 1970s. More people talked about Watergate, Vietnam and inflation than about Mr. Ford's words or deeds. Mourners gawked at the Capitol's art and architecture as guards guided them in and out. Almost everyone interviewed said they happened to be in town or lived nearby.
 ''Not a lot of presidents are going to be dying in the near future,'' said Frank Lopes, an advertising executive from Asbury, N.J. ''It is an opportunity to see how the respect is paid.''
 Marissa Hyde brought her young daughter from the Virginia suburbs because, Ms. Hyde said, ''This is a history-making event, and it is not every day that we live in the nation's capital and can see something like this.''
 Filing out of the rotunda, where Mr. Ford's coffin lay on the bier once used for Lincoln and under the painting of ''The Apotheosis of Washington'' in the eye of the dome, some said they were surprised by a wave of feelings for Mr. Ford. Ms. Hyde, for one, left choking back tears.
 R. J. Konkoleski, a hospice worker from Adena, Ohio, who was born in 1977, the year Mr. Ford left office, said, ''It was a lot more moving than I even anticipated.'' Mr. Konkoleski said he happened to be visiting friends on the Eastern Shore of Maryland and came to the Capitol out of a sense of patriotic duty. But he left marveling at the chain of circumstances that elevated Mr. Ford to lead the most powerful nation in the world, saying, ''Would he have made it if all the 'ifs' weren't there?''
 Joanne Richcreek, who said she had arrived from Fairfax, Va., before 7 a.m., said she came partly because of a first-hand experience with Mr. Ford. While she was still working for the government, Ms. Richcreek said, she once had to call the Michigan office that he maintained after leaving the presidency, expecting to talk to a secretary. ''A guy got on the phone and said, 'This is Jerry. Who is this?' '' she recalled. ''He was very friendly, so there was this personal connection.''
 Two of the former president's sons, Jack and Steve, spent time Sunday afternoon shaking hands with visitors before they filed past the coffin, thanking each one on behalf of the family. Former Senator Bob Dole, Mr. Ford's running mate in 1976, came to pay his respects and appeared surprised to see Jack Ford.
 Although few said they had traveled long distances to be there, Charles Pruett, an administrator at Georgetown University, postponed a trip to Los Angeles for New Year's Eve. 
 ''He was a very good and decent man who was called at the right time to serve the country when we needed it most,'' Mr. Pruett said. ''We were very fortunate, and I felt that if I could do anything to at least show a little respect I was going to do so.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mourners filed past President Gerald R. Ford's coffin yesterday in the United States Capitol in Washington. It will remain there until tomorrow. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)
As people signed condolence books for the Ford family, left, President Ford's son Jack, right, greeted visitors in the Capitol rotunda yesterday. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICS (73%); HOSPICE (63%) Capitol (Washington, DC); United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) Gerald Rudolph Jr Ford; David D Kirkpatrick; Ashley Parker

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007



15 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE YEAR AHEAD IN MARKETS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Weathering a Storm in Shelter

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Five years ago, the United States economy went through a recession that did virtually no damage to the housing market. In 2007, the question is whether the economy can emerge unscathed from a housing recession.
 As 2006 ended, the opinion of stock market investors could not have been clearer: there are blue skies ahead. The Dow Jones industrial average, which was up 16.3 percent for 2006, was setting new highs in the final week of the year, and even the shares of home builders had rallied sharply from their midyear lows.
In the bond market, however, the outlook was cloudy at best. Prices in the futures market showed that investors expected that the next move by the Federal Reserve would be to reduce the interest rate it has raised 17 times since mid-2004.
 That indicates worry about a slowing economy. And another traditional indicator -- the yield curve -- says the same thing. When short-term interest rates exceed long-term rates, as they do now, a recession often follows. 
 Nonetheless, there are other indicators in the bond market to show a complete lack of worry. In a recession, less creditworthy borrowers are more likely to default as business turns bad, so investors who fear a downturn are expected to demand higher interest rates from them.
 But investors are not doing that. The spread between Treasury bonds and BB-rated bonds -- the best level of junk -- has shrunk to historic lows of less than two percentage points. And while very bad junk bonds -- those rated CCC or lower -- pay much more, spreads there fell to their lowest ever in 2006, although they drifted up a bit late in the year.
 So the stock market says a boom is here and is going to stay, housing notwithstanding. And the bond market expects a recession -- but one that does not damage those who are financially stretched before it begins. ''We think of markets as forecasters,'' said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG. ''But it is very hard to come up with a model'' that makes sense of the current forecasts.
 The answer to that conundrum is probably to look at markets from a different perspective. They move because money comes in or goes out, and money now is easier and more plentiful than ever. So most asset prices have risen, whether stocks or long-term bonds or commodities. An exception is short-term debt. There is no upside to a Treasury bill that matures in a few months, and thus little attraction to it.
 There is a perception that central banks tightened in 2006, and that was true of the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. But it is anything but accurate about the central banks that matter the most now.
 ''We are in a global market, with the central banks of Japan and China very, very easy,'' Mr. Barbera said. ''Two central banks are pumping it out hand over fist.''
 Where is the money going? Into consumption in many countries, and into a bidding war for assets as well. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which generally contains the largest public companies in the United States, now has eight companies in it that have announced plans to go private, often with a lot of borrowed money involved.
 And companies that are awash with cash are putting a lot of that money into dividends and even more into stock buybacks, at least among S.& P. 500 companies, reports Howard Silverblatt, an analyst with Standard & Poor's. He estimates that those 500 companies spent $425 billion on capital in 2006, up 3 percent from the prior year, and spent $437 billion on stock buybacks, up 25 percent. It was the first year ever that more money was spent on buybacks than capital spending. Dividends climbed 11 percent, to $224 billion.
 Stock of Exxon Mobil, the largest company in the country by market value, rose 36 percent, but because of share buybacks the company's market value climbed only 28 percent, leaving it at $447 billion. That is still well below the record year-end value for an American company, the $603 billion valuation for Microsoft at the end of 1999. Microsoft, its stock up 14 percent in 2006, ended the year as the fourth-largest company, with a market value of $258 billion, trailing General Electric and Citigroup.
 Among all companies, not just those in the index, S.& P. counted 221 special dividends in December, the most for a single month since 1978.
 Some stocks went down, of course, but not that many. All of the 10 sectors in the S.& P. 500 showed gains, with the best performance coming from telecommunications services, which rose 32 percent, and the worst from health care, which managed a gain of 6 percent.
 The overall index managed a gain in 11 of the 12 months, the exception being May. The last time the index managed that was in 1958. For what it's worth, the year that followed, 1959, was a respectable year with a rise of more than 8 percent. 
 But as good as the market was in the United States, it was better almost everywhere else. The S.& P. 500 rose 13.6 percent. But in dollar terms, virtually every major market in Europe was up at least 20 percent, and some grew much more. The Asian performance was more mixed, with Japan's leading index rising just 5.7 percent, but many of those markets did much better than the United States did.
 The vast majority of American stocks have surpassed the highs they set in the great bull market that ended in 2000, but that is not true of many of the most prominent stocks. That bull market was kindest to technology stocks; many of them have not come close to recovering to their old peaks, and may never do so. It was also kind to large stocks in general, as a lot of money poured into index funds that tracked the S.& P. 500 index, and some of the largest, such as General Electric and Merck, are well below where they were.
 That index, calculated the traditional way that gives the highest weight to the largest companies, ended the year at 1,418.30, still 7.1 percent below its 2000 high of 1,527.48. But the index is also calculated on an equal-weighted basis, in which each of the 500 stocks counts as much as any other. For the year, that index did only a little better than the regular S.& P., but it ended the year 52 percent above its 2000 high.
 The Dow, of course, set records in the year. But just 8 of the 30 Dow stocks -- Boeing, Exxon Mobil, Altria, American Express, Procter & Gamble, United Technologies, Caterpillar and Citigroup -- set new highs in 2006. Two of them, Eastman Kodak and International Paper, have never risen above the highs they set in 1997.
 The dollar, widely forecast to weaken, did so against the euro, and the Chinese yuan was allowed to float upward against the dollar, gaining 3.4 percent during the year. But the dollar actually showed a small gain against the Japanese yen.
 That the dollar held up as well as it did in the face of growing trade deficits reflects that people around the world continue to be happy to hold dollar-denominated assets, including Treasury securities. That willingness has also helped to hold down interest rates in this country.
 Those low interest rates helped support home prices. As home prices rose, lenders became more willing to lend on homes with little equity, or to people whose ability to repay seemed suspect, and that lending also provided money to keep consumption strong. Mortgage defaults were few and far between, which was hardly a surprise given that virtually any home could be sold for more than had been borrowed against it.
 But that started to change in 2006. Some subprime loans -- a polite way of saying loans to people with poor credit -- defaulted soon after they were issued. The banking regulators, who had watched without action as the mortgage market heated up, finally put out guidelines aimed at restricting risky borrowing just as the market was turning lower. That could make it hard for homeowners under financial stress to refinance their existing home loans.
 With prices falling in some regions, home builders reported a surge of cancellations of purchase contracts. Housing starts plunged, and although starts showed a reassuring increase in November, newly issued permits to build new homes continued to decline.
 Oddly enough, rising home sales could be a bad sign in 2007, particularly if prices continue to sag. A surge in sales of existing homes could be an indication that people were being forced to sell, and that could have a depressing effect on purchases of other things. 
 In the past, when home prices fell, the number of homes sold also fell, as homeowners hung on to wait for good times to return. That could be harder this time, at least for those with mortgages that allow large increases in monthly payments.
 But even with housing in many areas of the United States on the ropes, much of the rest of the world seems to be humming along. There is strong economic growth in most of the developing world, and many commodities prices continue to be strong. 
 Still, it was in commodities that the perils of a liquidity-driven market were exposed. Crude oil ended the year at virtually the same level as a year earlier, but spot natural gas was down 44 percent. It is no coincidence that a bet on natural gas led to the most notable hedge fund blowup of the year. Reality, in the form of warmer weather and higher inventories than expected, sent prices plunging.
 No such disasters have befallen most other markets, and with earnings strong, perhaps they will be averted. Easy money is driving up asset prices, and that could continue in 2007.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustration by The New York Times)Chart: ''Rewarding Investors''Capital spending by companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 rose 3 percent in 2006, but remained below the levels of 1999 through 2001. Spending on stock buybacks leaped 25 percent, and for the first time exceeded capital spending.Chart tracks Capital spending and Stock buybacks since 1998. (Source by Standard & Poor's)(pg. C4)Chart: ''A Record for the Dow, but Not for Most of Its Stocks''The Dow Jones industrial average rose to a record high in 2006, but most of the stocks in the Dow did not. In fact, a larger percentage of stocks in the Standard & Poor's 100 and the Nasdaq 100 set new highs during the year, although neither index came close to breaking the record it had set in 2000.Dow IndustrialsCHANGE FROM PRE-2006 HIGH -- +6.3%PERCENT OF STOCKS REACHING NEW HIGH IN 2006 -- 27%PERCENT OF STOCKS WITH HIGHS SET IN 2000 OR EARLIER -- 63%S.&P. 100CHANGE FROM PRE-2006 HIGH -- -20.7PERCENT OF STOCKS REACHING NEW HIGH IN 2006 -- 40PERCENT OF STOCKS WITH HIGHS SET IN 2000 OR EARLIER -- 48Nasdaq 100CHANGE FROM PRE-2006 HIGH -- -62.7PERCENT OF STOCKS REACHING NEW HIGH IN 2006 -- 35PERCENT OF STOCKS WITH HIGHS SET IN 2000 OR EARLIER -- 47Winners (YEAR OF RECORD HIGH) PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM PRE-2006 HIGHS TO THE END OF 2006Dow IndustrialsBoeing ('06) -- +22.7Exxon Mobil ('06) -- +16.2American Express ('06) -- +10.0Altria ('06) -- + 9.1Procter & Gamble ('06) -- + 7.7United Technologies ('06) -- + 6.2Caterpillar ('06) -- + 2.4Citigroup ('06) -- + 1.3Johnson & Johnson ('05) -- - 5.7McDonald's ('99) -- -10.6S.&P. 100Allegheny Technologies ('06) -- +56.4Goldman Sachs ('06) -- +47.7Boeing ('06) -- +22.7Schlumberger ('06) -- +22.7General Dynamics ('06) -- +21.6Baker Hughes ('06) -- +18.3Lehman Brothers ('06) -- +17.3Entergy ('06) -- +16.5Merrill Lynch ('06) -- +16.4Exxon Mobil ('06) -- +16.2Nasdaq 100Celgene ('06) -- +76.0Garmin ('06) -- +57.5Cognizant Technology ('06) -- +47.1American Eagle Outfitters ('06) -- +37.5NII Holdings ('06) -- +33.6Research In Motion ('06) -- +23.4Wynn Resorts ('06) -- +22.8Paccar ('06) -- +19.6Sigma-Aldrich ('06) -- +15.8Joy Global ('06) -- +15.3Losers (YEAR OF RECORD HIGH) PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM PRE-2006 HIGHS TO THE END OF 2006Dow IndustrialsIntel ('00) -- -73.3General Motors ('00) -- -67.5Merck ('00) -- -52.4Microsoft ('99) -- -50.2Pfizer ('99) -- -48.2Coca Cola ('98) -- -45.7Verizon ('99) -- -44.4Home Depot ('00) -- -42.6DuPont ('98) -- -42.3AT&T ('99) -- -40.4S.&P. 100EMC ('00) -- -87.1Ford ('99) -- -79.9El Paso ('01) -- -79.7Time Warner ('99) -- -77.3Xerox ('99) -- -73.5Intel ('00) -- -73.3Eastman Kodak ('97) -- -72.8Sprint Nextel ('99) -- -72.6Texas Instruments ('00) -- -71.1AES ('00) -- -69.7Nasdaq 100Level 3 Communications ('00) -- -95.8Sirius Satellite Radio ('00) -- -94.9Juniper Networks ('00) -- -92.3Sun Microsystems ('00) -- -91.6VeriSign ('00) -- -90.7Tellabs ('99) -- -86.7BEA Systems ('00) -- -85.9Akamai ('00) -- -84.6Comverse Technology ('01) -- -83.1Broadcom ('00) -- -82.4(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Charts:The housing market plunged . . .Graph tracks Starts and building permits, by month. Change from 2005*.. . . but housing shares began to recover.Graph tracks Change in Bloomberg U.S. Homebuilders index from end of 2005.The yield curve sent a recession warning . . .Graph tracks Spread, in percentage points, between yields of 10-year and six-month Treasuries.. . . but junk bond spreads have narrowed.Graph tracks Difference in yield between BB-rated corporate bonds and 10-year Treasuries.*Housing starts and permit numbers are based on seasonally adjusted annual rates versus actual 2005 totals for single family homes.(Sources by Merrill Lynch
Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Haver Analytics)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); FUTURES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); YIELD CURVE (70%) Stocks and Bonds; Housing; Sales; Two Thousand Seven (Year); United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds; Two Thousand Seven (Year)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



16 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE YEAR AHEAD IN MARKETS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: Investors Greet New Year With Ambivalance

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and MARJORIE CONNELLY

 BODY:
Having enjoyed a year that was better than average in the stock market and a much weaker one in housing, home owners and investors appear neither exuberant nor glum about 2007.
 In fact, they are decidedly ambivalent, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. They are split, for instance, almost evenly on whether it is a good time to buy a new home or better to wait, even though a sizable majority expects home prices to stay steady or rise, especially in their neighborhoods.
The poll also showed that Americans had regained some faith in stocks as a safe investment since the market's crash in 2000, but they were less confident that stocks would rise next year than they were during the depths of the last bear market, in 2002.
 The telephone survey was conducted from Dec. 8 to 10 and included 922 adults nationwide and has a sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
 The seeming confusion and anxiety is not entirely new or limited to average Americans. Similar worries abounded in late 2005, when some economists and market experts predicted the nation's long housing boom would come to a screeching halt and inflict damage on the economy and the stock market.
 While home sales did plummet from record levels, the stock market rebounded to new heights after a brief stumble last summer. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index posted a 14 percent gain last year, its best showing since 2003. The American economy also put up stronger-than-expected performance as job growth and business investment made up for the faltering real estate market.
 Still, in follow-up interviews, several of those polled last month said that while they were confident about their personal financial positions, they were preparing themselves for tougher times by either changing their spending and investment patterns or by not taking as many risks.
 Christopher J. Pujol, an account manager at a pharmacy benefits company in Texas, said he planned to shift some of the assets in his 401(k) account to cash from stock-based mutual funds because he did not think the market would match its 2006 performance. ''The good times can't go on forever,'' he said. ''I take a conservative approach and take money off the table.''
 Mr. Pujol is not alone. Skeptical market experts have raised concerns about the durability of the recent rally. More broadly, economists are significantly divided about the outlook for the year, from the most pessimistic among them predicting a recession and the most optimistic saying economic growth could be so strong that it may force policy makers to resume raising interest rates to fight inflation.
 ''People seem to have a fairly balanced view about things,'' said Robert T. McGee, chief economist at U.S. Trust, who reviewed results of the poll. ''We have had a relatively strong housing boom and people recognize that is over, but at the same time the disappointment in stocks that occurred after 2000 and 2001 is dissipating some.''
 The poll is in line with other recent surveys that show Americans are slightly more cautious, even though most of them have stable employment and are seeing their paychecks increase, said Lynn Franco, director of the consumer research center at the Conference Board, which produces a widely followed consumer confidence index. ''Over all, it's this glass half-full/half-empty scenario,'' she said.
 Mr. Pujol, who lives in Keller, Tex., near Fort Worth, with his wife and their two young sons, thinks that the economy will moderate in 2007. The family bought a new home four years ago and is not planning to move but Mr. Pujol and his wife have other real estate investments in Texas that he thinks will fare better than property on the coasts.
 Mr. Pujol reflected the view of most Southerners, 57 percent of whom said local housing prices would increase in the coming year and the same number said it was a good time to buy a house. Only 47 percent of people surveyed nationally said it was a good time to buy a house and 45 percent said local prices would increase. The difference may reflect the relative strength of housing in Texas, on the Gulf Coast and in the Carolinas.
 Not surprisingly, home owners were also more upbeat on housing -- 52 percent said it was a good time to buy a home -- than renters, 60 percent of whom felt it would be better to wait. (Similarly, 65 percent of people who owned stocks or mutual funds said the stock market would go up next year compared with 39 percent of people who did not have investments.)
 Laura Koepnick, a lawyer for the state of Massachusetts, said she and her partner would like to move to a bigger home from their condo in Boston but think home prices may fall further still.
 ''It's more of a buyers market, but it has been so up and down that I am not comfortable making a huge investment at this time,'' said Ms. Koepnick, 36, who is still paying off law school loans and owns a mutual fund in a retirement account. 
 Darla K. Bundy, who works for the state of Pennsylvania, would also like to move but she faces an entirely different set of challenges. So many homes are on sale in Ridgway, the small industrial town two and a half hours northeast of Pittsburgh where she lives, that Ms. Bundy said she could not make as much as she and her husband, a welder, owe on the property.
 In 2001, Ms. Bundy lost an $18-an-hour job making specialty light bulbs for Sylvania when the company moved some production to Mexico. After taking a two-year computer training course paid for by the government, she has a $12-an-hour clerical job at the state transportation department.
 ''My husband and I would love to make financial investments to prepare for retirement,'' Ms. Bundy, 42, said. ''But to even take $20 out of our budget and put it somewhere else is unthinkable.''
 Like several other people, Ms. Bundy pointed to Sept. 11, 2001, as a critical turning point for her family -- she lost her job shortly before the attacks of that day and her husband has had a hard time finding work ever since.
 The brief recession that followed the technology bust in 2000 ended before the attacks of 2001, but many Americans view the attacks as an important historical marker in the nation's and their personal economic lives. That may be a function of the weak employment and wage growth that characterized the economic recovery from 2002 to 2004.
 The economy was ''pretty good until 9/11, and then it took a major dive,'' said Dawn E. Owsley, a 33-year-old who owns a spa business in Olympia, Wash. ''And then it picked up a little. But I feel that we have not yet caught up.''
 Over all, a majority, 52 percent, said they were making enough to pay bills and obligations and a sizable minority, 35 percent, said they earned enough to save and buy extras, while 12 percent said they did not make enough to meet their household expenses. By comparison, 17 percent of those who answered that question in early 2005 said they did not make enough, 48 percent said they did and 33 percent said they could save and buy extras.
 Most Americans, 71 percent, said if they had extra money to invest they would put it in real estate rather than stocks, which were favored by 22 percent of the respondents. By comparison, during the peak of the housing boom in the spring of 2005, an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that 80 percent preferred real estate and 13 percent stocks.
 Of those polled, 77 percent said they owned their own home and 21 percent said they rented. But only 44 percent said they owned stocks or mutual funds, down from 56 percent in the first half of 2000.
 That shift away from stock ownership is not surprising given that many investors are still smarting from the technology-led crash of 2000 and the two-year bear market that followed. And in spite of the recent rally, mutual fund flows indicate that investors remain skeptical of American stocks. As of Dec. 27, investors poured $15 billion into domestic equity funds in 2006, compared with $134 billion in nondomestic funds and $305 billion in money market funds, according to AMG Data Services.
 Edward A. Kellerhals, a retired municipal electrical inspector who lives near Fresno, Calif., said his investments in stocks and real estate had provided a comfortable retirement for him and his wife. Though he has long thought that land is a better investment than stocks, he became convinced that real estate prices in California had become outlandish when he and his wife were looking to buy a home at the end of 2005.
 ''This piece of junk we saw was selling for $300,000,'' Mr. Kellerhals, 76, said. ''The roof was leaking all over the place and there was a trailer with a caved-in roof in the back.''
 He has become more bullish on stocks, but says that at their age he and his wife ''don't buy much stock anymore.''
 ''We are just slowly going to sell it all,'' he said.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Dec. 8 through Dec. 10 with 922 adults throughout the United States.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
 Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. Shifts in results between polls also have a larger sampling error.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.
 Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/polls.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Darla K. Bundy and her husband, Dave, right, would like to prepare for retirement but she says their budget is too tight to divert the funds. (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''The Financial Mood''STOCKSThe view that stocks are a safe investment has rebounded slightly, but fewer people think the stock market will go up.Do you think of investment in the stock market as generally safe or risky?Graph tracks those that answered risky and safe, since 1998.In the next year or so, do you think the stock market will go up or down?Graph tracks those that answered that the marketwill go up and go down, since 1998.REAL ESTATEFewer people think now is a good time to buy a new house, but most think real estate prices will go up or stay the same in the area where they live.Is now a good time for most people to buy a new house, or would it be better to wait?Graph tracks those that answered that it's a good time to buy a home and that its better to wait, since 1992.What will happen to real estate prices in your area over the next year?Increasea lot -- 16%a little -- 28Stay the same -- 28Decreasea little -- 20a lot -- 6Current figures from nationwide telephone interviews conducted with 922 adults from Dec. 8 to Dec. 10 by The New York Times/CBS News Poll. Previous figures from similar earlier polls. Those with no opinion are not shown.(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BONDS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Surveys and Series; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Housing ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Personal Finances; Two Thousand Seven (Year); Public Opinion; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; Marjorie Connelly

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



17 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Auburn And Bowl Try to Find Their Place

BYLINE: By TOM SPOUSTA

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Forget poignant toasts or sappy resolutions for the new year. The Auburn Tigers were still living in the present and believed they needed to define this season once and for all. 
 Ranked as high as No. 2 in October, Auburn became the team with its face mask pressed against the Bowl Championship Series window after losses to Arkansas and Georgia derailed its national title and Southeastern Conference championship hopes.
 The 10th-ranked Tigers gained a sense of completion Monday with a 17-14 victory against No. 22 Nebraska in a Cotton Bowl game that itself has been searching for an identity and looking to regain a lost luster. 
 Auburn's absence of style points was symbolic of its season. The Tigers were manhandled for much of the first half, but they went into halftime with the score tied at 14-14. Linebacker Karibi Dede's 52-yard interception return and safety Tristan Davis's fumble recovery on a botched fake punt by Nebraska led to quick touchdowns, a 9-yard pass from Brandon Cox to Carl Stewart and Stewart's 1-yard run. 
 After John Vaughn kicked a 42-yard field goal with 6 minutes 20 seconds left in the third quarter to give Auburn a 3-point lead, the Tigers held firm to finish 11-2 and probably secure a top-10 final ranking. 
 Nebraska, playing in its biggest bowl since the 2002 Rose Bowl, fell to 9-5. 
 ''It was a typical Auburn win -- win ugly,'' Coach Tommy Tuberville said. ''We were lucky to be in the game after the first half.'' 
 Once among the bowl elite, the Cotton Bowl has clung to its Jan. 1 date but has dropped in status with the rise of the B.C.S. formulas and big-money matchups. 
 Even two programs with reputations for drawing big fan contingents to road games could not guarantee a full stadium here. The announced attendance was 66,777, about 1,500 shy of a sellout and the lowest since 63,465 attended the 2001 game between Kansas State and Tennessee. The Cotton Bowl seats 72,262, but officials cut short ticket sales by not opening four auxiliary bleacher sections (about 4,000 more seats).
 Judging by numerous patches of empty seats, several thousand tickets appeared to go unused, although Auburn and Nebraska said they sold their allotments of 12,500 tickets.
 ''We are what we are,'' said Bruce Gadd, the chairman of the board for the Cotton Bowl Athletic Association, adding he was somewhat disappointed the universities did not ask for more tickets.
 ''We're not a B.C.S. bowl. I can see how some folks would not want to travel down here.'' 
 He added: ''But it's about a lot of things other than just the number of people we have here. We're happy with the numbers.''
 Gadd said the Cotton Bowl wanted to crack the B.C.S. lineup, but that will probably have to wait until the current agreements expire after the 2010 season.
 ''I venture to guess we'll be back in the mix, whatever they're going to call the next revolution of postseason college football,'' Gadd said. ''I predict we'll be there. A couple years ago, I might not have said that because we were struggling. But we're headed in that direction.''
 Nebraska fans clearly outnumbered the Auburn crowd. The Cornhuskers fan Dave Bagenhost said more Nebraska fans would have come except for the 40-degree weather and the 10:30 a.m. local kickoff time.
 Bagenhost said that when Nebraska fans went to a bowl, ''they want the warm weather.'' 
 ''Dallas really doesn't have that to offer,'' he said. 
 George Castelman, a Dallas resident and ticket entrepreneur, has tried to sell tickets at three bowl games recently, and supply has exceeded demand each time. 
 At the Alamo Bowl in San Antonio, he said, tickets with a $65 face value were fetching $20 for the game last Saturday between Texas and Iowa. He received only about $10 for tickets priced at $35 for the Independence Bowl, which pitted Alabama against Oklahoma State last Thursday in Shreveport, La. 
 On Monday morning, Castelman stood at the entrance to the State Fair of Texas parking lot adjacent to the Cotton Bowl and tried to sell tickets with a $90 face value for $30 to $50. 
 ''It's the economy right now,'' Castelman said. ''People don't have money. People are tightening. Of course, you're going to get a segment of people that will always pay $200 for a 50-yard-line seat. But that's far in between. But the overall populace that attends these games, they can't afford to go.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); ATHLETES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (62%) Football; Cotton Bowl

ORGANIZATION: AUBURN UNIVERSITY (97%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); SOUTHEASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%) Auburn University; University of Nebraska

PERSON: Tom Spousta

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (57%) NEBRASKA, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (91%); SOUTHEAST USA (88%); KANSAS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



18 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: A Budget Official Shapes An Agency Into Relevance

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
She cautioned against diverting budget surpluses to increase spending, suggested some tax increases, warned how much the unpopular Fresh Kills landfill would cost to close and even raised the possibility of imposing tolls on the free East River bridges -- all issues that most politicians would shun.
 And yet, last month Ronnie Lowenstein was not only re-elected, but also won unanimously. 
''Winning an election with four votes is no small thing,'' she said.
 Ms. Lowenstein, a 55-year-old economist, was reappointed as director of New York City's Independent Budget Office. When the office was created 10 years ago, some city officials dismissed the position as another redundant municipal agency. But in the decade under Ms. Lowenstein's leadership, the office has proved itself, political leaders and nonprofit watchdog groups say.
 ''If there were any concerns that existed before, I think they have been dispelled,'' Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. said. ''An extra set of eyes is always helpful.''
 Ms. Lowenstein joined the office in 1996 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and in 2000 was named director to fill out her predecessor's unexpired term. Reappointed in 2002, she has just been named to a second four-year term by Mr. Thompson; Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum; Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker; and Helen M. Marshall of Queens on behalf of her fellow borough presidents.
 Ms. Lowenstein has sought to be scrupulously neutral, even switching her voter registration from Democrat to independent (which, she acknowledged, virtually disenfranchised her in her heavily Democratic Manhattan neighborhood).
 ''They don't have an ax to grind,'' said Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, an advocacy group, referring to the budget office staff.
 Ms. Lowenstein's hope has been to position the office as honest broker in the budget debate. The office has no policy-making role but provides nonpartisan budget, economic and policy analyses to elected officials and to New Yorkers. 
 ''It takes a long time to build credibility,'' she said. ''You're only as good as your last report.''
 ''The boring people like me thought we should be doing research that didn't take policy positions but just informed the debate,'' she said in an interview last week. ''Initially, we really didn't know who our audience was. We were so technical that we were virtually incomprehensible. It took us a long time to take sophisticated research and translate it in ways that made it accessible.''
 By most accounts, the office succeeded, in its published and Web site versions of reports, analyses of budget options and fiscal overview. After early challenges from the Giuliani administration, she said, relations with the Bloomberg administration ''have taken another quantum step forward.''
 ''I admit I was one of those people who said we don't need another fiscal monitor,'' she said. ''Our goal was to become everyone's first source for objective information on taxes and budget, and I think we've done that. We're able to take on a broader range of topics that an elected official just won't touch and lay out the alternatives. Even though we don't advocate for change, those are uncomfortable things to be saying if you're an elected official.''
 The City Charter guarantees the office at least 10 percent of the money allotted to the mayor's Office of Management and Budget. ''That has been a huge factor in keeping us independent,'' she said. ''We've never gotten a penny more than that.''
 She cited suggestions that with additional resources, her office might delve more into measuring municipal performance, perhaps even compiling the indicators that now constitute the mayor's periodic management report.
 ''If that were given to us, would we do it well? Yes,'' she said, but added in her typically noncommittal way, ''Does that mean it should be? Not necessarily.''
 Another of Ms. Lowenstein's goals is to make the municipal budget more transparent so government officials and citizens alike can easily determine how much the city is spending for, say, housing homeless women and how the amount compares with that of other periods.
 In 2007, she said, the challenge for the city will be how to deal with an embarrassment of riches, which can pose more challenges than a deficit because of pressures to cut taxes, increase spending or take less politically popular steps to reduce the city's long-term debt. 
 ''The city is in stronger fiscal shape than it has been for a long time,'' she said, ''but it would appear that longer term, those budget gaps haven't gone away. In the short term, the debate will be how to handle a surplus. It's often the most contentious.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronnie Lowenstein in her office. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CITIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LANDFILLS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (57%) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Independent Budget Office (NYC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: Sam Roberts; Ronnie Lowenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



19 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

U.S. Officials Urge Change In Limits on Iraqi Refugees
With thousands of Iraqis desperately fleeing their country every day, refugee advocates, and even some American officials, say there is an urgent need to change American policies limiting the number of Iraqis who may settle in the United States. A1

Further Steps to Curtail Iran 

The United States and its allies in Europe have a new plan to persuade foreign governments and financial institutions to cut ties with Iranian businesses, individuals in its nuclear and missile programs and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, said Stuart Levey, under secretary of the treasury for terrorism and financial intelligence. A3

European Union Adds Members
Romania and Bulgaria joined the European Union, helping to end geographic divisions left over from the cold war and extending the borders of the now 27-member bloc eastward to the Black Sea. A4

Somalia Asserts Shaky Order
After Somalia's Islamist forces abandoned their final outpost, the transitional government moved to assert control by setting a three-day deadline for all weapons to be turned in and calling for international peacekeeping troops to be sent immediately. A6

90 Killed in Indonesia Crash
Rescuers found the smoldering wreckage of an Indonesian jetliner that disappeared during a storm and crashed. Officials said 90 people were killed but 12 survived in the country's second disaster in days. A4

Suspects in Thailand Bombing
Thailand's military-backed government said it suspected that the New Years Eve bombings that killed 3 people and wounded 38 in Bangkok had been carried out by supporters of the ousted prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra. A6

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Banks' Hedge Fund Conflict
Regulators are concerned over the relationship between banks and hedge funds that lease space in their office buildings, questioning whether banks might be using the relationship as a way to entice hedge funds to do business with them, possibly at the expense of their investors. A1

Wal-Mart's Energy Initiative
Spurred by a sweeping commitment to reduce energy use across the country, Wal-Mart Stores is determined to sell energy saving light bulbs, known as compact fluorescent lamps, to at least 100 million American households. A1

Economic Forecast for 2007
Five years ago, the United States economy went through a recession that did virtually no damage to the housing market. In 2007, the question is whether the economy can emerge from a housing recession. C1

Business Digest C2

NATIONAL A10-15

Congress's Shift in Power Revives Medicare Debate
House Democrats will try to rush through legislation requiring the government to negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries and overturning President Bush's restrictions on embryonic stem cell research. A10

Divergent Views in Congress
Divergent mindsets over how best to fulfill the Democratic promise to clean up the House illustrate what could be one of the points of friction in the new Congress as Democrats take control after 12 years. A14

Reunion of Ford's Team
On the morning of President Gerald R. Ford's funeral, his former cabinet secretaries and administration staff members will come together in Washington once more, where for more than two decades they had gathered at Mr. Ford's annual White House reunions. A15

Henry A. Kissinger, former secretary of state to Presidents Ford and Richard M. Nixon, is expected to be among a select few to eulogize Mr. Ford at services at Washington National Cathedral. A15

The Future of Jeb Bush
Gov. Jeb Bush has ruled out a presidential campaign, yet rumors have circulated that he would run for Senate or become Senator John McCain's running mate if Mr. McCain won the Republican nomination for president in 2008. A10

Houston Murder Rate Rises
Homicides last year in Houston hit a 12-year high, and the city's mayor attributed the rise partly to evacuees from Hurricane Katrina. A11

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Debate Over Free Will
A number of experiments in recent years suggest that the conscious mind is an illusion. As a result, physicists, neuroscientists and computer scientists have joined in arguing about what free will is and whether we have it. F1

Health & Fitness F5

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Spitzer Pledges Reform In Inaugural Speech
Eliot L. Spitzer ended 12 years of Republican rule in Albany with a blunt critique of the past during his inaugural speech as governor. He pledged to undertake reforms ''substantial in size and historic in scope'' and hinted at battles to come, including plans to reshape state Medicaid and ethics policies. A1

Libraries Combat Unruliness
Librarians frustrated by middle schoolers' mix of pent-up energy and nascent independence are taking stricter stances toward unruly adolescents. Librarians and experts say the growing conflicts are the result of an increase in the number of latchkey children, a decrease in civility among young people and a dearth of places where kids can be kids. A1

Helping Inmates Stay Free
The Corrections Department has begun offering newly released Rikers Island inmates a ride directly to job sites or aftercare programs sponsored by nonprofits. But while many adults embrace the opportunity, the response from young inmates has been lukewarm, and many -- even those returning repeatedly to jail -- prefer to fend for themselves. B3

Neediest Cases B6

ARTS E1-10

Escapism at the Box Office
A year after Hollywood rediscovered weighty political and social issues in movies like ''Syriana,'' ''Crash'' and ''Brokeback Mountain,'' the box office story of 2006 was that moviegoers finally said, ''Enough.'' Comedy, animation and adventure, all with a PG-13 rating or tamer were the escapist recipe for success. E1

OBITUARIES B7

Sydney Charles Wooderson
One of the most versatile middle-distance runners of the 1930s and 40s who held the world record for the mile and whose athletic career was interrupted in its prime by World War II, he was 92. B7

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Mr. Wolfowitz and the bank; holding the line; something to tide you over; Adam Cohen on the food industry ''Jungle.''

Column: Orlando Patterson.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Weather A12

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MEDICARE (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); HOUSING MARKET (64%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (94%); SOMALIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BULGARIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ROMANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



20 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Romania and Bulgaria Celebrate Entry Into European Union

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Romania and Bulgaria joined the European Union on Monday, helping to end geographic divisions left over from the cold war and extending the borders of the now 27-member bloc eastward to the Black Sea.
 In Bucharest, Romania, President Traian Basescu said Sunday night that the entry into the European Union signaled the end of a painful 17-year process. ''We arrived in Europe, welcome to Europe,'' he said to rapturous applause from a crowd in University Square. ''This is an enormous chance for new generations.''
 In Sofia, the Bulgarian capital, revelers gathered in Battenberg Square. Fireworks filled the sky over the building where the Communist Party once had its headquarters. ''We are home!'' said a headline in the Bulgarian newspaper Trud. 
 Romania and Bulgaria, now the European Union's poorest members, hope that membership will help them raise their per capita wealth, which is one-third of the Union average. Their accession, the second wave of enlargement into formerly Communist Eastern Europe, will also give the Union a stable political and economic anchor in an unstable region.
 Romania, with a population of about 22 million, becomes the European Union's seventh largest member. Bulgaria has a population of 7.7 million.
 For Romania, which suffered one of Eastern Europe's most brutal Communist dictatorships under Nicolae Ceausescu before he was overthrown in 1989, being moored to the European Union is an important symbolic final break with a difficult past. For Bulgaria, whose history is marked by conflicts with the Ottoman Empire and Soviet occupation, European membership is also viewed as a source of economic and democratic stability.
 The European Union has been experiencing expansion fatigue, though, after the bloc's enlargement in May 2004 to 25 countries from 15. With the latest additions, the Union has a population of nearly 489 million. 
 Some members, like France, are concerned that the addition of member nations with much lower per capita incomes, the European Union will become economically overburdened, institutionally unwieldy and ultimately unmanageable. They fear that expansion will diminish their power while paralyzing the European Union's decision-making process. 
 Wariness about the future shape of the Union was reflected in French and Dutch rejections of a proposed European constitution in referendums in 2005. Since then, there have been calls across the bloc for a slowing of the pace of enlargement.
 Such ambivalence, stoked by fears of immigration and Europe's lackluster economic performance, has been most prominently expressed in opposition to admitting Turkey, which is Muslim. It has also cast a shadow over the admission of Romania and Bulgaria, which have been criticized for corruption that has lingered since Communist times.
 Some countries, though, led by Britain, with the enthusiastic backing of the United States, have supported further expansion because the promise of membership has helped accelerate economic and political change in Europe, ranging from the arrest of war criminals in Croatia to the liberalization of Turkey's banking industry.
 The cautious approach to further expansion was reflected in the tough conditions imposed on Romania and Bulgaria for entry.
 Even now that they are in the Union, the two countries will be subject to unprecedented safeguards devised to keep them from backtracking. They include the power by the European Commission, the union's executive, to suspend some of the rights that come with membership, like generous economic aid.
 The commission has also threatened to suspend recognition of arrest warrants and decisions made by Bulgarian courts if the country does not improve its judicial system.
 Romania expects to receive as much as $ 2.2 billion in the first year after entry, while Bulgaria would be entitled to $873 million.
 The European Union has been grappling with fears that westward migration from its poorer members in the east risks undermining the bloc's social standards. 
 At the time of the last enlargement, in May 2004, the European Commission estimated that the number of migrants throughout the bloc would total 70,000 to 150,000 a year. But Britain alone is estimated to have received up to 600,000 in the past three years.
 Britain, Sweden and Ireland, which opened their doors to European Union newcomers in 2004, have already signaled that they are less inclined to do so now. Romanians and Bulgarians may also face obstacles in labor markets in Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, which are themselves confronting restrictions by countries further west.
 At a recent meeting in Brussels, European leaders toughened their tone on enlargement but stopped short of setting new hurdles to expansion. They reaffirmed backing for the eventual membership of Turkey, Albania, Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers in Sofia, Bulgaria's capital, carried the European Union flag yesterday in a ceremony observing the country's entrance into the bloc. (Photo by Vassil Doney/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); COLD WAR (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); TRENDS (61%); CORRUPTION (60%); REFERENDUMS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) European Union

PERSON: Dan Bilefsky

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%) EUROPE (99%); ROMANIA (96%); BULGARIA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); TURKEY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (74%) Romania; Bulgaria; Romania

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



21 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Wolfowitz and the Bank

 BODY:
When Paul Wolfowitz speaks publicly these days, he is usually making good sense. The head of the World Bank (formerly No. 2 at the Pentagon) has criticized Chinese banks for ignoring environmental and human rights standards when they lend to Africa, told the White House it needs to do more to alleviate African poverty, and has vowed that corrupt officials won't be allowed to siphon off money from projects that are supposed to benefit the poor. 
 So why do so many people at the bank mistrust him -- including many of the leading shareholders? At last fall's annual meeting, European ministers insisted that the bank's board would oversee Mr. Wolfowitz's anticorruption program, to ensure that no country was punished arbitrarily.
 That is not a vote of confidence and not a healthy state of affairs. Mr. Wolfowitz needs to figure out how to earn more than just the Bush administration's trust. 
 Some of his critics will never forgive him for championing the disastrous Iraq war. But he has compounded their suspicions, surrounding himself with a tight group of former Bush administration officials who -- true to their roots -- have little patience for explaining themselves and even less for criticism.
 Mr. Wolfowitz and his aides did an especially poor job explaining their decisions to suspend or delay hundreds of millions of dollars in loans because of alleged corruption, feeding fears that they were settling scores. When Hilary Benn, Britain's top aid official, publicly questioned bank policies, an unidentified senior bank official dismissed Mr. Benn to The Financial Times as ''an ambitious political climber.'' That's no way to win friends or donors. Mr. Wolfowitz wrote to the paper to say that was not his view and has since visited London to patch things up, but relations remain cool. 
 Mr. Wolfowitz has yet to outline a broader vision for the bank, which might inspire his staff and rally international support. There are certainly a host of issues that need his leadership. The bank needs to give more of a voice to less wealthy and poor countries. It needs to find new ways to mobilize private sector financing. And it needs to get more deeply -- and more systematically -- involved in addressing global challenges like epidemics, sustainable energy and post-conflict reconstruction.
 Mr. Wolfowitz deserves praise for championing debt relief for the world's poorest countries. And he is right that the bank needs to do a lot more to fight corruption, which can cripple any development effort. To be heard on these subjects, Mr. Wolfowitz will have to work harder to earn the trust of his staff, his shareholders and everyone who cares about development. He needs a more inclusive management style and a more diplomatic inner circle, and to articulate broader goals beyond stopping corruption. That way he would have the credibility to fight the good fight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: Paul D Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



22 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: The Deep Blue Highway

BYLINE: By John Curtis Perry, Scott Borgerson and Rockford Weitz. 
John Curtis Perry is the director of the maritime studies program at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. Scott Borgerson is a recent graduate and Rockford Weitz is a Ph.D. candidate there.

DATELINE: MEDFORD, Mass. 

 BODY:
IN October President Bush signed the Safe Port Act, authorizing an investment of $6.7 billion to tighten security at American ports. This is a vitally important and overdue step. But it ignores another major problem in maritime commerce: the phenomenal decline of American shipping.
 While it's true that the United States Navy still dominates the world ocean -- its total tonnage equals the combined tonnage of the next 17 smaller navies -- American commercial shipping is but a puny remnant of its former self. 
In 1948, more than a third of the world's merchant fleet flew the stars and stripes; today that figure is down to 2 percent. Half a century ago, America built more ships than any other nation, and New York City could boast that it was the world's busiest seaport. Sliding from the top since the 1980s, New York now barely ranks among the top 20.
 The only American port now on the top-10 list is Los Angeles-Long Beach, an indication of how much maritime trade has shifted from the North Atlantic to the North Pacific.
 A major factor in the decline of American shipping has been an antiquated law that prevents American coastal shippers from buying ships made in other countries. By amending this law and, at the same time, encouraging the development of domestic coastal shipping, Congress could help restore America's status as a great and proud maritime nation.
 The slump in American shipping is especially surprising when you consider that it was American entrepreneurs who, in the mid-20th century, revolutionized oceanic transport by creating both the standard-size steel shipping container and the supership capable of transporting 50 times as much cargo as a World War II-era merchant ship could.
 Shipping has always been the most economically efficient way to carry goods from place to place; it requires no investment in highways or rails, and thanks to the relatively frictionless ease with which ships move across water, fuel costs per ton are low. The arrival of containerized shipping pushed transport costs even lower, swelling world trade and expanding global wealth.
 The export-driven economies of Pacific Asia built much of their enormous success upon the new maritime technologies. The United States did not. The Merchant Marine Acts of the 1920s and '30s are one reason why.
 Intended to protect the domestic shipbuilding industry, the acts decreed that the only ships allowed to call on two or more consecutive American ports would be those built in the United States, owned by American companies, flying the American flag and operated by American crews. 
 At the time, the United States still had a large merchant marine. But the acts' restrictions handicapped coastal shipping within American waters, opening the way for the growth of the trucking and freight-rail industries.
 To revive the maritime trade, Congress should give shipping companies as much choice in buying ships as their land-based rivals have when buying trucks and train cars. 
 Freed from the restraints of the Merchant Marine Acts, commercial shippers could not only begin to resume their position in global trade but also handle much more of the freight that moves within our borders. Before railroads and highways were developed, a network of water transportation routes connected America's port cities and towns. Today coastal shipping handles only 2 percent of domestic freight, even though coastal counties hold more than half of the nation's population.
 The trucks that carry nearly a third of our cargo clog the highways. That is one reason why Americans now lose at least 3.7 billion hours and 2.3 billion gallons of fuel each year sitting in traffic. Ships could take on a larger share of this freight -- and even some of the passengers now traveling by highway and rail -- and carry it at lower cost.
 Congress could further encourage domestic shipping by improving port facilities, just as it maintains interstate highways. And it could invest in developing ship propulsion technologies -- to increase still further maritime savings in fuel costs and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
 Americans are rightfully concerned about security, but part of protecting the nation is generating a strong economy. Revitalized coastal shipping could shorten our morning commutes as it begins to rejuvenate America's wider maritime economy.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Jan. 2, about coastal shipping, misstated a provision of the Merchant Marine Acts. The acts bar non-American ships from loading and unloading merchandise at consecutive American ports; they do not prevent such ships from calling on consecutive ports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (91%); MARINE SHIPPING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVIES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SHIPBUILDING (75%); CONTAINERIZATION (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); RAIL FREIGHT (72%); OCEANS (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%) Ships and Shipping ; Law and Legislation; Ports; Security and Warning Systems; Ships and Shipping 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) John Curtis Perry; Scott Borgerson; Rockford Weitz

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



23 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Moving In, With Big Plans to Remake State Government

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Last month, New York State's top fiscal officer pleaded guilty to defrauding the government and resigned, its Senate majority leader announced that he was being investigated by the F.B.I., and a state senator was charged with diverting state aid from a children's charity to his own private cigar label. 
 If Gov. Eliot Spitzer could already claim a strong mandate for his calls to make significant changes in the culture of Albany, thanks to the record-setting 69 percent of the vote that he won in November, the scandals that engulfed the capital last month while he was waiting in the wings as governor-elect have only strengthened his hand. 
But it was clear, as Mr. Spitzer delivered his inaugural address on Monday that despite his campaign pledge that ''Day 1, Everything Changes,'' many things in Albany, a famously change-averse place, remain stubbornly the same. 
 Sitting right in front of Mr. Spitzer, and not always looking very pleased, were two of the three men who have controlled the Capitol during its years of political gridlock: Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno. 
 And New York is still facing the challenges that have bedeviled its last few governors: a deeply depressed upstate economy, struggling schools and mounting health care costs, some of the highest taxes in the nation, and a state government that has been seemingly unable to tackle many of these problems because of its chronic dysfunction.
 Enter Mr. Spitzer, vowing change and calling his election a mandate. 
 ''We chose pragmatism and ethics over partisan politics and dysfunction, and we demanded an end to gridlock,'' Mr. Spitzer told the crowd in his inaugural address, winning loud applause from the audience, but stony silence from Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver, who looked on impassively from their seats in the front row on the stage. 
 But the collision of three very different scandals last month, coming just as a reform-minded governor was about to take office, is posing the greatest threat in decades to the culture of a state capital that critics say has increasingly fallen under the spell of lobbyists, campaign donors and lawmakers who put their political survival first. 
 Mr. Bruno is enmeshed in a widening criminal investigation into his business ties to people seeking state money or actions.
 An important ally of Mr. Spitzer's, State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, resigned in disgrace after admitting to using a state worker as a personal aide for his wife. And federal prosecutors are showing a newfound zeal for taking on corruption in Albany with the indictment of a state senator for what they called an abuse of a hallowed Albany tradition: pork-barrel spending.
 Taken together, the three scandals make it much harder to argue for maintaining the status quo here. And Mr. Spitzer made it clear in his inaugural that he intends to keep pushing for changes. 
 ''In order to return to the policies of opportunity and prosperity,'' the new governor said, ''we must change the ethics of Albany and end the politics of cynicism and division in our state.'' 
 If history is any guide, Mr. Spitzer will be successful in pushing through some of his reforms and programs, as other governors have been able to seize on crises to enact ambitious changes. And many set the tone at their inaugurations. 
 More than a century ago, Theodore Roosevelt warned when he was inaugurated governor that ''it is absolutely impossible for a republic long to endure if it becomes either corrupt or cowardly.'' He went on to overhaul the civil service laws.
 More recently, Hugh L. Carey said in his first State of the State address in 1975 that ''the times of plenty, the days of wine and roses, are over'' before shepherding New York City through its fiscal crisis. When Mario M. Cuomo evoked the ''family of New York'' at his inauguration in 1983, he offered a liberal alternative to the conservative ideology of the Reagan era. And George E. Pataki spoke of ''the revolutionary spirit of Saratoga,'' a turning point in the American Revolution, to call for smaller government at his inaugural, before pushing spending and tax cuts through a skeptical Assembly. 
 Governor Spitzer is making the case that the Capitol must clean itself up if it is to successfully address the challenges the state faces in educating its children, providing health care for the uninsured, shoring up the desperate upstate economy and holding on to businesses and residents burdened by some of the highest taxes in the country. 
 With last month's scandals, there have now been at least 10 state lawmakers who have been investigated, indicted or convicted in recent years. Assemblyman Brian M. McLaughlin, a Queens Democrat, was accused last year of illegally obtaining $2.2 million, and even charged with making an aide take his E-ZPass to Albany to make it appear that he had gone to the Capitol so he could bill the state for the daily allowances that lawmakers get when they are in session. And Assemblywoman Diane M. Gordon was overwhelmingly re-elected in November even though she was charged in July with seeking bribes -- in the form of a house -- from a developer seeking city land. 
 Some of Mr. Spitzer's proposals -- adding teeth to the state's ethics laws, overhauling its lax campaign finance laws, ending the gerrymandering that has long insulated lawmakers from competitive elections -- will be a tough sell in a Legislature that is all about protecting its incumbents. But the recent spate of bad news out of Albany -- where swapping rumors about subpoenas has supplanted the usual political chitchat -- had been good news for Mr. Spitzer, giving an added sense of urgency to his proposals. 
 Mr. Spitzer's pitch on Monday was that a more ethical, accountable government would lead to better policies. ''Some public officials may not want to face stricter ethics rules and more competitive elections,'' he said, ''but all citizens will win when we finally get a government that puts the people's interests, openness and integrity first.''
 Bruce N. Gyory, a lawyer, lobbyist and student of New York political history who attended the speech, said Mr. Spitzer seemed to be calling for the kind of purposeful reform that will lead to new policies, in the mold of the changes that Alfred E. Smith pushed through as governor.
 ''He poured a very good foundation,'' Mr. Gyory said of the speech. ''Now the question becomes: Will he be able to match today's excellent start with the governmental architecture and the political pillars to sustain what he's trying to do?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader
Malcolm A. Smith, the minority leader, and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
TAKING THE OATH -- From top: Gov. Eliot Spitzer, his wife, Silda, and Robert W. Sweet, a federal judge
Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson with his wife, Michelle, and son, Alex
and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, his daughter Cara, his father, Mario M. Cuomo, and Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Tim Roske/Associated Press)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); ETHICS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CHARITIES (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (65%) Inaugurations; Governors (US); Ethics

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%); ANDREW CUOMO (73%); DAVID PATERSON (58%) Michael Cooper; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



24 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Jeb Bush Ponders Future, Not Knowing What It Holds

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
When the same old irksome question popped up recently at one of his final public events here, Gov. Jeb Bush, addressing Spanish-speaking reporters, gave an atypically dramatic answer: ''Yo no tengo futuro,'' or ''I have no future.''
 His words set off round-the-world buzz, with The Daily Telegraph of London going so far as to call them ''a recognition by the Bush family that their dynastic reign in American politics is drawing to a close.''
But in fact, the question lives on. Mr. Bush's spokeswoman said last week that he made the comment jokingly, and when asked about it later in an e-mail message, Mr. Bush himself replied, ''I was misunderstood by a reporter.''
 He did not elaborate, leaving the world to know only this much: Half his life after he arrived in Miami as a 27-year-old real estate salesman, Governor Bush returns here this week without the title before his name and, he insists, without knowing what his future holds. 
 ''We're in the preface of the new book in my life and I just don't know yet,'' he told reporters last month in Tallahassee, a day after his official portrait, with a Bible and a BlackBerry in the background, was unveiled at the Governor's Mansion. ''I'm going to take some time off, hopefully do a little fishing, golfing, resting, reading, exercising. And I've got to make a living, so I'll figure it out probably in January.''
 Florida, too, has some readjusting to do. After eight years in office, Mr. Bush, 53, is leaving as one of the most popular and prominent governors in state history, not least because of his relationship to President Bush (brother) and former President George Bush (son). Succeeding him is Attorney General Charlie Crist, who is Republican like Mr. Bush but otherwise starkly different.
 Despite the wishful prodding of admirers, Mr. Bush has adamantly ruled out a presidential campaign of his own next year, saying that he wants only to return to Miami with his wife, Columba, and their cat, Sugar. Yet rumors about his future have burst forth as regularly as exotic species in the Everglades -- among them that he would be the next commissioner of the National Football League, run for Senate or become Senator John McCain's running mate if Mr. McCain won the Republican nomination for president in 2008. 
 ''The presidency is out of the question at this point because of Bush fatigue,'' said Peter Schweizer, a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford who wrote ''The Bushes: A Dynasty'' with his wife, Rochelle. ''But the vice presidential slot is something that's very much in play. He's a successful governor of an important state, he helps shore up relations with the social conservatives and he has the Bush money machine.''
 One of Mr. Bush's former chiefs of staff has gone to work for Mr. McCain's exploratory committee, but several other former aides have signed up with Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, another probable Republican contender. 
 ''Jeb is a policy-driven guy,'' Mr. Schweizer said. ''If he can be a vice president that plays some kind of a policy role as Cheney has, as Gore did in the Clinton administration, then Jeb Bush will be interested.''
 Many assume that for now -- at least partly at the urging of his wife, described as shy and eager to be out of the public eye -- Mr. Bush will return to the private sector. He reported a net worth of $1.4 million in 2005, down from $2.4 million in 1998.
 He was a partner in a major real estate development firm here until his first, unsuccessful run for governor in 1994, but Mr. Schweizer predicted that Mr. Bush might now seek out work involving the bioscience industry or the Latin American economy, both of which ''he seems particularly animated by.''
 All indications notwithstanding, ardent admirers like Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, are not giving up on the prospect of Mr. Bush jumping into the presidential race next year, especially if Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York becomes the Democratic candidate. 
 ''He could step in later than anybody else,'' Mr. Norquist said. ''You can run for president with the last name of Bush, even though there is and will be Bush fatigue, in a year that you're likely to be running against someone whose last name is Clinton.'' 
 For the time being, Mr. Bush bought a car, a Chrysler 300C, and rented a $5,500-per-month, 3,949-square-foot condominium in Segovia Tower, a luxury building overlooking a golf course in lush Coral Gables.
 ''I have no idea what I will be doing next,'' he wrote by e-mail from Boca Chica, Fla., where he was vacationing with his parents. ''My priorities are to hang out with my beloved wife (until she can't take it anymore! :)), work out every day and figure out what I will do next with my life.''
 As for the continued speculation, he wrote: ''I am flattered that all sorts of people are interested in what I am going to do and many have offered advice as well. That will all subside soon.''
 Small signs suggest, however, that he will have a hard time giving up executive powers. He told reporters that while buying furniture recently, he had to stifle the urge to tell the store owner a better way of doing business -- a trait his adversaries say they will not miss.
 ''Bush was the type that if you did not agree with him, he really didn't have time for you,'' said State Senator Frederica Wilson, Democrat of Miami. ''He wanted you to rubber stamp every idea he had, and he wouldn't listen to reason.'' 
 While Mr. Bush is internationally famous, Mr. Crist, who will be sworn in as governor on Tuesday, is a stranger to all outside Florida and, but for his native Tampa Bay region, not particularly well known within the state either. While Mr. Bush was ideologically driven, often making enemies in pursuit of ''big, hairy, audacious goals'' and divisive social policies, Mr. Crist seems above all a pleaser, avoiding firm opinions and promising to be ''the people's governor.''
 Yet despite Mr. Bush's abrasiveness and the plunging popularity of his brother the president, he has remained well liked -- or at least respected -- to the end, a feat in a state as ethnically and politically divided as Florida. A poll last month by Quinnipiac University found that 57 percent of Floridians feel he did a ''good'' or ''great'' job as governor, compared with only 10 percent who said he had done a ''bad'' job.
 Howard Simon, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida, said the poll results reflected approval of Mr. Bush's persona more than of his policies. Mr. Simon pointed out that two major education initiatives during the governor's tenure -- a costly effort to lower class size and another to provide universal prekindergarten classes -- were passed by public referendum, over the governor's objections.
 ''It needs to be said that the personal appeal and likeability of Jeb Bush has led the press and the public to overlook the extremism of many of his policies,'' he said.
 Several of Mr. Bush's pet initiatives in fact failed, including a school voucher program that the Florida Supreme Court found unconstitutional.
 But Mr. Bush pushed through $19.3 billion in tax cuts, put an unprecedented emphasis on standardized testing in public schools, privatized thousands of government jobs and ended affirmative action in public university admissions. He also persuaded the Scripps Research Institute and other bioscience research groups to open laboratories in Florida, which he says will makethe state economy less dependent on tourism and create more high-paying jobs.
 And he has appointed more than a third of the state's judges, assuring that his socially and fiscally conservative beliefs will continue to hold some sway. 
 While others have emoted about Mr. Bush's departure -- including his father, who wept as he described his second son's ''decency'' and ''honor'' in a speech in Tallahassee last month -- he has characteristically avoided introspection. Asked last month what he would miss most about the Governor's Mansion, he cited its beauty, its staff -- and its towels.
 ''Fresh towels -- all you want,'' he said. ''Here, although I've been trained to do otherwise, it's just any time I want I can have many towels.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Governor Bush with his father, former President George Bush, last week in Boca Grande, Fla. (Photo by Armando Solares/Associated Press)
 President Bush hugging his brother Jeb, right, after a campaign rally in Florida the day before the 2004 presidential election. (Photo by Mandel Ngan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (85%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); POLITICS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); CATS (60%); GOLF (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Presidential Election of 2008

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (54%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (54%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); CHARLIE CRIST (58%) Abby Goodnough; Jeb (Gov) Bush; John S (Sen) Mccain; Mitt (Gov) Romney

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



25 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: SPITZER IS SWORN AND BEGINS PUSH ON ETHICS RULES 

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
Eliot Spitzer ended 12 years of Republican rule here on Monday with a blunt critique of the past and a call to ''end the politics of cynicism and division in our state.''
 With his predecessor, George E. Pataki, gamely looking on, Governor Spitzer said in his 20-minute inaugural address that New York, ''like Rip van Winkle,'' had ''slept through much of the past decade.'' He pledged to undertake reforms ''substantial in size and historic in scope'' and hinted at some of the contentious battles to come, including his plans to reshape state Medicaid and ethics policies.
The speech was the beginning salvo in what many see as a gargantuan challenge Mr. Spitzer has set out for himself -- to overhaul a state government paralyzed by gridlock and consumed by recurring scandals. [News analysis, Page B1.]
 Yet Mr. Spitzer's work began hours before the speech: He signed five executive orders before 9 a.m., including directives establishing new ethical guidelines for state workers, among them a ban on accepting almost any gifts, as well as new restrictions on lobbying and the use of state resources. He also barred elected officials or candidates from appearing in advertisements paid for by state entities, a frequent practice of Mr. Pataki. 
 In his speech, Mr. Spitzer, 47, laid out what he said were ''two overarching objectives'': making the government ''ethical and wise,'' and rebuilding the economy. He has said that addressing the struggling upstate economy would be a particular priority, but acknowledged the difficulty in reviving regions like the Buffalo area that have seen an exodus of manufacturing jobs.
 The speech capped a whirlwind day in which the new governor took the official oath of office at midnight and, after sleeping about three hours, arose for a two-mile run through a chilly Albany rain. The rain stopped before the inauguration, though temperatures stayed in the 40s. After his 1 p.m. address, he revived an Albany tradition by opening the Executive Mansion to the public, and he and his wife, Silda Wall Spitzer, received 1,200 well-wishers. The inaugural speech was itself a break with tradition in that it was held outdoors, with Mr. Spitzer clad in a suit but no overcoat for the hourlong ceremony.
 The change of leadership seemed to electrify a capital that has had Mr. Pataki as its governor for the last 12 years. Democrats were elated at the prospect of being at the seat of power for the first time since Mario M. Cuomo was voted out of office in 1994, while Republicans feared that Mr. Spitzer's ascension could weaken their already tenuous hold on the State Senate, their only redoubt of power. Lobbyists, gathering for the legislative session that begins this week, worried about how the new power structure would affect their work. 
 Hovering over the inauguration was the fallout from the ethical scandals that have enveloped Albany. Only three of the four statewide officials elected in November took their oaths, because the comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, resigned late last month and pleaded guilty to a felony after admitting to using state workers to chauffeur and act as companions for his ailing wife. 
 One of Mr. Spitzer's executive orders, prohibiting the use of state property, including vehicles, computers and telephones, for nonofficial business, seemed aimed at curbing such behavior. The order said that individuals authorized by their agency to use a vehicle for personal purposes ''shall keep records of such use, and the value of such personal use shall be calculated and reported as personal income.''
 In his address, Mr. Spitzer said, ''Over the last decade, we have seen what can happen when our government stands still in the face of great challenge.''
 ''Today is the day when all of that changes,'' he added.
 His pointed attacks on Albany's problems ruffled some Republican feathers. 
 Asked about the Rip Van Winkle line specifically, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, now the state's top Republican, said, ''I don't agree with that.''
 ''I think history will judge the last 12 years, with this governor that's exiting, to have been one of the most productive 12 years for the people of New York State,'' he said. ''And history will judge that -- not rhetoric.''
 Mr. Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, have essentially been running the state with Mr. Pataki for the last decade. Mr. Silver, for his part, said he took no offense, adding, ''I think it was very clear that his references were to the prior administration.''
 The new governor began the new year at the Executive Mansion, where he was sworn in at midnight by Judge Robert W. Sweet of Federal District Court in Manhattan. Mr. Spitzer was once a clerk for Judge Sweet, who also swore him in later at the public inauguration. 
 Most of the major political figures in the state were present at the afternoon ceremony, including Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and much of the state's Congressional delegation. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton was in Washington attending memorial services for former President Gerald R. Ford. After Mr. Spitzer's speech, Judy Collins sang ''This Little Light of Mine,'' a song that had been used in one of Mr. Spitzer's political ads during the campaign.
 Further symbolizing the return of Democratic rule was the swearing-in of Andrew M. Cuomo as attorney general to replace Mr. Spitzer. His father, the former governor, was by his side. David A. Paterson was sworn in as lieutenant governor, the first African-American to hold the post. 
 The new attorney general signaled that he, too, would begin moving to confront the ethical challenges in the capital, as Mr. Cuomo planned meetings Tuesday with the Albany Country district attorney, P. David Soares, who prosecuted Mr. Hevesi, and David Grandeau, the head of the state's Lobbying Commission. 
 All in all, it was a day characterized by a rush of activity in a capital where Mr. Pataki had been increasingly invisible. 
 In signing his executive orders, Mr. Spitzer said he was fulfilling a promise ''that one of the first acts I would take as governor, officially, was to put in place a series of ethics guidelines and strictures that would begin the process of restoring government to what it should be, which is responsive, open, transparent, available to the public.
 ''I am hoping that others in other branches will join me in this,'' he added. 
 Mr. Spitzer prohibited nepotism in hiring and contracting, and barred former state workers from lobbying the agency or authority where they worked for two years after their departure. State employment officials were also barred from asking job candidates about their party affiliation.
 Mr. Spitzer also prohibited state workers from making contributions to the campaigns of the governor or lieutenant governor, or affiliated political action committees. 
 ''I do not believe it looks proper for individuals who work for the governor, the lieutenant governor, to be making contributions,'' Mr. Spitzer said, adding, ''the appearance might be that they have been expected to do so, or it is a condition of employment. None of that should exist.'' 
 He signed the orders on a desk once used by Theodore Roosevelt, in a room of the mansion known as the History Room, which also displays a wheelchair used by Franklin D. Roosevelt.
 After Mr. Spitzer finished and had answered some questions, he strode out of the room, but he and his wife quickly came back after his dogs Jesse, a bichon frise, and James, a wheaten terrier, bolted in and began barking at reporters, one of several appearances the dogs made throughout the day. 
 In his inaugural address, attempting to outline his political philosophy, Mr. Spitzer called for New York to ''embrace a progressive vision of government once more, one that upholds the values of individuality and community; of entrepreneurship and opportunity; of responsibility and fairness.'' 
 ''No one any longer believes in government as a heavy hand that can cure all our ills,'' he said, ''but rather we see it as a lean and responsive force that can make possible the pursuit of prosperity and opportunity for all, by softening life's blows, leveling its playing field and making possible the pursuit of happiness that is our God-given right.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eliot Spitzer climbed the Capitol steps with his wife, Silda Wall Spitzer, as his predecessor, George E. Pataki, waited at the top with his wife, Libby. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer, in his inaugural address yesterday, vowed to elevate the economy and ethical standards. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MEDICAID (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%) Governors (US); Inaugurations; Ethics; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Gifts; Advertising and Marketing

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (94%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



26 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: West Tries a New Tack to Block Iran's Nuclear Agenda

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
The United States and its allies in Europe, in a tacit acknowledgment that sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council in late December are too weak to force Iran to abandon its nuclear ambitions, have embarked on a new strategy to increase the financial and psychological pressure. 
 The plan is to use the language of the resolution to help persuade foreign governments and financial institutions to cut ties with Iranian businesses, individuals in its nuclear and missile programs and, by extension, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, said Stuart Levey, under secretary of the treasury for terrorism and financial intelligence.
The Guard and its military wing are identified as a power base for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
 Under his administration, American officials said, the Guard has moved increasingly into commercial operations, earning profits and extending its influence in Iran in areas involving big government contracts -- including building airports and other infrastructure, oil production and the providing of cellphones. 
 Bush administration officials, who asked not to be identified because they were discussing diplomatic plans, said envoys would soon head abroad to press officials of foreign governments and banks to interpret the Security Council resolution equally aggressively. 
 The new strategy builds on the Treasury Department's efforts over the past few months to get Western banks to scale back business with Iran or risk running afoul of American laws. In 2006, the European banks Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS said they would not do any new business with Iran. 
 It is hard to assess how deeply the financial actions may cut, since the most willing parties to the effort -- the United States and Europe -- have few business dealings with Iran. The United States does have laws that give it considerable leeway to impose financial restrictions on banks and companies doing business in Iran, while European law does not.
 That said, Britain is also backing the new push, as is France, although to a lesser extent. Germany, with far more business interests in Iran, is not quite as eager. Japan is not a member of the Security Council, and the country is heavily dependent on the Persian Gulf for oil. But Japanese government officials have recently indicated their willingness to limit some of their business dealings with Iran.
 Last month, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation announced that it would not issue any new loans for Iranian projects until Iran resolved the nuclear impasse with the West. In addition, Japan has reduced its stake in an initial $2 billion deal to develop Iran's largest onshore oil field at Azadegan to 10 percent from the originally agreed 75 percent, citing concern about Iran's nuclear program.
 While United States officials have discussed what they are trying to do with their Russian and Chinese counterparts, the belief is that they have gone about as far as they are willing to go with the Security Council resolution that passed Dec. 23. Russia fought to keep certain entities off the list and to keep the list as narrow as possible. 
 Mr. Levey noted that the resolution cited three people as off limits to outside commercial transactions, and, in another section, prohibited transactions with agencies ''owned or controlled'' by them. The three, he said, are Maj. Gen. Yahya Rahim Safavi, commander of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps; Gen. Hosein Salimi, who is in charge of the air force branch of the corps; and Ahmad Vahid Dastjerdi, who runs the Aerospace Industries Organization. 
 Thus, an effort to bar future foreign commercial or government involvement, including bank transactions, affecting missile programs and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard is authorized by the resolution, Mr. Levey said. 
 ''This resolution will be a big step forward in getting governments and financial institutions to pay more attention to Iran's use of deceptive financial practices to facilitate its dangerous conduct and to stop doing business with the I.R.G.C.,'' Mr. Levey said, referring to the Revolutionary Guard.
 The resolution says that ''all states'' will ''take the necessary measures'' to bar ''financial assistance'' and ''financial resources or services'' related to nuclear and ballistic missile programs. The resolution's appendix cites several government and private groups and 12 people as involved in those programs; interrupting foreign involvement with those groups and individuals is also part of the new campaign. 
 But American officials have no figures on the value of international business done with those cited in the resolution.
 The United States and European officials said they had also begun trying maneuvers aimed at undermining the self-assurance of Iranian officials, especially those who travel abroad. 
 The recent arrests of four Iranian diplomats by American troops in Iraq, the officials said, played into that strategy. Pentagon officials said the Iranians were suspected of transferring improvised explosive devices from Iran to Iraq. Iran complained loudly that the men were diplomats and that their arrest violated accepted diplomatic rules. The diplomats, two of whom American officials said were probably members of the Revolutionary Guard, were eventually released.
 But their arrests are ''precisely the type of thing that will chip away at their confidence,'' one European official said. Most of the Western officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the issue.
 Even before the new effort began, the slowdown in international business was already emerging as a problem for Iran, which has vast oil fields but relatively little refining capacity. It imports 43 percent of its gasoline, according to the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, a Washington-based nonprofit group that follows energy issues.
 In a rare acknowledgment of difficulty, the Iranian oil minister, Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh, told the ministry's news agency, Shana, recently that Iran was encountering obstacles in financing oil projects. ''Currently, overseas banks and financiers have decreased their cooperation,'' Mr. Vaziri-Hamaneh told the agency.
 Iran is already seeking to secure gasoline imports from its allies, including Venezuela, and shifting some dependency from gasoline to natural gas. 
 ''Definitely, the Iranian economy is suffering a great deal as a result of the economic punishment,'' said Gal Luft, the executive director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security. But he added that Mr. Ahmadinejad ''is not just sitting on his hands and waiting.''
 The new strategy comes in part because few believe that the sanctions resolution that passed Dec. 23 has the muscle to sway Iran to abandon its nuclear ambitions, which it insists are focused on energy production, not weapons. The road to sanctions was a tortuous one, filled with wrangling between the United States, which pushed for tough measures, and Russia, which advocated weaker measures. 
 United States and European officials said they might still try to include tougher sanctions through the United Nations in the months ahead. But they say the West will need to use other measures as well.
 Specifically, the United States will press France, Germany, Italy and other European countries to halt credits that encourage doing business in Iran. The German Ministry of Economics, in a credit program called Hermes, says on a Web site that Iran is among ''risky markets, which are also growth markets,'' identified for such credits.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The U.S. and its allies plan to exert new pressure on Iran to scrap its nuclear plans. In Tehran, students protested U.N. sanctions last week. (Photo by Atta Kenare/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); TERRORISM (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%) United Nations; Security Council (Un)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (77%) Helene Cooper; Steven R Weisman; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); IRAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Iran; Europe; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



27 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1858 words

HEADLINE: AS IRAQIS FLEE, FEW ARE GAINING SANCTUARY IN U.S.

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and ROBERT F. WORTH; Sabrina Tavernise reported from Baghdad and Robert F. Worth from New York.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
With thousands of Iraqis desperately fleeing this country every day, advocates for refugees, and even some American officials, say there is an urgent need to allow more Iraqi refugees into the United States. 
 Until recently the Bush administration had planned to resettle just 500 Iraqis this year, a mere fraction of the tens of thousands of Iraqis who are now believed to be fleeing their country each month. State Department officials say they are open to admitting larger numbers, but are limited by a cumbersome and poorly financed United Nations referral system.
''We're not even meeting our basic obligation to the Iraqis who've been imperiled because they worked for the U.S. government,'' said Kirk W. Johnson, who worked for the United States Agency for International Development in Falluja in 2005. ''We could not have functioned without their hard work, and it's shameful that we've nothing to offer them in their bleakest hour.''
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who is taking over the immigration, border security and refugee subcommittee, plans hearings this month on America's responsibility to help vulnerable Iraqis. An estimated 1.8 million Iraqis are living outside Iraq. The pace of the exodus has quickened significantly in the past nine months. 
 Some critics say the Bush administration has been reluctant to create a significant refugee program because to do so would be tantamount to conceding failure in Iraq. They say a major change in policy could happen only as part of a broader White House shift on Iraq. 
 ''I don't know of anyone inside the administration who sees this as a priority area,'' said Lavinia Limon, president of the United States Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, a nongovernmental refugee resettlement agency based in Washington. ''If you think you're winning, you think they're going to go back soon.''
 For Iraqis, a tie to the United States is a life-threatening liability, particularly in harder-line Sunni neighborhoods. In 2003, Laith, an Army interpreter who would allow only his first name to be used, got a note threatening his family if he did not quit his job. His neighborhood, Adhamiya, was full of Baath Party loyalists. A month later, his father opened the door to a stranger, who shot him dead. 
 Laith's mother begged him to stop working, but his salary, $700 a month at the time, supported the entire family. Then someone threw a sound grenade at the house. Graffiti appeared on a wall in ugly black paint accusing Laith of selling information about insurgents to the military. Laith and his family moved out of the house. Soon after, it was broken into and photographs of him with American soldiers were found in a family photo album. 
 ''They know me,'' he said, sitting in one of Baghdad's hotels, because his family would not allow a Western reporter inside the house. ''They know when I come and go.''
 Many Iraqis who worked for Americans have already fled the capital or the country, and many plead for help or asylum on a daily basis. Of some 40 nationalities seeking asylum in European countries in the first half of 2006, Iraqis ranked first with more than 8,100 applications, according to the United Nations. 
 Remarkably few apply for refugee status in the United States, mainly because most Iraqis, even those who have worked for the United States government here, simply assume that getting American status is all but impossible. Iraqis cannot apply directly for refugee status in the American Embassy in Baghdad.
 Another interpreter, Amar, who did not want his full name used, went to at least 10 embassies during a trip to Jordan last fall, but found only blank faces. He counts his sacrifice for America in bones and skin. He is missing a finger, an eye and part of his skull, after a large bomb exploded next to his Humvee last year. He has received two threats to his life. Two bodyguards accompany him everywhere. He stays in three different houses to confuse potential attackers. 
 ''They said they have nothing for Iraqis,'' said Amar, sitting in a small house in western Baghdad. ''We feel just like stupid trash.''
 Until recently, the administration did not appear to understand the gravity of the problem. State Department officials say they are now open to increasing the number of refugee slots the administration formally requested for Iraqis in September. That request already allows for as many as 20,000 more refugees from unspecified countries. 
 But advocates for refugees say that such an increase is unlikely if no special measures are taken, namely designating Iraqis as a group in peril and formalizing a system for receiving them. 
 Ellen R. Sauerbrey, the assistant secretary of state for population, refugees and migration, said the United States was hoping to identify the most vulnerable Iraqi refugees but was also dependent on the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to do that. 
 Officials at the United Nations refugee branch acknowledge that they have moved slowly in identifying refugees, largely because of procedural obstacles and lack of money. The agency's budget for Syria last year was $700,000, less than one dollar for each Iraqi refugee in that country. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said in October that its Iraq program was $9 million short and that some employees were going without salaries. 
 The State Department spent $35 million on Iraqi refugees in Iraq and the region in 2006. The United States spends approximately $8 billion a month on the war. 
 But there is no legal requirement for the United States to rely on the United Nations. It has run its own programs in the past, notably in Southeast Asia. Hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese were ultimately resettled in the United States after the American withdrawal from Vietnam in 1975. In that instance, a number of aid groups in neighboring countries divided the work of interviewing and assessing refugees, a system Ms. Limon and many other advocates for refugees are pushing for Iraqis today. 
 The United States has even run similar programs in Iraq, helping to resettle about 40,000 Iraqi refugees in the United States and other countries after a failed uprising against Saddam Hussein in 1991. In 1996, about 6,500 Iraqis who had links to an American-sponsored coup attempt against Mr. Hussein were granted asylum. 
 The Bush administration suspended resettlement of Iraqi refugees after the Sept. 11 attacks, and it did not resume until April 2005, after the process had begun for other Arab countries. A total of 198 Iraqis were resettled in the United States as refugees in the fiscal year of 2005, and 202 in 2006, but most were in the pipeline before the 2003 invasion, and few of the cases address the increasingly dire situation for Iraqis today.
 Iraqis who work with the military often have to live separately from their families, to avoid putting them in danger. One 25-year-old interpreter left home when his parents in Mosul, in northern Iraq, learned of his work. Now in Baghdad, he has been back home rarely. 
 Laith lives with an aunt, away from his wife, in an area where no one knows him. After a visit to his parents several months ago, a stranger asked about his 8-year-old brother at a boys' school. The family fears that it was the early stages of a kidnapping. 
 ''I bring a lot of troubles when I go to visit my family,'' he said, smoking a cigarette. 
 Congress approved one program last year to help get special immigrant status for Iraqi interpreters who have worked for the United Statesmilitary. Laith has tried to apply. The law, which also applies to Afghan interpreters, is capped at 50 a year. Laith was told he needed a senior officer to vouch for him, but he has not worked with one recently, and the one he had worked with is now back in the United States.
 Getting such letters, Laith said, has become increasing difficult, because the interpreters for the most senior American officers now tend to be Arabic speakers hired from the United States, not from Iraq.
 The State Department has made it clear that it is deeply concerned about the fate of Iraq's religious minorities, including Christians. Officials at the department say that any refugee program must also be geared to those vulnerable groups. 
 As many as 100,000 exiled Iraqi Christians have relatives in the United States and would want to resettle there if given the chance, said Joseph T. Kassab, the executive director of the Chaldean Federation of America, a Michigan-based umbrella group that represents Iraqi Christians. Mr. Kassab said his group's estimates were based on questionnaires devised by University of Michigan professors and filled out by several thousand Iraqi Christian refugees in Syria, Jordan and Lebanon in recent months. 
 State Department officials and some advocates for refugees agree that the United States is not likely to begin resettling large numbers of Iraqis anytime soon. New counterterrorism laws after Sept. 11 have slowed immigration, particularly from countries in the Middle East, and Iraqi applications would be bogged down by those security issues. 
 A State Department refugee official said that any American resettlement effort would deal with only a small part of the overall refugee problem in the region. 
 Ms. Limon agreed, saying, ''We'll have trouble with the few thousand who work in the Green Zone.''
 A quicker way to help would be to increase financing to countries that are accepting Iraqis -- Jordan, Syria and Lebanon -- and press those governments to improve their treatment of Iraqis by allowing them to work and travel, officials and advocates said.
 That would be a real service for Iraqis in Jordan, who speak of rude and sometimes abusive treatment. Jordanians often do not allow Iraqis to bring in suitcases, travelers said, and have been known to turn away young men, forcing families to continue on without them. 
 ''Put yourself in my shoes,'' said an Iraqi working in an American Army base who spent eight hours in the January cold last year with his wife and infant at the Jordanian border. ''You take your family to another country and they interview you like you are a terrorist.''
 A residency permit is required, and Iraqis must deposit 50,000 Jordanian dinars -- about $70,000 -- in a bank without drawing on it for a year to obtain one. The worker, who wanted to be identified only as Abu Hussein, eventually moved his family back to Iraq, to the south, because he could not afford to stay in Jordan.
 ''The Americans are in control of this country,'' he said, talking about Jordan. ''Why don't they become angry at how they are treating us?'' 
 Abu Hussein is lucky: He lives on the Army base where he works. Laith does not have that luxury. He pays $400 to two guards and a driver to bring him to Baghdad from an American base near Beiji. Insurgents pay taxi drivers near the base to call them when they see a single man with a large overnight bag, he said. Once a cab driver recognized his face. 
 ''I worked for three years, I lost a lot of things,'' he said, his voice urgent. ''It's supposed to be some respect for me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Laith, an Army interpreter, received a note threatening his family if he did not quit his job. A month later, his father was shot and killed. (Photo by Johann Spanner for The New York Times)
 Young men pack the roof of a bus at Salhiye Street in Baghdad. Hundreds of people leave every day from the bus station to go to Syria and Jordan. (Photo by Johann Spanner for The New York Times)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ARMIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); FAMILY (66%); SHOOTINGS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Asylum (Political); Immigration and Refugees; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%) United Nations

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (77%) Sabrina Tavernise; Robert F Worth; Edward M (Sen) Kennedy; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); JORDAN (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Europe; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



28 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 38TH PRESIDENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: At Funeral, a Gathering To Echo Reunions Past 

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1 

 BODY:
On the morning of President Gerald R. Ford's funeral, his former cabinet secretaries and administration staff members will come together here once more, taking their seats in the black cars accompanying the funeral motorcade and in the pews of Washington National Cathedral.
 For more than two decades, they had gathered at Mr. Ford's annual White House reunions, most of which were held in the nation's capital, where they chuckled over half-forgotten policy disputes and shook their heads sadly as their numbers dwindled and their host grew increasingly frail. 
Even as their career paths and personal lives diverged, they kept in touch with Mr. Ford and with one another, reminiscing at dinner parties and lunches, and in long-distance phone calls. In mourning their president on Tuesday, the alumni of his administration will also be celebrating his life and the intimate circle he created. 
 ''We've stayed together,'' said Brent Scowcroft, who served as national security adviser to Mr. Ford. ''There is a sense of community.''
 In many ways, Tuesday's funeral will highlight those ties. Henry A. Kissinger, Mr. Ford's secretary of state, cut short his vacation to the Dominican Republic to attend the Washington solemnities, which began Saturday. Robert E. Barrett, Mr. Ford's military attache, flew in from his home in Florida. Carla A. Hills, his housing secretary, and William T. Coleman Jr., his transportation secretary, who both still work in Washington, will join them as honorary pallbearers.
 The funeral will also reunite several officials who gained prominence in Washington after Mr. Ford left office, including Vice President Dick Cheney, who served as Mr. Ford's chief of staff; Alan Greenspan, who was chairman of Mr. Ford's council of economic advisers years before he became chairman of the Federal Reserve; and Mr. Scowcroft, who also served as national security adviser to President George Bush. They, too, will be pallbearers.
 Ron Nessen, who was Mr. Ford's press secretary and who will attend the ceremony at the cathedral, said Mr. Ford's White House team had bonded so deeply because members had served during ''an extraordinary time in American history.'' 
 It was the mid-1970s, and Mr. Ford, unexpectedly thrust into the presidency, had scrambled to assemble a team that would guide a nation reeling from Watergate, from President Richard M. Nixon's resignation and pardon, from the winding down of the Vietnam War, and from gas lines and soaring inflation.
 ''It was a shared experience, an amazing shared experience,'' Mr. Nessen said, ''and that's what keeps people in touch with each other.'' 
 ''People are going to share a lot of their memories,'' Mr. Nessen said of the Tuesday reunion. ''And we'll be thinking of the more personal moments, the more personal conversations, the thoughtful things he did as a man, not just as president.''
 Mr. Nessen and others said they particularly enjoyed swapping memories of how Mr. Ford had treated people, regardless of their station in life, with dignity and respect, and how he had never taken on airs. 
 He described the day when Mr. Ford's dog, Liberty, made a mess on the carpet in the Oval Office and a Navy steward had scrambled to clean it. The president stopped him.
 '' 'I'll do that,' '' Mr. Nessen recalled Mr. Ford saying. '' 'No man should have to clean up after another man's dog.' ''
 Mr. Ford's energy secretary, Frank G. Zarb, remembered the time when Mr. Ford had been ready to make an announcement to the White House press corps but then realized he did not have any cufflinks handy.
 ''He got two paperclips,'' Mr. Zarb recalled. ''And he said, 'Let's go. We have more important things to do.' ''
 Mr. Coleman, the former transportation secretary, who said he had seen Mr. Ford four or five times a year, said he had relished the former president's warmth and humor, and his love of family and sports. The last time they spoke, about three months ago, they had talked football, he said.
 ''Michigan had just defeated Michigan State,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''We had a good time.'' (As a young man, Mr. Ford played football for the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.)
 Of course, some of Mr. Ford's officials also clashed, and memories of those battles sometimes rankled. But for the most part, those rivalries faded over time, said Robert Orben, a speechwriter for Mr. Ford.
 ''We're old now, and life has mellowed us,'' Mr. Orben said. ''Some old tensions get put away. There's a sense of camaraderie that continues.''
 Many officials held fast to that sense of closeness, particularly as Mr. Ford began to age and weaken. 
 At one recent reunion, Mr. Ford and his wife, Betty, sat on stools because they no longer had the energy to stand and shake hands with the scores of well-wishers. And at last year's gathering, Mr. Ford did not show up at all. Instead, he sent his regards via videotape. It was the first time he had missed a reunion. 
 Mr. Ford had been in and out of the hospital since January 2006, most recently in October for tests at the Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Mr. Scowcroft, who said he had spoken to Mr. Ford several times a year, said he could hear the difference in Mr. Ford's voice when they chatted last summer.
 ''He sounded tired,'' Mr. Scowcroft said. ''There wasn't the same kind of vibrancy in his voice.''
 Mr. Ford was 93 when he died last week. It is unclear whether the annual reunions will continue without him. But his administration officials said he would continue to inspire them.
 ''There will be sadness, but there will also be gladness that will relate to his legacy, to his service to the country,'' said John O. Marsh Jr., an honorary pallbearer who served as a Virginia congressman before becoming a top aide to Mr. Ford. 
 ''Hopefully,'' Mr. Marsh said, ''it will renew our own spirit of commitment to public service.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Betty Ford, surrounded by her family, leaned on the coffin of her husband, former President Gerald R. Ford, yesterday at the Capitol Rotunda. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)
Former President Bill Clinton and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton were among those at the Capitol yesterday to pay respects to Mr. Ford. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 Visitors lined up yesterday to view Mr. Ford's coffin at the Capitol. The funeral is to be held today at Washington National Cathedral. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); POLITICS (73%); HISTORY (65%); VIETNAM WAR (65%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%) United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) Gerald Rudolph Jr (1913-2006) Ford; Rachel L Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



29 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Puts Some Muscle Behind Power-Sipping Bulbs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
As a way to cut energy use, it could not be simpler. Unscrew a light bulb that uses a lot of electricity and replace it with one that uses much less. 
 While it sounds like a promising idea, it turns out that the long-lasting, swirl-shaped light bulbs known as compact fluorescent lamps are to the nation's energy problem what vegetables are to its obesity epidemic: a near perfect answer, if only Americans could be persuaded to swallow them.
But now Wal-Mart Stores, the giant discount retailer, is determined to push them into at least 100 million homes. And its ambitions extend even further, spurred by a sweeping commitment from its chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., to reduce energy use across the country, a move that could also improve Wal-Mart's appeal to the more affluent consumers the chain must win over to keep growing in the United States.
 ''The environment,'' Mr. Scott said, ''is begging for the Wal-Mart business model.'' 
 It is the environmental movement's dream: America's biggest company, legendary for its salesmanship and influence with suppliers, encouraging 200 million shoppers to save energy.
 For all its power in retailing, though, Wal-Mart is meeting plenty of resistance -- from light-bulb makers, competitors and consumers. To help turn the tide, it is even reaching out to unlikely partners like Google, Home Depot and Hollywood.
 A compact fluorescent has clear advantages over the widely used incandescent light -- it uses 75 percent less electricity, lasts 10 times longer, produces 450 pounds fewer greenhouse gases from power plants and saves consumers $30 over the life of each bulb. But it is eight times as expensive as a traditional bulb, gives off a harsher light and has a peculiar appearance.
 As a result, the bulbs have languished on store shelves for a quarter century; only 6 percent of households use the bulbs today.
 Which is what makes Wal-Mart's goal so wildly ambitious. If it succeeds in selling 100 million compact fluorescent bulbs a year by 2008, total sales of the bulbs in the United States would increase by 50 percent, saving Americans $3 billion in electricity costs and avoiding the need to build additional power plants for the equivalent of 450,000 new homes.
 That would send shockwaves -- some intended, others not -- across the lighting industry. Because compact fluorescent bulbs last up to eight years, giant manufacturers, like General Electric and Osram Sylvania, would sell far fewer lights. Because the bulbs are made in Asia, some American manufacturing jobs could be lost. And because the bulbs contain mercury, there is a risk of pollution when millions of consumers throw them away. 
 Michael B. Petras, vice president of lighting at G.E., concedes that ''the economics are better with incandescent bulbs.''
 All that has only spurred Wal-Mart to redouble its efforts -- and, in typical fashion, it is asking those who may be hurt by the change to help achieve it. 
 During an extraordinary meeting in Las Vegas in early October, competing bulb makers, academics, environmentalists and government officials met to ponder, at times uncomfortably, how Wal-Mart could sell more of the fluorescent lights. 
 The proposals discussed at what Wal-Mart dubbed the ''light bulb summit'' ranged from the practical (advertise the bulbs on the back of a Coke 12-pack) to the quixotic (create a tax on incandescent bulbs to make them more expensive). 
 Selling 100 million bulbs ''is not a slam dunk by any stretch of the imagination,'' Stephen Goldmacher, an executive at Royal Philips, the Dutch company that is one of the world's largest light-bulb makers, told the group. ''If this were easy, it would have happened already.''
 The attendees did not need to look far for evidence. Wal-Mart had asked the owners of the Mirage Hotel and Casino, where the conference was held, to commit to using the energy saving bulbs in its guest rooms in time for the meeting. The hotel politely declined. 
 It is not alone. Compact fluorescent bulbs, introduced in the United States with much fanfare in 1979 by Philips just as the nation's second energy crisis of the decade was getting under way, have never captured the public imagination. 
 The new bulbs -- lighted by sparking an efficient chemical reaction, rather than heating a metal filament -- were ungainly, took several seconds to light up and often did not fit into traditional light fixtures. 
 Since then, refinements have made them far more convenient to use, reducing their size and price as well. But Wal-Mart sold only 40 million in 2005, compared with about 350 million incandescent bulbs, according to people briefed on the figures. 
 And it would have stayed that way unless Wal-Mart decided to go green. More than a year ago, Mr. Scott, the company's chief executive, began reaching out to some of environmental groups, telling them that Wal-Mart, long regarded as an environmental offender, wanted to become a leader on issues like fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions.
 Mr. Scott viewed such a move as a way to use Wal-Mart's influence to improve the environment, cut costs and, of course, burnish the company's bruised image. In September 2005, Mr. Scott and Andy Ruben, Wal-Mart's vice president for strategy and sustainability, drove 6,000 feet to the Mount Washington Observatory in New Hampshire with Steve Hamburg, an environmental studies professor at Brown University, and Fred Krupp, the president of the advocacy group Environmental Defense. 
 At the summit, where scientists measure climate change 24 hours a day, the men discussed global warming, acid rain, the hole in the ozone layer and what Wal-Mart could do about them.
 ''You need to look at what is being sold on the shelf,'' Mr. Hamburg recalled telling Mr. Scott over a dinner of turkey and mashed potatoes. He began talking excitedly about compact fluorescent bulbs. ''Very few products,'' he said, ''are such a clear winner'' for consumers and the environment.
 Soon after returning from the trip, Wal-Mart publicly embraced the bulbs with the zealotry of a convert. In meetings with suppliers, buyers for the chain laid out their plans: lower prices, expanding the shelf space dedicated to them and heavily promoting the technology.
 Light-bulb manufacturers, who sell millions of incandescent lights at Wal-Mart, immediately expressed reservations. In a December 2005 meeting with executives from General Electric, Wal-Mart's largest bulb supplier, ''the message from G.E. was, 'Don't go too fast. We have all these plants that produce traditional bulbs,' '' said one person involved with the issue, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of an agreement not to speak publicly about the negotiations. 
 The response from the Wal-Mart buyer was blunt, this person said. ''We are going there,'' the buyer said. ''You decide if you are coming with us.''
 In the end, as Wal-Mart suppliers generally do, the bulb makers decided to come with the company. 
 Philips, despite protests from packaging designers, agreed to change the name of its compact fluorescent bulbs from ''Marathon'' to ''energy saver.'' To keep up with swelling orders from the chain, Osram Sylvania took to flying entire planeloads of compact fluorescent bulbs from Asia to the United States.
 ''When Wal-Mart sets its mind to something with a narrow objective like that, they are going to make it happen,'' said Jim Jubb, vice president for consumer product sales at Sylvania. 
 At the same time that it pressured suppliers, Wal-Mart began testing ways to better market the bulbs. In the past, Wal-Mart had sold them on the bottom shelf of the lighting aisle, so that shoppers had to bend down. In tests that started in February, it gave the lights prime real estate at eye level. Sales soared. 
 To show customers how versatile the bulbs could be, Wal-Mart began displaying them inside the lamps and hanging fans for sale in its stores. Sales nudged up further. 
 To explain the benefits of the energy-efficient bulbs, the retailer placed an education display case at the end of the aisle, where it occupied four feet of valuable selling space -- an extravagance at Wal-Mart. Sales climbed even higher. 
 In August 2006, the chain sold 3.94 million, nearly twice the 1.65 million it sold in August 2005, according to a person briefed on the numbers.
 But to reach 100 million, Wal-Mart has to do much more -- and that, executives concede, is where the biggest challenges rest. In the fall, the company began reaching out to competing retailers, Internet companies and even filmmakers.
 The goal was to turn its sales campaign into a broader cultural movement. 
 One proposal, headed by Lawrence Bender, who produced Al Gore's 2006 documentary, ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' is to create a Web site that would track sales of compact fluorescent bulbs at major retailers like Walgreen's and Target. The result would be a real-time map, with data collected by a third party, showing how much Americans have saved by using the energy-efficient bulbs.
 Mr. Ruben said such a map ''helps consumers see this as something bigger than buying a bulb.''
 At the same time, Google and Yahoo are in talks with Wal-Mart about how to use their search engines to promote the bulbs.
 But Home Depot and Lowe's balked at the idea of cooperating with their larger rival. ''We don't think we need an organization like that to sell more CFLs,'' said Ron Jarvis, the vice president of environmental innovation at Home Depot, using the bulb's industry nickname.
 Then there is the mercury inside the bulbs, a problem Wal-Mart is working with the federal government and environmental groups to resolve, possibly by collecting the bulbs at its stores or off-site locations for recycling. 
 In the end, though, the biggest obstacle to overcome is America's love affair with cheap, familiar-looking incandescent bulbs -- a habit 130 years in the making. 
 For that to turn around, Wal-Mart will have to persuade its traditional consumers that it is worth paying a bit more at the checkout counter to save a significant amount money down the line, a seemingly simple task that few companies ever accomplish. It is particularly difficult at a retailer that has long emphasized ''always low prices.''
 ''It has taken the American public forever to grasp this,'' said Charlie Jerabek, the chief executive of Sylvania.
 Helen Capone encapsulates the challenge. Ms. Capone, 68, said she ''curses the energy company every month'' because of her electricity bill and loves the five-year-old, trouble-free compact fluorescent bulb in her attic. But she won't switch to the energy-saving bulbs in the rest of her house in Secaucus, N.J. ''They are not the prettiest things in the world,'' she said, surveying the bulbs at a Wal-Mart.
 That has put Wal-Mart in the strange position of racing ahead of its customers and coaxing them, bulb by bulb, toward energy conservation.
 ''We start with the premise,'' Mr. Ruben, ''that customers make good choices.''

 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge.
ONLINE: A video discussion with more detail about energy-efficient light bulbs: nytimes.com/business


 INCANDESCENT: 1.5 to 2 billion
FLUORESCENT: 130 to 150 million

*Includes all wattages

(Sources by Environmental Protection Agency; Environmental Defense; Itron; Philips)(pg. C2)

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Tuesday about Wal-Mart's struggle to market a long-lasting, energy-saving light bulb known as a compact fluorescent lamp misstated the time period in which the retailer sold 40 million of the bulbs compared with about 350 million incandescent bulbs. It was from August 2005 to August 2006 -- not in 2005.
A chart on Jan. 2 with the continuation of a front-page article about Wal-Mart's struggle to market an energy-saving light bulb known as a compact fluorescent lamp referred incompletely to mercury emissions in comparing two light bulbs. The emissions -- 2.4 milligrams from the fluorescent lamp and 10 milligrams for an incandescent bulb -- occur at a coal-powered plant generating the electricity needed for the bulbs. The bulbs themselves do not emit mercury.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Pushing a Bright Idea''Wal-Mart is promoting consumer use of compact fluorescent light bulbs over incandescents. Here's how the bulbs compare.Energy used (watts)INCANDESCENT: 60FLUORESCENT: 13Light output (lumens)INCANDESCENT: 850FLUORESCENT: 800Average cost (dollars)INCANDESCENT: $0.25 to 0.60FLUORESCENT: $2 to 4Annual savings (dollars)INCANDESCENT: FLUORESCENT$0: Annual$8 carbon savings (pounds)INCANDESCENT: 0FLUORESCENT: roughly 100Life (hours)INCANDESCENT: 1,000FLUORESCENT: 5,000 to 10,000Mercury in the bulb (miligrams)INCANDESCENT: noneFLUORESCENT: 4Mercury emissions (miligrams)INCANDESCENT: 10FLUORESCENT: 2.4Number of bulbs sold annually*

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RETAILERS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKET INCIDENCE (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); OBESITY (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (63%); EPIDEMICS (56%) Electric Light and Power; Surveys and Series; Electric Light Bulbs; Advertising and Marketing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); GOOGLE INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (79%) Michael Barbaro; H Lee Jr Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



30 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: A YEAR AT WAR -- Evolving Strategies; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3620 words

HEADLINE: Chaos Overran Iraq Plan in '06, Bush Team Says

BYLINE: This article is by David E. Sanger, Michael R. Gordon and John F. Burns.; David E. Sanger and Michael R. Gordon reported from Washington, and John F. Burns from Cambridge, England, and Baghdad. Reporting was contributed by James Glanz, Sabrina Tavernise and Abdul Razzaq al-Saiedi from Baghdad.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
President Bush began 2006 assuring the country that he had a ''strategy for victory in Iraq.'' He ended the year closeted with his war cabinet on his ranch trying to devise a new strategy, because the existing one had collapsed.
 The original plan, championed by Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top commander in Baghdad, and backed by Donald H. Rumsfeld, then the defense secretary, called for turning over responsibility for security to the Iraqis, shrinking the number of American bases and beginning the gradual withdrawal of American troops. But the plan collided with Iraq's ferocious unraveling, which took most of Mr. Bush's war council by surprise.
In interviews in Washington and Baghdad, senior officials said the White House, the Pentagon and the State Department had also failed to take seriously warnings, including some from its own ambassador in Baghdad, that sectarian violence could rip the country apart and turn Mr. Bush's promise to ''clear, hold and build'' Iraqi neighborhoods and towns into an empty slogan. 
 This left the president and his advisers constantly lagging a step or two behind events on the ground. 
 ''We could not clear and hold,'' Stephen J. Hadley, the president's national security adviser, acknowledged in a recent interview, in a frank admission of how American strategy had crumbled. ''Iraqi forces were not able to hold neighborhoods, and the effort to build did not show up. The sectarian violence continued to mount, so we did not make the progress on security we had hoped. We did not bring the moderate Sunnis off the fence, as we had hoped. The Shia lost patience, and began to see the militias as their protectors.'' 
 Over the past 12 months, as optimism collided with reality, Mr. Bush increasingly found himself uneasy with General Casey's strategy. And now, as the image of Saddam Hussein at the gallows recedes, Mr. Bush seems all but certain not only to reverse the strategy that General Casey championed, but also to accelerate the general's departure from Iraq, according to senior military officials. 
 General Casey repeatedly argued that his plan offered the best prospect for reducing the perception that the United States remained an occupier -- and it was a path he thought matched Mr. Bush's wishes. Earlier in the year, it had.
 But as Baghdad spun further out of control, some of the president's advisers now say, Mr. Bush grew concerned that General Casey, among others, had become more fixated on withdrawal than victory. 
 Now, having ousted Mr. Rumsfeld, Mr. Bush sees a chance to bring in a new commander as he announces a new strategy, senior military officials say. General Casey was scheduled to shift out of Iraq in the summer. But now it appears that it may happen in February or March. 
 By mid-September, Mr. Bush was disappointed with the results in Iraq and signed off on a complete review of Iraq strategy -- a review centered in Washington, not in Baghdad. Whatever form the new strategy takes, it seems almost certain to include a ''surge'' in forces, something that General Casey insisted earlier this year he did not need and which might even be counterproductive. 
 In a telephone interview on Friday, General Casey continued to caution against a lengthy expansion in the American military role. ''The longer we in the U.S. forces continue to bear the main burden of Iraq's security, it lengthens the time that the government of Iraq has to take the hard decisions about reconciliation and dealing with the militias,'' he said. ''And the other thing is that they can continue to blame us for all of Iraq's problems, which are at base their problems.''
 Yet if Mr. Bush does send in more American forces, historians may well ask why it took him so long. Some Bush officials argue that the administration erred by refusing to send in a bigger force in 2003, or by sufficiently bolstering it when the insurgency began to take hold. 
 This year, decisions on a new strategy were clearly slowed by political calculations. Many of Mr. Bush's advisers say their timetable for completing an Iraq review had been based in part on a judgment that for Mr. Bush to have voiced doubts about his strategy before the midterm elections in November would have been politically catastrophic. 
 Mr. Bush came to worry that it was not just his critics and Democrats in Congress who were looking for what he dismissed last month as a strategy of ''graceful exit.'' Visiting the Pentagon a few weeks ago for a classified briefing on Iraq with his generals, Mr. Bush made it clear that he was not interested in any ideas that would simply allow American forces to stabilize the violence. Gen. James T. Conway, the Marine commandant, later told marines about the president's message. 
 ''What I want to hear from you is how we're going to win,'' he quoted the president as warning his commanders, ''not how we're going to leave.''

Sectarian Killings Escalate
 When 2006 began, the United States military did not have a systematic means of tabulating sectarian attacks in Iraq. The Sunni-led insurgency was the focus of Mr. Bush's statements, and its destruction the focus of American military strategy.
 The Bush administration was jolted on Feb. 22 when Al Qaeda blew up the Askariya Mosque in Samarra, a carefully plotted effort to fan sectarian passions, prompt Shiite retaliation and make Iraq ungovernable. 
 The day of the explosion, Shiites in Sadr City poured into the streets carrying banners and flags. Men, some dressed in black, the traditional dress for the Shiite militia in the area, piled into open back trucks, carrying weapons and shouting slogans of loyalty to Shiite saints. In Baghdad, Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to Iraq, went to Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari to insist that the Iraqi government impose a 24-hour nationwide curfew. Mr. Jaafari, a member of the Shiite Dawa Party, was not persuaded. 
 ''You've been here six months, and all of a sudden you know my country better than I do,'' Mr. Jaafari replied, according to an official who witnessed the exchange. But even some Iraqi leaders, including the current national security adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, echoed Mr. Khalilzad's advice. ''I remember saying to him: 'this is going to be the trigger of an all-out civil war,' '' Mr. Rubaie said.
 Mr. Jaafari insisted that he had a plan, which involved closing the Sunni television stations in the country, though as the violence grew he belatedly imposed a curfew that evening. It was the beginning of a debilitating pattern. The Shiite-dominated government did too little to protect Sunni citizens. Shiite militias took matters into their own hands. And the American military struggled to hold the city together with overstretched units. 
 It was clear that the retaliation was highly organized. Sunnis in the eastern portion of Baghdad, in an area called Rusafa, reported that Shiites in SUV's were pulling up, knocking on doors, and seeking specific people. Bodies surfaced in sewers and garbage heaps days later.
 When the killing abated, President Bush and his top aides declared that the worst had passed. Both Sunnis and Shiites had ''looked into the abyss and did not like what they saw,'' the president said. 
 Renegade militias were a concern but ''not a major long-term problem as long as the Iraqi armed forces and the Iraqi police continue to be loyal to the central government, as they have been,'' Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a March 5 appearance on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press.'' 
 Sectarian-inspired executions, however, rose from almost 200 in January to more than 700 in March, and continued upward, according to the Pentagon.
 Even as the violence grew, General Casey, the top American commander in Iraq, appeared confident. He had served as a senior aide for the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon, where he gained the confidence of Mr. Rumsfeld before being sent to Baghdad in 2004. At 58, the four-star general reported directly to the defense secretary. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld had mused publicly that history showed that it could take a decade or so to defeat an insurgency. He was eager to turn over responsibility for the war to the Iraqis and to reduce the American footprint in Iraq as quickly as possible. 
 General Casey and Gen. John P. Abizaid, head of the United States Central Command, appeared to be like-minded. During the summer of 2005, General Casey had forecast ''fairly significant reductions'' in American troops by the summer of 2006, an assessment that the commander said reflected ''feelers'' from Sunni insurgents that they might be willing to negotiate and lay down their arms. 
 Some of General Casey's aides have said that in developing troop withdrawal plans they were cognizant that the Bush administration had not taken any steps to expand the American military presence despite a persistent insurgency, and seemed to have little appetite for substantially expanding the war effort.

No Wish to Stay Indefinitely
 For his part, General Casey said that his plan was aimed at showing Iraqis that the United States did not want to perpetuate its role as an occupier indefinitely, and stressed that he was following a strategy to match the ''convoluted'' political and military situation in Iraq, and not seeking to advance his career with plans that suited the Bush administration's political agenda.
 ''I have worked very hard to ask for what I need, for what I thought I needed to accomplish the mission,'' he said Friday. ''It's always been my view that a heavy and sustained American military presence was not going to solve the problems in Iraq over the long term.''
 By late 2005, the White House accepted the main tenets of the hand-over strategy. ''Casey and Abizaid had what seemed like a plausible plan at the time,'' Mr. Hadley recalled. ''It was well thought out, and after the elections in January looked like the direction we were headed in.'' 
 President Bush promoted the strategy in a speech to cheering midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md., on Nov. 30, 2005: ''We will continue to shift from providing security and conducting operations against the enemy nationwide to conducting more specialized operations targeted at the most dangerous terrorists. We will increasingly move out of Iraqi cities, reduce the number of bases from which we operate, and conduct fewer patrols and convoys.''
 Yet not everybody at the Pentagon shared General's Casey's confidence. The Defense Intelligence Agency had briefed the White House in early 2006 that the insurgency was winning in Iraq, according to a former military officer. The briefing, which chronicled the steady rise in the number of attacks, prompted a counter-briefing from General Casey's intelligence chief, who prepared an analysis tracing the positive trends in Iraq. 
 Data gathered by General Casey's own command, which showed a steady increase in weekly attacks and civilian casualties, lent support to the Defense Intelligence Agency assessment. 
 At the State Department, skepticism about General Casey's strategy ran deep. Philip D. Zelikow, the counselor to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice until he resigned in December, went to Iraq in late 2005, and returned with a recommendation that the first part of 2006 be devoted to a big push -- military, economic and political -- to boost the soon-to-be-formed Iraqi government. His approach contradicted the commitment to reductions. 
 Still, the general was reluctant to abandon his basic strategy. According to a senior administration official, General Casey told the White House in April, May and June of 2006 that the American military was having success against Al Qaeda of Mesopotamia and the Sunni-based insurgency, and that sectarian violence could be managed.

Calls for a Review of Strategy
 By May 2006, uneasy officials at the State Department and the National Security Council argued for a review of Iraq strategy. A meeting was convened at Camp David to consider those approaches, according to participants in the session, but Mr. Bush left early for a secret visit to Baghdad, where he reviewed the war plans with General Casey and Mr. Maliki, and met with the American pilot whose plane's missiles killed Iraq's Al Qaeda leader, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. He returned to Washington in a buoyant mood.
 The visit meant that the reconsideration of strategy was not as thorough as some officials hoped. 
 Later in June, General Casey flew to Washington to give briefings on the latest version of his troop reduction plan at the Pentagon and White House. The number of American combat brigades, which then totaled 14, would be reduced by two in September and might shrink to 10 by December, if conditions allowed. If the Iraqis continued to assume more responsibility for their security, there would be only five or six combat brigades in Iraq by December 2007. 
 Yet already President Bush was signaling to top aides that he wanted to re-evaluate how to keep stability before proceeding with troop withdrawals. His caution matched a growing unease among American field commanders in Iraq, and officers on the streets of Baghdad, who said they were surprised by General Casey's continued advocacy of withdrawals and consolidating bases. They said that American forces should be focusing on a greater counterinsurgency effort, which would require that a substantial number of troops be dispersed to protect that population against insurgent and militia attacks. 
 Events overtook the White House. In early August, the United States was forced to reverse course and add troops in Baghdad. On reflection, Mr. Hadley said, ''Finally the patience of the Shia had worn thin,'' and, ''By the time the unity government took over the cycle of sectarian violence had begun. And they and we have not been able to get ahead of it .'' 
 The administration's summer strategy seemed simple: American and Iraqi forces would clear selected neighborhoods of insurgents and militia leaders, hold them with the Iraqi police, and win over the population with job-creating reconstruction programs. 
 But carrying out the strategy proved maddeningly difficult. The American troop commitment was modest at best. With the addition of roughly 7,000 troops the American military force assigned to carry out the operation in Baghdad was brought to some 15,000. (During one discussion of the operation in August, President Bush asked General Casey whether he had sufficient troops to secure Baghdad; the general assured him that he did.)
 The Iraqis never delivered four of the six Iraqi Army battalions that they had committed to the effort. Some of the Iraqi police units proved to be so infiltrated by Shiite militias that they had to be pulled off duty for retraining.

Weaknesses in the Iraqi Forces
 In the Sunni stronghold of Dora, in southwestern Baghdad, American troops were forced to clear thousands of homes twice: the Iraqi security forces who moved in behind them were too few, and too little dedicated to the task, to keep the insurgents from returning. 
 In neighborhoods like Baya, the Shiite-dominated Iraqi National Police set up menacing checkpoints on the routes Sunnis used to seek medical attention or buy fuel. 
 ''They were trying to dominate the Sunni population and terrorize them to the point that they would leave Baghdad or leave the neighborhood,'' recalled Lt. Col. James Danna, who had led the Second Battalion, Sixth Infantry Regiment, which oversaw those areas. He said that like the first Baghdad security operation, the second also failed. As the American elections approached, White House officials say, they believed it would amount to political suicide to announce a broad reassessment of Iraq strategy. But they recognized that unless they began such a review, they would be forced to accept the conclusions of the final report of the Iraq Study Group -- headed by James A. Baker III, the former Republican secretary of state, and Lee H. Hamilton, the former Democratic congressman. 
 The effort started in September, around the time Mr. Bush decided to oust Mr. Rumsfeld. In the days before the election, Mr. Bush suggested during an interview that Mr. Rumsfeld could stay until the end of his term -- a deliberately misleading statement that Mr. Bush said later was necessitated by the political season. Similarly, it was days after the election that the White House revealed that a major Iraq review was under way.
 In public, Mr. Bush continues to insist that he and Mr. Maliki share the same vision. In private, one of his former aides said, ''he questions whether Maliki has the will or the power'' to make good on any commitments.
 American military officers have also wondered if the Shiite-dominated Iraqi government and the Americans share the same vision. Were the Iraqis not pulling their weight because they did not have the capability to provide security and proceed with reconstruction? Or did the Iraqi authorities have a sectarian agenda? 
 As security efforts in Baghdad faltered, a confidential briefing on possible ''end states'' in Iraq was prepared by officials under the command of Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarielli, who until a few weeks ago led the day-to-day operations in Iraq. It suggested the dark vision of a divided nation that haunts the administration.
 Unless the United States persuaded the Iraqi government to change course, those who prepared the briefing foresaw an Iraq run by a relatively weak central government, which would include a largely autonomous nine-province Shiite region in the south and a Shiite-dominated Baghdad. The Kurds would retain their autonomy in the north. The Sunnis would essentially be relegated to the western Anbar Province and other enclaves.
 The briefing posed a question: was this an outcome the United States could live with? If so, what could the United States do to minimize the bloodshed? If not, what should be done to alter this course?
 Mr. Bush still insists on talking about victory, even if his own advisers differ about how to define it. ''It's a word the American people understand,'' he told members of the Iraq Study Group who came to see him at the White House in November, according to two commission members who attended. ''And if I start to change it, it will look like I'm beginning to change my policy.''


TIMELINE OF EVENTS: April 22 -- The Iraqi Parliament approves a president and a speaker.
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 76
SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 545
SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 699
QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: April 22 -- ''There's going to be more tough fighting ahead in Iraq, and there will be more days of sacrifice and struggle. Yet the enemies of freedom have suffered a real blow today. And we've taken a great stride on the march to victory.''

TIMELINE OF EVENTS: May 20 -- Iraqi leaders form a national unity government.
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 69
SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 721
SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 864

TIMELINE OF EVENTS: June 8 -- U.S. bombs kill Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Al Qaeda's leader in Iraq.
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 61
SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 766
SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 964
QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: June 12 -- ''Ultimately, the Iraqi people are going to have to make up their mind, do they want to live in terror, or do they want to live in peace. And the United States and our coalition will help them realize their ambitions if they choose to live in peace and hope, which we believe they will.''

TIMELINE OF EVENTS: July 9 and Aug. 7 -- Starting dates for phases I and II of a plan to secure Baghdad.
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS
July: 43
Aug.: 65

SECTARIAN ATTACKS
July: 924
Aug.: 656

SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS
July: 1169
Aug.: 743

QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: July 25 -- ''The Iraqi people want to succeed. They want to end this violence. Our strategy is to remain on the offense, including in Baghdad. Under the prime minister's leadership, coalition and Iraqi leaders are modifying their operational concept to bring greater security to the Iraqi capital.''

TIMELINE OF EVENTS: Sept. 11 -- Fifth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 72
SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 870
SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 1,152
QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: Sept. 11 -- ''Our enemies in Iraq are tough and they are committed--but so are Iraqi and coalition forces. We're adapting to stay ahead of the enemy, and we are carrying out a clear plan to ensure that a democratic Iraq succeeds.''

(Oct.)
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 106
SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 996
SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 1,028
QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: Oct. 25 -- ''It's my responsibility to provide the American people with a candid assessment on the way forward. There is tough fighting ahead. The road to victory will not be easy. We should not expect a simple solution. The fact that the fighting is tough does not mean our efforts in Iraq are not worth it.''

TIMELINE OF EVENTS: Nov. 7 -- Midterm elections. Nov. 8 -- Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld resigns.
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 68
SECTARIAN ATTACKS: N.A.
SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: N.A.
QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: Nov. 8 -- ''We
 will continue to adjust to achieve the objective. And I believe that's what the American people want. Somehow it seeped in their conscious that my attitude was just simply 'stay the course.'''

TIMELINE OF EVENTS: Dec. 6 -- The Iraq Study Group releases its report. Dec. 30 -- Saddam Hussein hanged.
U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 111
SECTARIAN ATTACKS: N.A.
SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: N.A.
QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: Dec. 13 -- ''There's a lot of consultations taking place, and as I announced yesterday, I will be delivering my--my plans, after a long deliberation, after steady deliberation. I'm not going to be rushed into making a difficult decision.''

(Sources by Department of Defense; White House transcripts; news reports)(pg. A8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: James A. Baker III, the former secretary of state, and Lee H. Hamilton, the former congressman, testified last month on the findings of the Iraq Study Group. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)
Staff Sgt. Shane Simmons, from Aurora, Colo., with members of his unit, the Army's 172nd Stryker Brigade, as they searched homes in Baghdad in August. (Photo by Scott Nelson/World Picture Network, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
MOSQUE BOMBING -- After the February attack on a Shiite shrine in Samarra, sectarian violence soared, dealing a blow to U.S. strategy.
SWIRLING VIOLENCE -- As bombings in Baghdad rose over the spring and summer, General Casey focused on military successes.
RUMSFELD'S EXIT -- Having ousted the defense secretary, President Bush may bring in a new commander, military officials say. (Photos by Left, Getty Images
center, Scott Nelson/World Picture Network, for The New York Times
right, Gerald Herbert/Associated Press)(pg. A1)Chart: ''A Year of Strategy and Sectarian Strife''Major events of 2006, a year of increasing violence in Iraq.TIMELINE OF EVENTS: Jan. 31 -- President Bush's State of the Union Address.U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 61SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 63SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 180QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH:Jan. 10 -- ''We will see more tough fighting and we will see more sacrifice in 2006, because the enemies of freedom in Iraq continue to sow violence and destruction. We'll also see more progress toward victory.''Jan. 31 -- ''I am confident in our plan for victory
I am confident in the will of the Iraqi people
 I am confident in the skill and spirit of our military. Fellow citizens, we are in this fight to win, and we are winning.''TIMELINE OF EVENTS: Feb. 22 -- Bombing of the Askariya Shrine in Samarra.U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 54SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 333SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 406TIMELINE OF EVENTS: March 19 -- Third anniversary of the invasion of Iraq.U.S. MILITARY DEATHS: 31SECTARIAN ATTACKS: 577SECTARIAN EXECUTIONS: 732QUOTES BY PRESIDENT BUSH: March 20 -- ''The last three years have tested our resolve. The fighting has been tough. The enemy we face has proved to be brutal and relentless. We're adapting our approach to reflect the hard realities on the ground.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%) Surveys and Series; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) David E Sanger; Michael R Gordon; John F Burns; George W (Pres) Bush; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W Jr (Gen) Casey

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007



31 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Dollar's Skid Puts a Glow On the Euro

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
The dollar slumped yesterday and the euro climbed to a three-week high against the currency. 
 A steady slide in the value of the dollar since late 2005, primarily against the euro and the British pound, has steepened over the last month amid indications that interest rates will rise in Europe, while the Federal Reserve is expected to cut rates this year.
At the same time, countries with large dollar holdings are showing a new willingness to dump the dollar in favor of the rising euro, though the current activity is seen as posing little long-term risk to the dollar. 
 Late last month, the United Arab Emirates became the latest country to shift more of its currency reserves away from the dollar, joining Russia, Switzerland, Venezuela and others.
 Those moves coincide with ambiguous signals from China about possibly pulling back from the dollar, and recent word from Iran, the world's fourth-largest oil producer, that it would prefer euros as payment for oil, which is typically priced in dollars.
 But currency experts say that this turn away from the dollar is not likely to do any long-term damage to the currency's value for a number of reasons. First, the motives of central banks that are adding other currencies to their reserves do not appear to be driven by the belief that the euro will eventually supplant the dollar as the world's key currency. Rather, these central banks are doing what investors do to cut risk: diversifying their portfolios.
 Moreover, the amount of currency moved so far has been relatively small in a global market that trades trillions of dollars a day -- only about $2 billion in the case of the United Arab Emirates, for example.
 ''There is some indication that central banks are moving to diversify reserves, but it's at a very slow pace,'' said David Powell, a currency analyst with IDEAglobal. ''Is it the start of a massive shift out of the dollar? I would say no.''
 Yesterday, the euro traded at $1.3272, up from $1.3198 late Friday in New York. The British pound was at $1.9721, up from $1.9586. The United States dollar index, a measure of the dollar's strength against a basket of currencies, fell to 83.23 from 83.65 on Friday. In February 2002, the index was at 120.
 But trading was thinner than usual yesterday as financial markets were closed in the United States, as were markets in Tokyo and Singapore. 
 In 2006, the euro appreciated more than 11 percent against the dollar, while the British pound rose nearly 14 percent against the dollar.
 But the dollar is not likely to start flowing with great speed out of central banks because foreign countries risk devaluing their investments if they do so. Even the slightest suggestion that a country is thinking about swapping dollars for euros risks sending the value of the dollar falling, and in turn hurts all foreign investors in American securities.
 The case of China, which holds more Treasury securities than any other foreign nation except Japan, offers an example of why countries would be reluctant to dump their dollar reserves. In October, the most recent month for which figures are available from the Treasury Department, China held $345 billion in Treasury securities. That was up from $301 billion a year earlier. Its currency holdings total $1 trillion. About $700 billion of that, economists estimate, is in dollars.
 So in many ways, it is in China's best interest not to let the dollar's value slip. Heavy sales of the dollar could make it harder for the People's Bank of China to manage its gradual appreciation of the yuan against the dollar. Anything more abrupt, Beijing fears, would make Chinese goods less competitive in the United States and pose problems domestically for some of the loans from its state banks. And if the dollar drops too much, the value of China's holdings would decrease, limiting the lending ability of its banks.
 Nonetheless, the rising euro is not something the United States or foreign investors can afford to ignore.
 ''You have to start to thinking that the euro can be of some risk to the dollar,'' said Shaun Osbourne, chief currency strategist at TD Securities in Toronto. ''Over the course of the next 5 or 10 years, I don't think there's any danger that the dollar's pre-eminence is threatened. But in the long run, there is certainly the risk that does happen.''
 One issue driving investors from the dollar is the possibility that interest rates in the United States and Europe may move farther apart. 
 Financial markets are currently expecting at least one interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve sometime next year. That contrasts with predictions of further rate increases by the European Central Bank. 
 ''A lot of foreign investors think the Fed is going to cut rates in 2007, and that's a rather dollar-bearish thing,'' said Julia Coronado, senior economist with Barclays Capital.
 Some economists predict the dollar will fall further in 2007. The euro finished 2006 at $1.31, and some economists see it climbing near $1.40 -- a high in its seven-year history.
 ''We believe that the dollar's decline versus the euro has further to run, with $1.38 a possible destination for the pair over the next six months,'' said Tom Levinson, a foreign exchange strategist with ING Wholesale Banking in London. 
 Still, many economists are unwilling to predict that the dollar faces an inevitable demise. ''The dollar is still the world's No. 1 currency, and it's going to stay that way,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for Global Insight. ''The euro is gradually going to become more important, but I don't see it becoming more important than the dollar.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Losing Strength''The dollar has slid steadily over the last year.Graph tracks euros to a dollar since Jan. 2006. (Source by Standard & Poor's)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BRITISH POUND (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%) Currency; Credit; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (51%) Great Britain; United Arab Emirates; Russia; Switzerland; Venezuela; Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



32 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

HELP WANTED AT GOOGLE -- Desperate to hire more engineers and sales people, Google is looking for applicants with interesting backgrounds, not just high grades. [Page C1.]

ROMANIAN FARMER VS. MINING GIANT -- A small-time Romanian farmer is battling an international gold giant to prevent an open-pit mine in Transylvania. With the help of movie stars and environmentally-conscious financiers, he stands a chance. [C1.] 


DOLLAR CONTINUES TO SLIDE -- A steady slide in the dollar since late 2005, primarily against the euro and the British pound, has steepened over the last month. Interest rates are expected to rise in Europe and fall in the United States. [C1.]

AMBIVALENCE ON EURO GROWS -- Eastern newcomers to the European Union grapple over whether they want to use the Euro as their currency, and some Western members are expressing growing ambivalence as well. [C3.]

LAYOFFS IN PHILADELPHIA -- The Philadelphia Inquirer is expected to lay off about 17 percent of its newsroom staff, just seven months after a group of local businessmen took over the newspaper. [C1.]

A MALL GROWS IN BOEING COUNTRY -- A developer who bought 46 acres from Boeing in Renton, Wash., is convinced he has the perfect site for a shopping mall. [C6.]

AMGEN TO BUY HEART DRUG OPTION -- The biotechnology giant Amgen will pay $75 million to Cytokinetics, a smaller company, for an option on an experimental drug to treat heart failure which is entering the second of three stages of clinical trials. [C3.]

THE SMELL OF PROFIT IN DORMS -- A booming business in air fresheners of all kinds has grown in college dormitories. Advertising [C1.]

TECHNOLOGY GIANTS IN PATENT SUIT -- An innovator who failed in a business to distribute movies over the Internet is suing technology giants like Apple, Google and Napster, claiming patent infringement. [C3.]

STEEL MAKER BUYS A RIVAL -- The Nucor Corporation, the maker of steel products, said it had agreed to acquire the Harris Steel Group of Canada for $1.07 billion. [C3.]

HARD ROCK CAFE SUITOR CRIES FOUL -- A rejected suitor for the Hard Rock chain of cafes and casinos claims in a lawsuit that the Seminole Tribe of Florida was the successful buyer because of improper collusion and bid-rigging. [C4.]

STARBUCKS LOSES TRANS FAT -- The Starbucks Corporation is cutting trans fats from the doughnuts, muffins and other treats in half its United States stores, and plans to eventually drop trans fats from all company-operated coffeehouses. [C7.]

HOME-BUILDING GIANT EXPECTS LOSS -- The Lennar Corporation, one of the nation's largest home builders, said on Tuesday that it expected a fourth-quarter loss as the company re-evaluated how much its inventory was worth in a slowing industry. [C4.]

IRISH PLAN MAY BACKFIRE -- Ireland tried to cool its roaring economy by matching a portion of savings for people who locked up their funds for five years. Now that the time is drawing to a close, a huge sum is about to be released, heating up the economy again. [C9.]

WORLDWIDE STOCK MARKET RALLY -- Stock markets worldwide rallied on the first trading day of 2007 on speculation that profit growth and takeovers will support global equities for a fifth year. Indexes in all 16 West European markets gained, while benchmarks in Australia, Hong Kong and Indonesia hit records. [C8.]

QUALCOMM INVESTIGATED -- The South Korean antitrust agency has formed a task force to investigate the licensing and business practices of the wireless technology company Qualcomm, the latest in a string of legal battles facing the company. [C4.]

BAGGAGE THEFT AT HOUSTON -- Five baggage handlers were charged with stealing luggage at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston over the Christmas holiday. [A12.]

ONLINE

GIVING -- A new generation of billionaire businesspeople are trying to harness marketplace forces to do good works. A special report is at nytimes.com/giving.

WAL-MART'S PUSH -- Wal-Mart, the discount retailer, is determined to push energy-saving light bulbs with the help of some unlikely partners. A video report can be found at nytimes.com/business.

STATE OF THE ART -- A top 10 list -- not of the greatest tech products, but of the greatest individual features that surfaced in 2006. A report by David Pogue is at nytimes.com/technology.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Cytokinetics' share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (90%); EURO (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); THEME RESTAURANTS (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (86%); SALES FORCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); CARTELS (73%); SURFACE MINING (72%); INTERNET VIDEO (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (71%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (71%); BRITISH POUND (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (70%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); PATENT LAW (68%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (68%); PATENTS (68%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); BAKED GOODS (66%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (65%); HEART DISEASE (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); CLINICAL TRIALS (65%); STUDENT HOUSING (64%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (63%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); AMGEN INC (83%); NUCOR CORP (81%); STARBUCKS CORP (81%); LENNAR CORP (80%); APPLE INC (64%); BOEING CO (55%); HARRIS STEEL GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (83%); NUE (NYSE) (81%); SBUX (NASDAQ) (81%); LEN (NYSE) (80%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (64%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (81%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (81%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (81%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (81%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (81%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (80%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (80%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (64%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (64%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (64%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) ROMANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRELAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



33 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Global Rally On First Day Of Trading In New Year

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stock markets worldwide rallied on the first trading day of 2007 on speculation that profit growth and takeovers would support global equities for a fifth year.
 Share indexes in all 16 West European markets gained, while benchmarks in Australia, Hong Kong and Indonesia climbed to records. In Latin America, equity gauges in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico headed toward all-time highs.
The global advance came as the market in the United States was closed for the funeral of former President Gerald R. Ford. Stock-index futures trading electronically on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange rose. In other markets, United States Treasury prices rose, the dollar fell to its lowest level in three weeks against the euro, and crude futures retreated in electronic trading in New York. 
 ''We are still looking at a picture of a fairly prosperous year in 2007, which will lead to more earnings growth,'' said Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities in London. ''Mergers and acquisitions will remain a feature, and there is still a considerable amount of confidence in the outlook for economic growth.''
 In Europe, BNP Paribas led financial stocks higher and BHP Billiton advanced with mining companies after gold traded at a three-week high. Samsung Electronics and Royal Ahold gained after Wal-Mart Stores reported higher sales.
 Europe's Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index rose 1.3 percent, to 369.86, the highest since December 2000. The Morgan Stanley Capital International Asia-Pacific excluding Japan index added 1.3 percent to a record 402.58, the biggest gain in almost two weeks.
 Markets were closed in Japan, China, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Singapore and Thailand for the holidays.
 In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 added 1.5 percent. Germany's DAX climbed 1.3 percent, and France's CAC 40 advanced 1.4 percent.
 BNP Paribas, the French bank, rose 2.5 percent, to 84.7 euros. Shares of BHP Billiton climbed 2.9 percent, to 962 pence. 
 The MSCI World Index, a global equity benchmark, has rebounded 20 percent from last year's low on June 13 to a record high as a wave of acquisitions and earnings that beat analysts' estimates underpinned stocks.
 Canada's Standard & Poor's Composite Index gained 0.12 percent after the Harris Steel Group, a metals producer, agreed to be bought by Nucor for about $1.07 billion.
 Brazilian stocks rose, led by Petroleo Brasileiro, on prospects that demand for Brazilian exports will stay strong as the global economy grows. The Bovespa index of the most-traded stocks on the Sao Paulo exchange rose 2 percent, to 45,382.61.
 Mexico's Bolsa climbed 0.8 percent to 26,664.45, and Argentina's Merval advanced 2.3 percent, to 2,139.14.
 Gold for immediate delivery rose $3.80, or 0.6 percent, to $640.60 an ounce in London after earlier trading at $641.20, the highest since Dec. 6.
 Asian stocks rose the most in almost two weeks, as benchmarks in Australia, Hong Kong and Indonesia set new highs.
 Samsung, South Korea's largest exporter, added 2 percent, to 625,000 won. Hong Kong's Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings, which makes sports shoes for brands such as Nike, climbed 1.8 percent, to 25.15 Hong Kong dollars.
 Interest rates in the United States declined slightly. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.68 percent, from 4.70 percent late Friday, and the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 5/32, to 9917/32.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auctions of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.753	97.522	High Rate	4.930	4.900	Investment Rate	5.062	5.094	Low Rate	4.880	4.865	Median Rate	4.900	4.880	Total applied for	$42,950,685	$40,420,900	Accepted	$24,075,905	$19,912,965	Noncompetitive	$1,887,882	$1,625,955	

Both issues are dated Jan. 2, 2007. The three-month bills mature on April 5, 2007, and the six-month bills mature on July 5, 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); FUTURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (88%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (79%); MERGERS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); EURO (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); MINES & MINING (51%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (91%); BHP BILLITON PLC (84%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (56%); BREWIN DOLPHIN HOLDINGS PLC (56%); BNP PARIBAS SA (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); HARRIS STEEL GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (91%); AH (BIT) (91%); AH (AMS) (91%); BLT (LSE) (84%); BIBLT (JSE) (84%); BBL (NYSE) (84%); SMSN (LSE) (56%); 005930 (KSE) (56%); BRW (LSE) (56%); BNP (PAR) (55%); BNP (BIT) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (91%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (91%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (84%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (84%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) EUROPE (94%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); INDONESIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



34 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: A Time of Temptation For the Thrifty of Ireland 

BYLINE: By EAMON QUINN

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
A government effort to cool Ireland's roaring economy by encouraging people to save is threatening to backfire.
 In 2001, Ireland encouraged citizens to set money aside each month in special accounts by offering to match a portion of those savings. The catch was that savers had to lock up their money for five years.
 About 1.1 million Irish savers -- or 40 percent of the adult population -- amassed 16 billion euros ($21 billion) in savings, a sum that is about 10 percent of the country's annual gross domestic product. 
 But now that the five years are over, the wealth is being unleashed, and the plan may do exactly what it was meant to prevent: add fuel to the economy of one of the most competitive and fastest-growing countries in Europe.
 The expected outcome underscores the trickiness in taming surging economies -- a task that the authorities in China are grappling with. It could also serve as a case study for countries, like the United States, which are looking for ways to motivate spendthrift consumers to save more to rebalance their economies.
 Edel Byrne, 30, an operations director for a large chain of restaurants in Dublin, is looking forward to spending the 20,000 euros she will have accumulated when the five-year lockup ends in the spring. She has her eyes on a Marni handbag -- the line sells on the Internet for 280 to 1,060 euros -- and airline tickets to Rio de Janeiro, Milan and Paris. She plans to spend some of what is left on a house that she recently bought in the Dublin suburbs.
 In 2002, Ms. Byrne would never have dreamed of setting aside as much as 254 euros each month for five years if the government had not made it worth her while: It gave her one euro for every four she paid into her so-called Special Savings Incentive Account, or S.S.I.A.
 For Ms. Byrne, the government incentive was worth 63.50 euros each month. Her own monthly payments, the government bonus and the interest she earned were not accessible as the savings accumulated.
 Some of the accounts have already matured since the program opened in May 2001. But most savers, who on average have accumulated 15,000 euros, according to industry estimates, delayed opening the accounts until the months before enrollment ended in April 2002.
 The freed savings will come on top of an estimated 5 billion euros in increased public spending and tax cuts that the Irish government plans to pump into the economy in 2007, an election year.
 If the Irish choose to spend their savings over a few months rather than tap the personal wealth pool over two or three years, inflation, especially for services like hotels and restaurants, could accelerate at a time when prices are already rising rapidly.
 ''The 16 billion euros is a phenomenal amount of money,'' said Jim Power, chief economist at Friends First, a pension and investment firm in Dublin. ''There is of course an inflationary risk. There is already an inflationary risk notwithstanding the S.S.I.A. effect.''
 The savings plan was devised by Charlie McCreevy, the Irish finance minister at the time and now the European Union's commissioner for the internal market, who wanted to tame a potential threat of inflation to the Irish economy.
 In 2000, consumer prices in Ireland rose 5.6 percent. That figure had moderated to 2.5 percent for 2005, but it started creeping up again in 2006, to a 4.4 percent pace in November, and is expected to stay relatively high at about 3.5 percent in 2007, according to some economists who fear the bounty from the savings accounts could inject too much money into the economy over a short period.
 But nobody really knows what will happen, which is why there have been widespread surveys of the intentions of savers like Ms. Byrne.
 Banks eager to hold on to the large sums are offering new but less generous saving products. Savers whose special accounts have already matured appear to be taking their time in deciding what to do with the money.
 Similar savings plans by other European governments have not been as popular, probably because the cash incentives were much less generous than those offered by the Irish plan. In Britain, for example, tax-efficient savings plans like Individual Savings Accounts, or I.S.A.'s, operate through the tax system rather than with cash incentives.
 Consumer spending in Ireland is less than 50 percent of gross domestic product, low by European standards, according to Dan McLaughlin, chief economist at Bank of Ireland. According to the Irish Central Statistics Office, the country had a household savings rate of 11.9 percent of income in 2003, compared with 2.1 percent in the United States and 11.1 percent in France.
 On Grafton Street, one of central Dublin's main shopping streets, evidence of the usual seasonal surge in spending has not been hard to detect. But whether spending will be further fueled as Irish consumers anticipate tapping their savings is difficult to judge, said Stephen Sealey, a buying director for the department store Brown Thomas. It sells Hermes handbags for as much as 10,000 euros ($13,200) and Chanel watches for 7,500 euros ($9,940).
 ''Over the last four years, we have seen a steady growth in luxury goods,'' he said, adding that buoyant consumer spending ''is driving double-digit year-on-year growth across the business.''
 Mr. McLaughlin, at Bank of Ireland, said that surveys by his bank indicated that a slice of the special accounts would be spent on foreign holidays and home renovations. He forecast that spending from the accounts would help support the economy over the next three or four years at a time when rising interest rates are adding to the costs of housing.
 But if Ms. Byrne is any indication, not all the money will be spent.
 ''The Irish are good at treating themselves these days, but I would feel guilty to spend over half the amount on luxuries,'' she said. ''I do not think you should just throw away five years of hard savings.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Eamon Quinn

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) IRELAND (95%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%) Ireland; Ireland

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



35 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Imminent At Inquirer

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The Philadelphia Inquirer is expected to announce today that it will lay off 68 to 71 employees, or about 17 percent of the newsroom staff, just seven months after a group of local businessmen took over the newspaper and its sister publication, The Daily News. 
 The Daily News is exempt from this round of cuts. 
The announcements began last night as editors called employees at home. The news will become official today when top editors begin a series of meetings with each department. With The Inquirer's advertising revenue and circulation down, employees have known for months that layoffs were coming and have been finding their place on the seniority list so that they could try to make plans. 
 ''The guillotine has finally fallen,'' said Dawn Fallik, 36, a medical reporter for The Inquirer who has been at the paper for four years and will be laid off. ''In a way, it's kind of a relief.''
 The Newspaper Guild, which represents newsroom and other employees at the two papers, just concluded bitter contract negotiations that nearly led to a strike. Editors and reporters had been told that if they did not make economic concessions, up to 150 people could be laid off.
 ''This number is significantly less than the numbers that had been discussed earlier,'' said Jay Devine, a spokesman for Brian P. Tierney, the publisher of the papers and one of the new owners. 
 Still, the layoffs will continue a contraction of The Inquirer, which in its heyday in the 1980s and 1990s had a staff of more than 500, with 15 foreign bureaus. Today, the staff numbers about 400, with one foreign bureau. It lost more than 75 people in buyouts a year ago. The Daily News cut 25, leaving its newsroom with about 109.
 Among those who received calls last night and was told he was losing his job was Jeff Shields, a reporter who covers gambling, a young and growing industry in Pennsylvania. 
 ''These last two weeks, knowing this was coming, have really been Kafkaesque,'' said Mr. Shields, 41, who has been at the paper for almost four years. He said he hoped to parlay his knowledge of the gambling industry into a job at a paying Web site or doing research. 
 A subject he would like to write about is the effect of casinos on their hometowns -- ''the kind of story you might pitch to an editor but in this day and age would never get approved,'' he said, alluding to declining ambitions at many daily newspapers.
 His editor, Eugene Kiely, 47, who made the call to Mr. Shields, is also leaving The Inquirer, although voluntarily, and will take a job at USA Today. He said he wanted to continue his newspaper career at a place he thought would be ''stable.''
 The Philadelphia papers were sold in March by Knight Ridder to the McClatchy newspaper group, which in turn sold them to a group of businessmen, led by Mr. Tierney, an advertising and public relations executive. 
 Mr. Tierney hailed his entry into the newspaper business as a turning point, both for the Philadelphia papers and the industry, as he took the reins from a distant corporate owner and began a closely watched experiment in local private ownership without having to answer to Wall Street.
 But things changed in the summer as advertising revenue for papers across the country plummeted and circulation continued its years of decline. At The Inquirer, the consolidation of department stores and telecommunications companies has meant fewer ads, with revenue falling 10 percent in September 2006, from September 2005. Daily circulation fell 7.6 percent, to 330,000, in the last year. Sunday circulation was down 4.5 percent, to 682,000, in the same period.
 The newsroom was initially cautious but hopeful when Mr. Tierney took over. Since the contract settlement, however, the mood has shifted to resignation.
 ''If it's a new day for local journalism, it's a sour day,'' said Stu Bykofsky, a columnist at The Daily News. At least with Knight Ridder, he said, there were buyouts, not layoffs.
 A few years ago, The Inquirer hired more than 40 young reporters as part of a major expansion into the suburbs. Now, many of those jobs are being eliminated. 
 In the recent contract negotiations, the company won the right to exempt certain reporting beats from seniority rules so it could keep some of the younger reporters, depending on how much time they had spent on a beat. Diane Mastrull, 46, a reporter and Guild negotiator for the newsroom, said this winnowing process could set reporters against each other as they add up time spent on various beats.
 ''We'll now watch a really ugly process,'' she said. ''And despite all of that sacrifice at the negotiating table, we're still going to watch 70 people involuntarily walk out the door.''
 Mr. Devine, the spokesman for Mr. Tierney, said that the contract settlement with the Guild and nine other unions at the papers were an important milestone in saving money at the paper.
 Circulation at The Inquirer is already nudging up because of new marketing campaigns and a focus on the suburbs, he said, calling it ''the first step in getting advertisers interested.'' Mr. Devine said that investments in new production technology would bolster the appeal to advertisers. 
 Mr. Tierney, he said, ''remains buoyant'' about the future of the newspapers. 
 But some of those out of a job have a different view.
 ''I loved being a reporter, and I hope to continue writing,'' Ms. Fallik said, ''but I'm open to something completely different.''
 Mr. Shields said: ''Newspapers have not shown a whole lot of economic promise, so for me this is a chance to look around and maybe become part of a more dynamic business model. This could be the best thing that ever happened to me.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about layoffs at The Philadelphia Inquirer referred incorrectly to the newspaper's bureaus during the 1980s. The paper had a total of about 15 national and foreign bureaus; it did not have 15 foreign bureaus

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian P. Tierney, a local businessman, led a group that bought the Philadelphia newspapers from McClatchy last summer. (Photo by George Widman/Associated Press)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); GAMING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (55%) Newspapers; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

ORGANIZATION: THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (55%) Philadelphia Inquirer; Knight Ridder; Mcclatchy Co

PERSON: Brian P Tierney; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



36 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: It's the Year To Keep an Eye On Paychecks 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Do you remember all those books from the 1980s and '90s explaining why the United States couldn't keep up with Japan? Once they were proved wrong, pundits came forth with a new batch of titles to explain why the American boom might last forever. The masterwork of the genre was ''Dow 36,000.''
 After the Dow sank, the optimists took a few years off before re-emerging. My favorite recent entry on the shelf of misbegotten titles was ''Are You Missing the Real Estate Boom?'' from 2005.
 Making economic predictions, suffice it to say, is often a fool's game, but it is played with particular relish every time the calendar turns to a new year. Today, let's try a slightly different approach. 
 There is no way to know what 2007 will bring. You can make a pretty good argument that the country is due for a financial crisis -- or that the economy is about to swing up again. But while the answer may be uncertain, it's clear that the single biggest economic question of the year will probably be this: 
 Will the surge in the paychecks of ordinary Americans continue in 2007?
 In 2006, a slowly improving job market finally grew strong enough to bring solid pay increases to most workers. Thanks to falling oil prices, meanwhile, inflation plummeted. As a result, the real average wage of rank-and-file workers -- a group that makes up about 80 percent of the work force -- has risen more than 2 percent over the last year. That pace has been reached only one other time in the last three decades, at the peak of the great 1990s boom.
 So for arguably the first time in the 21st century, a year has just ended with most Americans economically better off than they were when it began. Besides bringing a much-needed improvement in American living standards, this wage surge is also creating a fascinating political dynamic.
 When the Democrats formally take control of Congress tomorrow, they will do so with a firm belief that economic anxiety helped bring about their victory. They are probably right, too. For most of the last five years, wages weren't keeping up with inflation, debt was rising and the number of people without health insurance was growing. In exit polls on Election Day, only 30 percent of respondents said they expected life for the next generation of Americans to be better than life today.
 But there has been no better predictor of the public's mood over the last three decades than the direction of real wages. When they are down, as they were in 1980 and 1992, political earthquakes tend to follow. When wages are rising, fears that seemed on their way to becoming permanent start to disappear.
 Before the present wage surge began, back in the fall, the country seemed to be on course for a serious debate about how to deal with rising inequality. Despite a solid economic expansion that started in late 2001, most families weren't benefiting. Even the average raises for college graduates, who had done so well in the 1990s, fell behind inflation. Only the very rich -- the Google and Goldman Sachs set -- were doing well.
 ''In the age of globalization and outsourcing, and with a vast underground labor pool from illegal immigration, the average American worker is seeing a different life and a troubling future,'' Jim Webb, the newly elected Democratic Senator from Virginia, wrote in The Wall Street Journal last year. 
 To varying degrees, the Democrats now starting their 2008 presidential campaigns have been making a similar argument. The mood is -- or, depending on your view, was -- similar to the one that afflicted the country in the early and mid-1990s. 
 Back then, voters fired or demoted nearly every powerful politician in Washington within two years, from George H. W. Bush (in 1992) to the Democratic leaders of Congress (in 1994). A couple of years later, Newsweek magazine ran one of the more alarmist covers you'll see: head shots of chief executives who had ordered layoffs next to the headline ''Corporate Killers.'' Just three years after that article, with the '90s boom at its peak, polls showed American optimism at an all-time high. 
 It isn't too difficult to see how the recent pessimism may go the way of ''Corporate Killers'' headlines. Consumer confidence has already started rising, with people saying they remain anxious about the future yet feel better about the present, according to the University of Michigan.
 Some economists and politicians have tried to play down the recent pay increases by saying that they're nothing more than a reflection of a one-time drop in oil prices. But that's not really accurate. Nominal pay -- the numbers you see in your paycheck -- has actually been rising at a good clip. It has increased more than 4 percent over the last year, just as it did at the peak of the 1980s and 1990s expansions. 
 The trouble until the last few months was that inflation was unusually high. Now that it has settled back around 2 percent, not much below its average of the last decade, the current expansion is indeed benefiting most workers. 
 As Edward Lazear, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, points out, the strong hiring of the last few months suggests the wage gains will continue. ''There's nothing that says this has to turn around,'' he said.
 On the other hand, there are a few reasons to worry. The housing slump has caused economic growth to fall to a dangerously low level. Overnight shipments of FedEx packages, a good economic barometer, have slowed sharply in recent months. 
 And it's not as if the country used the expansion of the last five years to put its economic house in order. ''We're all hoping that this is not another episodic movement of real wages before they fall again,'' Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, said. ''But I don't see us positioned in the same way we were in the mid-90s prior to the huge takeoff.''
 My own guess -- see, writers can't help themselves -- is that pay will keep rising in 2007. But given the budget deficit, Iraq and other problems, the economy doesn't seem on the verge of another golden period like the late '90s.
 Maybe this combination wouldn't be the worst thing. It would give workers an overdue raise, but it would also remind us that technology and globalization really have changed the rules. Absent a speculative bubble, like the one in the 1990s that artificially heated up the economy, pay increases don't come as easily for most families as they once did. Even in the best case, 2007 will be the sixth year of the current expansion and only the first full year of healthy pay gains.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Wages Set the Mood''As American pay rises or falls, consumer confidence typically follows.Graph tracks Real average wages, Year-over-year percentage change since 1980.Graph tracks Consumer confidence, Monthly, 1984=100 since 1980.(Sources by U.S. Department of Labor
University of Michigan
 National Bureau of Economic Research)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (64%); POLITICS (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); United States Politics and Government; Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



37 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Enron's Last Victim: American Markets

BYLINE: By William A. Niskanen. 
William A. Niskanen, chairman of the Cato Institute, was acting chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ronald Reagan.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN the new Congress begins its session tomorrow, two familiar faces will not be present: Senator Paul S. Sarbanes and Representative Michael G. Oxley, who are both retiring. Mr. Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat, has served for 30 years; Mr. Oxley, an Ohio Republican, for 26 -- and their main legacy will be their joint attack on corporate corruption, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
 The act, which was passed hastily in the wake of the Enron scandal, was surely well intentioned. But it has proven counterproductive in the extreme, and Congress would best honor the departing lawmakers by repealing it. 
Sarbanes-Oxley has seriously harmed American corporations and financial markets without increasing investor confidence. The section of the law requiring companies to perform internal audits has turned out to be far more costly than proponents projected, especially for smaller firms. These costs have led some small companies to go private, hardly a victory for public oversight, and some foreign firms to withdraw their stocks from American exchanges. 
 In addition, the average ''listing premium'' -- the benefit that companies receive by listing their stocks on American exchanges -- has declined by 19 percentage points since 2002. This explains why the percentage of worldwide initial public offerings on our exchanges dropped to 5 percent last year, from 50 percent in 2000.
 Other costs associated with the act may turn out to be more important. For example, more stringent financial regulations and increased penalties for accounting errors may make senior managers too risk-averse. Most chief executives are not accountants, so the requirement that they personally affirm tax reports -- at the risk of jail time should anything be amiss -- may make them reluctant to partake in perfectly legitimate activities.
 Paradoxically, Sarbanes-Oxley's strict rules on oversight by boards of directors would have been insufficient to prevent the collapse of Enron. By the act's standards, Enron had a model board; most members were distinguished professionals. The chairman of the audit committee was a former accounting professor and dean of the Stanford Business School. 
 Nor would the act's provisions to create a stronger Securities and Exchange Commission have made a difference. The commission had been aware of Enron's accounting techniques since 1992 and had never thought to question them.
 Nor was Sarbanes-Oxley necessary in prosecuting the senior managers of Enron, WorldCom and other corporations where fraud was committed -- all have been convicted of accounting fraud under laws predating the act. 
 The negative repercussions of the act on businesses might have been worth it if the act had achieved its primary goal: substantially increasing the confidence of investors in the accuracy of the accounts of firms listed on the exchanges. But that does not seem to have happened.
 The best measure of investor confidence is the price-earnings ratio -- the price that investors are willing to pay for each dollar of a company's reported earnings. The overall price-earnings ratio for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, however, has declined continuously since the Sarbanes-Oxley Act was being drafted in the spring of 2002. 
 Several leaders of the new Democratic Congressional majority have endorsed a relaxation of the audit requirements and other parts of the act. That is encouraging, but it is not enough. The basic structure of Sarbanes-Oxley is unsound. 
 One big problem is that the act nationalized the rules for corporate governance, reducing the value of the competition among the states for setting such rules. In addition, the act failed to resolve the major conflict of interest created when auditing firms are paid by the companies they audit. Rather than creating a regulation to change the system, Sarbanes-Oxley created an expensive and arguably unconstitutional new regulatory agency to regulate the audit firms' activities. 
 And, as is too often the case, Congress has rewarded the failures of the very bureaucracies that failed to keep up with Enron -- doubling the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Tinkering is not enough. Sarbanes-Oxley continues to discourage smaller companies from trading publicly and foreign companies from listing their stocks on American exchanges. In the eyes of investors, it hasn't cleaned up any corruption, it has only forced companies to jump through hoops. As Senator Sarbanes and Representative Oxley drift into retirement, their act should retire with them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); ETHICS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); BONDS (74%); AUDITS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); DELISTINGS (72%); GOING PRIVATE (71%); SCANDALS (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Law and Legislation; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN P SARBANES (90%) William A Niskanen

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



38 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Ensuring College Access

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Public Universities Vie to Join the Top 10 in Academic Rankings'' (news article, Dec. 20): 
 The option of a private college education has long been vital for first-generation collegians, immigrants, minorities and others who are more likely to succeed with individual guidance and smaller class sizes, which public institutions cannot often provide. But the same economic forces driving students with privileged backgrounds to compete for admission to public universities threaten middle- and lower-income students' access to public and private institutions alike.
Congress recently responded by extending the tax deduction for families' tuition expenses, and New York's private colleges and universities have made a fourfold increase in grants, to more than $2 billion annually, since 1990. Yet New York State's tuition-assistance program raised its top student-aid levels by just 21 percent over that time period. For the last five years, neither that program nor the federal Pell grant program has raised top awards at all.
 Policy makers must reinvigorate their commitment to the public-private partnership so future generations can achieve their goals for a higher education.

Gale Stevens Haynes
Provost, Long Island University
Brooklyn Campus
Brooklyn, Dec. 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (95%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition ; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%) Long Island University

PERSON: Gale Stevens Haynes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



39 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2412 words

HEADLINE: A Surprising Secret to a Long Life: Stay in School

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
James Smith, a health economist at the RAND Corporation, has heard a variety of hypotheses about what it takes to live a long life -- money, lack of stress, a loving family, lots of friends. But he has been a skeptic.
 Yes, he says, it is clear that on average some groups in every society live longer than others. The rich live longer than the poor, whites live longer than blacks in the United States. Longevity, in general, is not evenly distributed in the population. But what, he asks, is cause and what is effect? And how can they be disentangled?
 He is venturing, of course, into one of the prevailing mysteries of aging, the persistent differences seen in the life spans of large groups. In every country, there is an average life span for the nation as a whole and there are average life spans for different subsets, based on race, geography, education and even churchgoing. 
 But the questions for researchers like Dr. Smith are why? And what really matters? 
 The answers, he and others say, have been a surprise. The one social factor that researchers agree is consistently linked to longer lives in every country where it has been studied is education. It is more important than race; it obliterates any effects of income. 
 Year after year, in study after study, says Richard Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging, education ''keeps coming up.'' 
 And, health economists say, those factors that are popularly believed to be crucial -- money and health insurance, for example, pale in comparison.
 Dr. Smith explains: ''Giving people more Social Security income, or less for that matter, will not really affect people's health. It is a good thing to do for other reasons but not for health.'' 
 Health insurance, too, he says, ''is vastly overrated in the policy debate.'' 
 Instead, Dr. Smith and others say, what may make the biggest difference is keeping young people in school. A few extra years of school is associated with extra years of life and vastly improved health decades later, in old age. 
 It is not the only factor, of course.
 There is smoking, which sharply curtails life span. There is a connection between having a network of friends and family and living a long and healthy life. And there is evidence that people with more powerful jobs and, presumably, with more control over their work lives, are healthier and longer lived.
 But there is little dispute about the primacy of education.
 ''If you were to ask me what affects health and longevity,'' says Michael Grossman, a health economist at the City University of New York, ''I would put education at the top of my list.''

Graduate Student Finds Answer
 The first rigorous effort to decide whether education really changes people so they live longer began in a most inauspicious way.
 It was 1999 and a Columbia University graduate student, Adriana Lleras-Muney, was casting about for a topic for her doctoral dissertation in economics. She found an idea in a paper published in 1969. Three economists noted the correlation between education and health and gave some advice: If you want to improve health, you will get more return by investing in education than by investing in medical care.
 It had been an inflammatory statement, Dr. Lleras-Muney says. And for good reason. It could only be true if education in and of itself caused good health.
 But there were at least two other possibilities.
 Maybe sick children did not go to school, or dropped out early because they were ill. Or maybe education was a proxy for wealth, and it was wealth that led to health. It could be that richer parents who gave their children everything, including better nutrition, better medical care and a better education, had children who, by virtue of being wealthy, lived longer. 
 How, she asked herself, could she sort out causes and effects? It was the chicken-and-egg problem that plagues such research.
 The answer came one day when Dr. Lleras-Muney was reading another economics paper. It indicated that about 100 years ago, different states started passing laws forcing children to go to school for longer periods. She knew what to do.
 ''The idea was, when a state changed compulsory schooling from, say, six years to seven years, would the people who were forced to go to school for six years live as long as the people the next year who had to go for seven years,'' Dr. Lleras-Muney asked. 
 All she would have to do was to go back and find the laws in the different states and then use data from the census to find out how long people lived before and after the law in each state was changed.
 ''I was very excited for about three seconds,'' she says. Then she realized how onerous it could be to comb through the state archives. 
 But when her analysis was finished, Dr. Lleras-Muney says, ''I was surprised, I was really surprised.'' It turned out that life expectancy at age 35 was extended by as much as one and a half years simply by going to school for one extra year.
 Her prize-winning paper appeared in Review of Economic Studies. And she ended up with a job as an assistant professor at Princeton. Now, others papers have appeared, examining the effects of changed laws on compulsory education in Sweden, Denmark, England and Wales. In every country, compelling children to spend a longer time in school led to better health.
 ''You might think that forcing someone to go to school who does not want to be there may not be the same thing as going to school because you want to,'' Dr. Lleras-Muney said. ''That did not seem to be the case.''
 Not everyone was convinced. 
 Victor Fuchs, a health economist at Stanford, points out that it is not clear how or why education would lead to a longer life.
 And, he said, there are other mysteries. For example, women increased their years of schooling more than men have in recent decades. But men are catching up with women in their life spans.
 And it might be expected that after a certain point, more years of school would not add to a person's life span. That, however, is not what the data shows. The education effect never wanes. But most researchers say they are swayed by Dr. Lleras-Muney's work and the studies in other countries. That, though, leaves the question of why the education effect occurs.
 Dr. Lleras-Muney and others point to one plausible explanation -- as a group, less educated people are less able to plan for the future and to delay gratification. If true, that may, for example, explain the differences in smoking rates between more educated people and less educated ones.
 Smokers are at least twice as likely to die at any age as people who never smoked, says Samuel Preston, a demographer at the University of Pennsylvania. And not only are poorly educated people more likely to smoke but, he says, ''everybody knows that smoking can be deadly,'' and that includes the poorly educated.
 But education, Dr. Smith at RAND finds, may somehow teach people to delay gratification. For example, he reported that in one large federal study of middle-aged people, those with less education were less able to think ahead. 
 ''Most of adherence is unpleasant,'' Dr. Smith says. ''You have to be willing to do something that is not pleasant now and you have to stay with it and think about the future.''
 He deplores the dictums to live in the moment or to live for today. That advice, Dr. Smith says, is ''the worst thing for your health.''

An Observation on the Street
 In the late 1970's, Lisa Berkman, now a professor of public policy at the Harvard School of Public Health, took at part-time job at a San Francisco health care center. It drew people from Chinatown and the city's Italian neighborhood, North Beach, as well as from the Tenderloin district, a poor area where homeless people lived on the streets and mentally ill people roamed. And she noticed something striking.
 ''In Chinatown and North Beach, there were these tightly bound social networks,'' Dr. Berkman recalls. ''You saw old people with young people. In the Tenderloin, people were just sort of dumped. People were really isolated and did not have ways of figuring out how to make things work.''
 A few years later, she was haunted by that observation. She had entered graduate school and was studying Seventh-day Adventists when she began to wonder whether the standard explanation for their longer lives -- a healthy, vegetarian diet -- was enough. 
 ''They were at decreased risk from many, many diseases, even ones where diet was not implicated,'' Dr. Berkman says. And, she adds, ''it seemed they simply had a slower rate of aging.''
 Seventh-day Adventists, like the people in Chinatown and North Beach, had ''incredibly cohesive social networks,'' Dr. Berkman notes. Could that be the clue?
 Thirty years later, studies have borne out her hunch.
 The risks of being socially isolated are ''phenomenal,'' Dr. Berkman says, associated with twofold to fivefold increases in mortality rates. And the correlations emerged in study after study and in country after country. 
 Yet, Dr. Berkman adds, there was that perennial question: Did social isolation shorten lives or were people isolated because they were sick and frail and at great risk of death?
 She knows that sometimes ill health leads to social isolation. But, Dr. Berkman says, the more she investigated, the more evidence she found that social isolation might also lead to poor health and a shorter life by, for example, increasing stress and making it harder to get assistance when ill. 
 But researchers also warn that their findings that education and, to a lesser degree, social networks, may directly affect health do not necessarily mean that other hypotheses would also hold up. The cautionary tale, health economists say, is the story of the link between health and wealth.
 Over and over again, studies show that health is linked to wealth. It even matters where a person lives.
 For example, in a new analysis of Medicare beneficiaries, Stephanie Raymond and Kristen Bronner of Dartmouth College find that the lowest death rates are in the wealthiest places. So in San Francisco, with a per capita income of $57,496, just 4.16 percent of Medicare beneficiaries die each year. But in Tuscaloosa, Ala, whose per capita income is $24,257, the annual death rate was 5.97 percent. 
 Race was not a large factor.
 ''If you control for where people live, the disparities between black and white mortality rates become much smaller,'' said Jonathan Skinner, a Dartmouth health economist.
 An obvious explanation is that wealth buys health. And it seems plausible. Poorer people, at least in the United States, are less likely to have health insurance or access to medications. 
 But Dr. Fuchs says, then why don't differences between rich and poor shrink in countries where everyone has health care?
 ''All you have to do is look at the experience of countries like England that have had health insurance for more than 40 years,'' he says. ''There is no diminution in the class differentials. It's been the same in Sweden. It's true everywhere.''
 In fact, Dr. Smith says, the wealth-health connection, at least among adults, goes in the wrong direction. It is not that lower incomes lead to poor health so much as that poor health leads to lower incomes, he found.

A Skewing of the Numbers
 Sick people tend to have modest out-of-pocket medical expenses, but often are unable to work or unable to work full time. 
 The result can be a drastic and precipitous and long-lasting drop in income. As the ranks of middle- and upper-income populations become depleted of people who are ill, there is a skewing of the data so healthy people are disproportionately richer. 
 That effect emerged when Dr. Smith analyzed data from the National Institute on Aging's National Health and Retirement Survey, a national sample of 7,600 American households with at least one person aged 51 to 61. 
 If someone developed cancer, heart disease or lung disease -- which will affect about a fifth of people aged 51 to 61 over the next eight years -- the household's income declined by an average of more than $37,000. And its assets -- its wealth -- fell by $49,000 over the ensuing eight years, even though out-of-pocket medical expenses were just $4,000. 
 Dr. Smith also asked whether getting richer made people healthier, an effect that could translate into a longer life. It does not, he concluded after studying the large increases in income during the stock market surge of the 1990s.
 ''I find almost no role of financial anything in the onset of disease,'' Dr. Smith says. ''That's an almost throw-you-out-of-the-room thing,'' he confesses, but the data, he and other economists insist, is consistent.
 Income, says Dr. Preston, ''is so heavily influenced by health itself.''

Much More Than Genes and Luck
 As director of the National Institute on Aging, Dr. Hodes often speaks to policy makers, giving briefings on the latest scientific findings. But, he and others say, all too often there is a disconnect. 
 There are some important findings: Health and nutrition early in life, even prenatally, can affect health in middle and old age and can affect how long people live.
 For the most part, genes have little effect on life spans. Controlling heart disease risk factors, like smoking, cholesterol, blood pressure and diabetes, pays off in a more vigorous old age and a longer life. And it seems increasingly likely that education plays a major role in health and life spans.
 And then there is the question of what to do. It might seem logical to act now, pouring money into education or child health, for example.
 But scientists often say they would like good evidence beforehand that a program that sounds like it would make a difference, like keeping students in school longer, really works. And if the goal is longer and healthier lives, is that the most cost-effective way to spend public money? 
 There are just so many questions remaining, says Richard Suzman, a program director at the National Institute on Aging. Even studies showing that, for many people, the die may be cast early in life, do not reveal how best to make changes.
 ''We have only a vague idea of when and where early experience links to old age or when and where to intervene,'' Dr. Suzman says.
 ''When it comes to changing things,'' says Dr. Skinner, the Dartmouth economist, ''we are in uncharted territory.''

The New Age
 This is last of four articles looking at the science of aging. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Wednesday with the continuation of a front-page article about links between education and longevity misstated a correlation. People with more education are more likely -- not less -- to have had at least one alcoholic drink per month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); AGING (89%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); GEOGRAPHY (68%) Longevity; Research; Surveys and Series; Education and Schools; Longevity

COMPANY: RAND CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%)

PERSON: Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



40 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Fall Just a Bit; Brokers See 'Soft Landing'

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Sale prices for Manhattan apartments fell in the last quarter of 2006, while the pace of sales was reported to be strong and the backlog of unsold apartments fell, according to several market studies released yesterday by large real estate brokerage firms. 
 The new quarterly numbers led brokers and market analysts to conclude that the Manhattan real estate market -- with its legendary high prices -- appeared to have so far escaped the worst of the real estate market excesses, like large price cuts by developers, reported across the country. 
''It shows us that we hit the soft landing that a lot of people were hoping for,'' said Gregory J. Heym, an economist who prepared market studies for two brokerage firms, Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property. 
 The new figures were also reported in a series of competitive and sometimes contradictory studies. One report, released by Prudential Douglas Elliman, reported a 5 percent decline in the average apartment sale price, compared with the previous quarter, while one by the Corcoran Group put the decline at 1.5 percent. Both put the average sale price for all apartments at more than $1.2 million. 
 A third study by Mr. Heym showed that average apartment prices actually increased by 5 percent from the prior quarter. But even this study showed weakness in the market. It found that prices for co-ops, the older apartments that make up most of Manhattan's residential real estate, declined by 5 percent, with these declines offset by increased sale prices for condominiums. He said more than half the sales were in new luxury buildings that command premium prices.
 Yet what heartened many market watchers was the market's overall stability, and the rising sales, according to the Prudential report, in what is traditionally a weak quarter. Average prices were higher last quarter than they were in the same quarter a year ago. For all of 2006, average prices were also higher than the previous year, which included the peak quarters of the recent real estate boom. 
 At the end of December, the Prudential report found that the backlog of unsold apartments had dropped to 5,934 from 7,623, a decline of 22 percent and slightly below the inventory reported a year before, as apartments were sold and overpriced apartments were taken off the market. 
 At the same time, the Prudential report tracked 2,441 sales in the last quarter of 2006, an increase of 15.5 percent from the prior quarter and a 55 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2005.
 Jonathan J. Miller, an appraiser and president of Miller Samuel Inc., prepared the Prudential report. He said some of the increase in sales might be exaggerated because of improved reporting by New York City, which last summer began providing sales information for previously undisclosed co-op sales. But he said that the increase in reported sales was the largest he had seen in several years, especially in the fourth quarter when sales typically decline an average of 8 percent. 
 But he said that he believed the market was strengthening and that it was now ''just barely'' a buyer's market, but one in which buyers were frustrated because sellers were not making significant concessions. He found that the average discount from the final asking price for an apartment fell to 2.8 percent from 4 percent in the previous quarter.
 Pamela Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group, said that sellers are now generally pricing their apartments realistically, and that with the economy strong and Wall Street bonuses high, ''the psychology of the market is very positive.''
 ''The big story here is the story that never happened,'' she said. ''The story was supposed to be that prices would crash in 2006, and a strong buyer's market will emerge. Buyers can certainly pick and choose, but those who think they are going to have a field day out there right now are mistaken.''
 Ms. Liebman said the fear of a price collapse caused by a construction boom has not been borne out so far, and the outlook remained good for this year. She said several thousand planned condominiums have instead been turned into hotels and office buildings, as hotel profits and office rentals have risen.
 The trends in the Manhattan real estate market have always been something of a puzzle, since the average and median prices tend to move up and down with the changing mix of large and small apartments and of apartments in old and new buildings.
 In addition, the various market studies augment public records of sales with private databases compiled by brokers and appraisers of recent closings that have not yet been reported by the city. 
 New building sales also distort the data, since sales often close up to a year or more after they go to contract. Ms. Liebman predicted that average sale prices would rise next year as contracts already signed at new expensive luxury buildings with multiple sales of more than $10 million, like 15 Central Park West and the Plaza on Fifth Avenue, are completed. 
 Several reports showed significant price increases in very large apartments with four or more bedrooms and in studios. The reports generally showed the largest increases in very large apartments with four or more bedrooms, with declines in average prices for two-bedroom apartments, which still averaged above $1.5 million per apartment.
 Overall, 2006 ended with an average price increase of 6 percent over the previous year's sales, Mr. Miller said, while the median went up by 11 percent. 
 Mr. Heym, the economist at Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens, attributed the continued strength of the market to the local economy, which he said has produced more jobs last year than in any year since the 2000 boom, and that interest rates that have remained low. Mr. Heym said, ''2006 turned out to be a really good year, much better than people thought.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); HOME PRICES (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (73%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Cooperatives; Condominiums

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Douglas Elliman; Corcoran Group; Brown Harris Stevens; Halstead Property Co

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



41 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Daylight in Boeing's Shadow

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
When Bob Baker at Harvest Partners, a real estate development company, tells people he is putting up a shopping center across the street from Boeing's commercial jet factory, he usually gets quizzical looks. Although Renton, Wash., is a town better known for airplanes than Armani, Mr. Baker is convinced his mall will do well. 
 Harvest Partners and Transwestern Investment bought the land for $37.8 million from Boeing two years ago and saw the site as ideal for new business. The 46-acre property was close to nearby highways and was centrally situated. Mr. Baker said that he realized that his center would not initially attract stores like Neiman Marcus, Crate & Barrel or Nordstrom, but that his mall would evolve with the city.
''The moment you say Renton, people think blue collar,'' said Mr. Baker, a partner at Harvest Partners in Dallas. ''We're still fighting that perception every day.'' 
 Renton, 12 miles southeast of Seattle, was founded over a century ago and was initially known for coal mining, logging and brick making until rail cars were produced in the 1920s. Since the 1940s, when Boeing built a factory there, Renton's fortunes have been tied to the airplane industry. 
 But now the town of 56,840 has quietly been reducing its dependence on the cyclical aerospace industry and courting developers, companies and sports teams to move to town. Renton seems to be positioned well: developable land, speedy permitting, no local business or occupation tax and a location on the south end of Lake Washington.
 ''All the pieces are finally coming together,'' said Kathy Keolker, Renton's mayor. 
 Residential developers are putting up million-dollar homes and luxury apartments. The Seattle Seahawks and the Federal Reserve's Seattle branch have either announced projects or have broken ground in Renton during the last two years. The Seattle SuperSonics basketball team is even considering a move.
 ''A whole lot of work has paid off,'' said Alex Pietsch, administrator of Renton's economic development, neighborhoods and strategic planning. ''We've been working nearly 10 years to promote reasons to do business, play and live here. I think that message is starting to come through.''
 Employment in Renton, now home to Boeing's commercial jetliner division, has risen and fallen along with military spending and airline orders over the years. In 1990, jobs at Boeing accounted for 59 percent of Renton's jobs, but have since declined to 29 percent.
 When Boeing started moving workers out of Renton in the early 1990s and office vacancies hit 40 percent, the city sought to escape the booms and busts of the aerospace industry. It set about streamlining its permitting process, and putting together a marketing campaign with the local chamber of commerce, technical college, medical center and school district to bring new companies to town.
 It was a well-timed move. After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, airplane orders plunged and Boeing laid off more than 27,000 people in the Puget Sound area. At its Renton operation, the company stopped producing the single-aisle 757 jet, focused exclusively on its popular 737 plane and consolidated employees and assembly lines. The move freed space on its 324-acre campus, allowing it to shed 46 acres. Harvest Partners eventually bought the parcel two years ago and is in negotiations to buy about 20 more acres.
 ''Years ago, everything was Boeing,'' said Wilma Warshak, a senior vice president at Colliers International in Tacoma. ''Today, there's so much more diversification, and we're not as dependent as we were.''
 The changes in Renton extend far beyond Boeing and the shores of Lake Washington. Eleven years ago, the city moved automobile dealerships out of downtown to a site near Interstate 405 so it could redevelop the city center. Since then, a park, a regional transit center, a performing arts center, a seven-story parking garage and hundreds of apartments and condominiums have been built. Construction has begun or is planned for 412 units. 
 Still, the shores of Lake Washington are attracting the bulk of the attention. The Seattle Seahawks football team, owned by Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, plans to start building a 145,155-square-foot training center and headquarters -- triple the size of its site in Kirkland -- on 19 acres Mr. Allen owns. 
 They will have bigger workout spaces, room for up to 3,000 fans for spring training and enough space to bring all 115 employees under one roof. As it is, players sometimes have to do stretches in the locker rooms and do hurdling drills in the hallways at Kirkland, said Lance Lopes, the team's general counsel and vice president.
 South of the Seahawks site, Conner Homes has broken ground for Barbee Mill, a collection of 114 luxury homes from $800,000 to about $3 million, on the site of a former lakefront sawmill. Homes will range from 2,500 to 4,000 square feet. The site is near a former creosote plant declared a Superfund site for toxic-waste cleanup last year, but Charlie Conner, president of Conner Homes, said the location was worth it. 
 ''Where else can you build a new community on the shores of Lake Washington?'' Mr. Conner said. ''This is probably the last big piece with large square footage on the lake.''
 Farther down the lake near the Boeing plant, Seco Development is renewing work on its Southport mixed-use complex and putting up 195 apartments. Michael Christ, Seco's president, mothballed work on three office towers and a 220-room hotel five years ago when the office market declined. Encouraged by the Seahawks move and the improving office market, he is looking for partners so he can go ahead with the office and hotel spaces.
 ''Renton is coming into its own,'' Mr. Christ said. ''Rents here are finally coming to a point where it justifies building. It feels more real than it has for a long time.''
 Directing growth to Boeing's old property and downtown has had another benefit: it lets the city comply with the state's Growth Management Act without altering the character of its single-family neighborhoods. The law requires every city in the state to plan for denser growth. 
 Renton is not without its challenges. It has the busiest stretch of I-405 and the most congested interchange in the region. A proposed $1 billion in road improvements may relieve some of the congestion, if voters approve a gasoline tax next fall.
 The Landing's construction may also be delayed. A group of residents is challenging whether city zoning rules allow it to be built, and the Westfield Group, an Australian mall developer, has joined the opposition. The company operates nearby Westfield Southcenter, which broke ground on a 400,000-square-foot expansion in May, and may compete against the Landing for tenants. The projects are expected to be completed by mid-2008 into early 2009.
 But Renton is not betting solely on new projects. Boeing says it has no plans to depart. The growing number of low-fare airlines and a weak dollar have bolstered orders for the 737 and made it the company's most popular model. Through Dec. 20, Boeing sold 619 of the jetliners.
 ''The 737 is very much alive and well,'' said Edmund S. Greenslet, publisher of the Airline Monitor in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. ''Maybe in five to eight years from now there will be a new model, but it very likely will be built in Renton.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathy Keolker, the mayor of Renton, Wash., at the site for a shopping center near a Boeing plant. Top, new residences in the city center. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (69%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); BASKETBALL (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (65%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (61%); COAL MINING (52%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (52%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Harvest Partners; Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: Kristina Shevory

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Renton (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



42 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Singapore: Growth Spurt In Quarter

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Singapore's economic growth unexpectedly accelerated in the fourth quarter to the fastest pace in a year as a record number of tourists and an all-time high stock market spurred service industries and helped offset lower electronics exports. Its economy grew an annualized 7.6 percent in the final three months of 2006, after expanding a revised 5.6 percent in the third quarter, the trade ministry said. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in his New Year's message that the pace of expansion may ease in 2007 because of an economic slowdown in the United States and weaker global demand for electronics, which account for about half the $118 billion economy's exports. The economy may expand between 4 percent and 6 percent this year, Mr. Lee said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); ELECTRONICS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TRENDS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: LEE HSIEN LOONG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Singapore

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



43 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Speech Will Urge Fiscal Restraint

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer will call for the state government to ''rein in spending,'' cut property taxes and overhaul the workers' compensation system in his first address to state lawmakers on Wednesday. 
 His speech, or at least excerpts that his staff released on Tuesday, focused more on the economy than the inaugural speech he delivered on Monday, which more generally addressed the need for a ''new brand of politics'' in a state government mired in gridlock and scandal.
According to the excerpts, Mr. Spitzer plans to issue a call ''to rein in spending and exhibit fiscal restraint'' to better afford ''long-term investments for our future.'' 
 ''We must reverse the decline of our upstate economy, sustain the economic expansion downstate and develop new ways for those communities which have been left behind to share in the prosperity,'' according to the prepared remarks.
 The speech will open a new legislative session. Among the other events of the day, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, is expected to be re-elected temporary president of the Senate, despite a federal investigation of his outside business activities. Mr. Bruno is the state's most powerful Republican and will be a counterweight to the governor. 
 After a closed-door meeting on Tuesday with other Republican senators, Mr. Bruno said the investigation did not come up. 
 ''We're not talking about that,'' he said. ''The people are pretty well informed as to what is going on, and, again, there isn't anything that we have been accused of, so were staying focused on our agenda.''
 The only public dissenter among Senate Republicans, Senator John J. Bonacic, said he intended to vote against Mr. Bruno but conceded he did not know of any other senator who would do the same. 
 ''As I see it, if our majority leader bleeds, the conference bleeds,'' he said. 
 Mr. Spitzer's staff also said on Tuesday that officials in his administration would prepare an annual report on the upstate region to be issued on the day the governor delivers his annual addresses to the Legislature. They also reiterated many of the proposals they made during the campaign aimed at reviving the upstate region including expediting infrastructure projects like a new Peace Bridge, which connects Western New York and Canada, and ensuring that upstate towns have high-speed Internet access. 
 His plan to cut property taxes will also be felt upstate. His first budget, due on Feb. 1, will include ''the first installment'' of the three-year, $6 billion property tax cut plan he laid out during his campaign. That plan includes a $1.5 billion property tax cut for the fiscal year beginning in April, a cut specifically aimed at the middle class. 
 ''The fundamental problem with the current system is that it doesn't care whether or not a person can afford to pay their property taxes,'' Mr. Spitzer said in the speech excerpts. ''Thus, the millionaire gets the same tax cut as the middle-class homeowner. I hope together we can fix this flaw.''
 The prepared remarks have Mr. Spitzer saying, ''Property tax cuts and increased support for education must be considered in tandem,'' a nod to the Republican-controlled Senate on property taxes and to the Democratic-led Assembly on education. 
 In a sign of his desire to improve the business climate upstate, Mr. Spitzer will call for an overhaul of the workers' compensation system, which he also made a priority during his campaign. Unlike many states, New York does not limit how long injured workers can receive payments for certain kinds of injuries, including head and back injuries. 
 Executives like Robert S. Miller, the chairman and chief executive of the auto supply giant Delphi, have criticized the state for high costs related to workers' compensation. On the other hand, unions do not like the system either, because the maximum weekly payment of $400 has not been raised in recent years. 
 In his prepared remarks, Mr. Spitzer calls workers' compensation ''a system that does not work for anyone, not the employers who pay some of the highest premiums in the country and not the workers who receive some of the lowest benefits.''
 He said that the government must reduce costs that are too high for businesses and citizens -- the ''perfect storm of unaffordability.''
 And as he did in his inaugural speech, he plans to lay blame at the feet of his predecessor, George E. Pataki, and perhaps to some extent at the other two men who have run the state for more than a decade, Mr. Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat. 
 ''We are operating in a deficit environment inherited from a culture that failed to make hard choices,'' the remarks quote him as saying. ''We're in this position because of a lack of leadership.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Eliot Spitzer in his office in Albany yesterday. He is scheduled to speak before a joint session of the State Legislature today. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); POLITICS (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Workers' Compensation Insurance

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Danny Hakim; Sewell Chan; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



44 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Two Governors Brace for a Showdown Over How Deep a River Should Run

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
The Delaware River, which separates New Jersey and Pennsylvania, is putting distance between the Democratic governors of the two states, who are at a standoff over the financing and environmental implications of a plan to deepen the river for larger cargo ships and oil tankers.
 After a yearlong impasse over the $300 million project, which requires approval and money from both states, Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania has halted the work of the Delaware River Port Authority, a bistate agency he heads that regulates activity along the river, blocking construction projects and increasing debt. He warned at a recent news conference that ''our patience is running out.'' 
But Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey said that officials in his state are not yet convinced that Pennsylvania's recent promises to accept the bulk of the waste from the riverbed and cover any cost overruns would allay their concerns. Moreover, Mr. Corzine, who has yet to offer a definitive position on the project, has expressed doubts about it from an environmental standpoint.
 ''I understand his frustration,'' Mr. Corzine said in an interview. ''We have people who are frustrated also about the environment, and I'm certain with all the details, some of the conceptual ideas that have been framed, we'll work through it.''
 The debate over the Delaware predates both governors, and for many of those who have followed it -- environmentalists and developers alike -- the stakes are high. 
 Backers say the proposal to deepen more than 100 miles of the river, from the mouth of Delaware Bay north to Philadelphia, to 45 feet from 40 feet, is critical to the revitalization of the Port of Philadelphia. Critics contend the dredging could shake free contaminated sediments that could be absorbed by fish or make their way into the water supply.
 ''It's a giant waste of money that's going to hurt the environment and waste taxpayers' resources,'' said Jeff Tittel, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club. 
 Mr. Tittel challenged Mr. Rendell's contention that the dredging would make the Philadelphia port more competitive with other major East Coast ports. ''The port will still be 100 miles from the ocean,'' Mr. Tittel pointed out, ''and will still not be competitive with Port of Newark, Norfolk, or even Halifax.''
 Governor Rendell continues to push for the project as a potential economic development engine. He pointed to a similar, if more costly, dredging project effectively undertaken at the Port of New York in the last six years, asking in a recent interview, ''Why is it good enough in the north and not good enough in the south?'' 
 Meanwhile, his refusal to take action to reduce the interest rates on bonds issued by the Delaware River Port Authority has increased the agency's debt by $7 million.
 In addition to agreeing to handle waste and extra costs, Governor Rendell has also promised to appoint a committee to examine the environmental impact of the 10-year project. But Governor Corzine dismissed these concessions, saying, ''It would be an overreading of that to say we've come to an agreement.''
 Those who know both men and understand the dispute said that they are dismayed that the governors of neighboring states, both from the same political party, have been unable to have a meeting of the minds.
 ''Hopefully, the two governors will sit down and resolve this,'' said State Senator Stephen M. Sweeney, a Democrat from Gloucester County in southern New Jersey and an opponent of the plan. ''Honestly, I haven't heard anything about this in a year.''
 Mr. Rendell and Mr. Corzine, who have both played roles in the national Democratic Party, have enjoyed a cordial if not particularly deep friendship. But their styles are as different as the environs of the well-heeled New Jersey suburb of Summit, where Mr. Corzine lived while he was chief executive at Goldman Sachs, and the rough-and-tumble, in-your-face attitude of South Philadelphia, in Mr. Rendell's adopted hometown.
 The garrulous Mr. Rendell, who will be 63 this week, is a former prosecutor and Philadelphia mayor who once instigated spectators to throw snowballs on the field at a pro football game. The earnest Mr. Corzine, who just turned 60, is a multimillionaire and former Wall Street trader who successfully tackled fiscal problems in his first year but sometimes struggled to get along with state legislative leaders from his own party.
 Despite his frustration, Governor Rendell said the issue has not affected his friendship with Mr. Corzine, a relationship that he said dates to his successful 1991 campaign for mayor of Philadelphia, when Mr. Corzine, then a trader at Goldman Sachs, was a significant campaign contributor.
 ''I think he's a great, great, great public servant,'' said Mr. Rendell, a native New Yorker, who before becoming governor in 2003 served as chairman of the Democratic National Committee. ''I believe that Governor Corzine has acted in good faith and does intend to resolve this.'' 
 Mr. Corzine, the former head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, declined to discuss how the dispute had affected his rapport with Mr. Rendell. Indeed, he was reluctant to talk about the matter.
 Days after Mr. Rendell's acerbic comment that New Jersey officials are ''running out of excuses,'' Mr. Corzine would say only, ''I actually think it's better for us to have private conversations about it.''
 Mr. Rendell said that he has tried to be accommodating with New Jersey officials, who over the past 14 months had asked to delay talks on the dredging project while political campaigns were going on in both states. Also, Mr. Corzine was trying to work out the details of his first budget, which led to a seven-day shutdown in July of the state government. He said that he and Mr. Corzine were scheduled to meet this month on the issue.
 ''I don't know what reason they'll find now,'' Mr. Rendell said of the prospect of any future delays. 
 David P. Rebovich, director of the Institute of New Jersey Politics at Rider University, said the showdown has highlighted Mr. Rendell's ''feisty, quick-witted, can-do style'' and the fact that Mr. Corzine is ''much more thoughtful and deliberative.'' 
 ''The impasse isn't doing either state much good,'' Professor Rebovich added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Delaware River, separating New Jersey and Pennsylvania, during flooding at Trenton last June. (Photo by Colin Archer/Getty Images)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); RIVERS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); BULK SHIPPING (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); COASTAL AREAS (68%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Finances; Dredges and Dredging; Ports; Ships and Shipping 

PERSON: ED RENDELL (89%); JON CORZINE (79%) Richard G Jones; Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Edward G (Gov) Rendell

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Delaware River; New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



45 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says Plan Would Balance Budget by '12 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
President Bush said on Tuesday that he would propose a plan that he insists would, if followed, achieve a balanced budget by 2012, the most optimistic he has been in at least five years, and he said the goal could be achieved without rescinding any of his big tax cuts. 
 In an op-ed article for the Wednesday issue of the The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Bush said his budget proposal for the 2008 fiscal year would for the first time project a deficit that disappears.
''The bottom line is tax relief and spending restraint are good for the American worker, good for the American taxpayer, and good for the federal budget,'' Mr. Bush said in the article, which was online Tuesday night. ''Now is not the time to raise taxes on the American people.'' 
 Mr. Bush offered no specifics on how he intends to achieve a balanced budget, beyond declaring that his tax cuts had led to economic growth and generated large increases in tax revenue for the past two years. 
 The White House's most recent budget forecast, issued last summer, called for the deficit to decline to $127 billion in 2011 from its peak of $412 billion in 2004. Thanks to larger-than-expected revenue gains last year, the shortfall for 2006 declined to $248 billion. 
 During his re-election campaign in 2004, Mr. Bush promised to cut the deficit in half by 2009. Though the prediction was greeted with widespread skepticism, that goal now looks increasingly plausible even if war costs in Iraq continue at current levels for another year. 
 Mr. Bush gave no hint in the article about whether the goal of a balanced budget by 2012 was predicated on continued rapid growth in tax revenues or deep new spending cuts in domestic programs. 
 But Mr. Bush's budget plans in the past several years have consistently failed to take into account two major costs in the years ahead: the war in Iraq and the cost of restraining or repealing the Alternative Minimum Tax. 
 War costs are now more than $100 billion a year, and Mr. Bush is expected to ask Congress for a supplemental spending package of more than $110 billion to finance military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan over the next year. 
 The alternative minimum tax is a potentially more costly item. The tax, which was created to prevent rich taxpayers from making too much use of elaborate deductions, is rapidly expanding its reach into the middle class because it is not adjusted for inflation. 
 Mr. Bush and Democratic leaders have called for a permanent ''fix'' to the alternative minimum tax, but an outright repeal would cost about $1 trillion over the next 10 years. For the past several years, Mr. Bush and the Congress have kept the tax from expanding by passing a series of one-year measures that could cost more than $70 billion for next year alone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%) Taxation

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



46 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 38TH PRESIDENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Ford Is Remembered as Bringing 'Grace to a Moment of Great Doubt' 

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; Monica Davey and Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Grand Rapids, Mich.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
In a soaring tribute to a modest man, Gerald R. Ford was remembered on Tuesday as bringing the ordinary virtues of decency, integrity and humility to mend a broken government after the pain of war and scandal.
 ''Amid all the turmoil, Gerald Ford was a rock of stability,'' President Bush told the gathering of generations of Washington's powerful at Washington National Cathedral. ''And when he put his hand on his family Bible to take the presidential oath of office, he brought grace to a moment of great doubt.''
The cathedral's grand setting and the pomp of a state funeral provided a counterpoint for the unassuming character praised by the eulogists. 
 President Bush's father called Mr. Ford ''a Norman Rockwell painting come to life''; Tom Brokaw, the former television anchor, described ''Citizen Ford'' as a ''champion of Main Street values''; and Henry A. Kissinger said the man he served as secretary of state ''had the virtues of small-town America.'' 
 When the cathedral's limestone arches echoed, it was with the drums and brass of Aaron Copland's ''Fanfare for the Common Man,'' and the ushers directing the capacity crowd of 3,700 to their seats were uniformed Boy Scouts, a tribute to Mr. Ford's youthful achievement of the rank of Eagle Scout. Among the hymns was ''Eternal Father, Strong to Save,'' known as the Navy Hymn, a particular favorite of Mr. Ford, who served in the Pacific during World War II.
 President Bush, overseeing a deeply unpopular war in Iraq and perhaps pondering his own legacy, lauded Mr. Ford's ''firm resolve'' in sending the Marines to rescue the crew of the American merchant ship Mayaguez when it was seized by Cambodia. He suggested that some acts widely condemned during Mr. Ford's administration in the 1970s had come to look wiser in historical perspective, including his pardon for his immediate predecessor, Richard M. Nixon.
 In addition, Mr. Bush noted that Mr. Ford was criticized for signing the Helsinki Accords, the 1975 agreement that ratified borders in Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe while also setting new standards for human rights.
 ''History has shown that document helped bring down the Soviet Union as courageous men and women behind the Iron Curtain used it to demand their God-given liberties,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Mr. Ford's coffin arrived at the cathedral by motorcade from the Capitol, a final journey through the city where he served as 13-term congressman, vice president and finally president, the only person to hold the nation's top two offices without being elected to either.
 After the 90-minute Episcopal funeral service, Mr. Ford's body was flown from Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington to his hometown, Grand Rapids, Mich., for a burial service on Wednesday in a plot beside the museum that bears his name.
 In Washington, the Gothic cathedral where Mr. Ford helped dedicate the nave in 1976, became for the morning a crossroads of the capital's past and present, with Supreme Court justices and members of Congress in the south transept facing scores of foreign ambassadors and former foreign leaders in the north transept.
 Across an aisle from the diplomats sat Mr. Ford's honorary pallbearers, including in the front row Mr. Kissinger; Donald H. Rumsfeld, who served as defense secretary to both Mr. Ford and the current President Bush; Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chief who was Mr. Ford's top economic adviser; James A. Baker III, who ran Mr. Ford's unsuccessful 1976 campaign for president; and Brent Scowcroft, Mr. Ford's national security adviser.
 Facing the altar, where Mr. Ford's coffin, draped by a flag, sat, were Mr. Ford's widow, Betty, who was escorted in and out of the cathedral by President Bush, and the Ford children, Steve, Jack, Mike and Susan. 
 Across the nave from the Ford family sat President Bush and Laura Bush, and Vice President Dick Cheney, who served Mr. Ford as chief of staff, with his wife, Lynne; several current cabinet members and three former presidents -- the elder Mr. Bush with his wife, Barbara; Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn; and Bill Clinton and his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, and their daughter, Chelsea. With them was Nancy Reagan, the former first lady.
 Like much of the outpouring of affection for Mr. Ford since he died at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif., on Dec. 26 at the age of 93, the service focused on what President Bush called the ''calm and healing'' the former president brought to ''one of the most divisive moments in our nation's history.'' Mr. Ford, the House minority leader, succeeded first Vice President Spiro T. Agnew and then President Nixon after both men were forced from office by scandal.
 ''Gerald Ford brought to the political arena no demons, no hidden agenda, no hit list or acts of vengeance,'' said Mr. Brokaw, who explained that Mr. Ford had asked him to address the funeral as a representative of the press corps. ''He knew who he was, and he didn't require consultants or gurus to change him.''
 Mr. Kissinger in particular emphasized the substantive achievements of Mr. Ford in foreign policy, saying the ''deserved commentary'' on Mr. Ford's character ''has sometimes obscured how sweeping and lasting were his achievements.'' In remarks perhaps intended to reflect on his own record as well as Mr. Ford's, he credited the former president with keeping ethnic conflicts in Cyprus and Lebanon from spiraling out of control, producing the first peace agreement between Israel and Egypt and presiding over ''the final agony of Indochina with dignity and wisdom.''
 Historians, Mr. Kissinger added, will find ''that the cold war could not have been won had not Gerald Ford emerged at a tragic period to restore equilibrium to America and confidence in its international role.'' 
 A few hours after the service, the plane carrying Mr. Ford's body circled over the University of Michigan football stadium, where he had been a standout center and linebacker, then landed at the airport named for him in Grand Rapids. The university's marching band, which arrived on a red-eye flight from California after the Rose Bowl game on Monday, solemnly played its fight song, ''The Victors.''
 About 200 friends and local dignitaries invited by Mr. Ford's family attended the brief ceremony before the 13-mile motorcade to his presidential museum in downtown Grand Rapids, passing thousands of residents who lined the streets, some holding signs that said ''Welcome home.'' Billboards around the city declared ''Gerald 'Our' Ford: 1913-2006.'' 
 Despite a fierce, bitter wind blowing off the Grand River, Tim Micho waited with his video camera and 7-year-old daughter, Tessa, for two and a half hours to watch the motorcade pass by.
 ''She'll probably never get to see something like this again,'' Mr. Micho, 43, said. ''It's so moving to see this many people out here to support him.'' 
 A single bagpiper played ''Amazing Grace'' as Betty Ford and the rest of the family made their way slowly behind the coffin into the museum, a geometric, glassy structure along the water. Inside, they held a brief service for family and honored guests, including former President Carter.
 Like many along the streets in Grand Rapids, Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm spoke of Mr. Ford's deep roots in the region. 
 Here, Ms. Granholm said, Mr. Ford had learned from his family ''some good Midwestern values likehard work and sportsmanship and integrity and honesty.'' Here, he had played high school football (with a few men, now frail, in attendance on Tuesday), had married and had been elected to Congress.
 ''Welcome home,'' Ms. Granholm said, ''to the people that you reflected so well when you were in Washington.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The coffin of former President Gerald R. Ford was taken yesterday from the Capitol and transported to Washington National Cathedral for a funeral that was attended by 3,700. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HISTORY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%); POLITICS (72%); RELIGION (71%) United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: Washington National Cathedral

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Gerald Rudolph Jr (1913-2006) Ford; Scott Shane

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2007



47 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Markets Finish Mixed as Fed Hints at Nagging Concern With Inflation

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Stocks surged early yesterday, the first trading day of 2007, but fell sharply after minutes from a Federal Reserve meeting indicated that inflation remained the chief concern of policy makers even as they started to worry about a weakening economy. Markets closed mixed for the day.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down slightly, at 1,416.63, after being up 0.8 percent. The Nasdaq composite index surged 1.6 percent early, but reversed course in the afternoon, falling 0.9 percent; it closed up 7.87 points, or 0.33 percent, at 2,423.16. 
The Dow Jones industrial average also seesawed to a modest gain of 11.37 points, closing at 12,474.52. Bonds were up slightly and the dollar rose against the euro and yen.
 Like markets in Europe and Asia, American stock markets, which were closed Tuesday in observance of the day of mourning for President Gerald R. Ford, began the year on an upbeat note. Investors were encouraged by Wal-Mart's posting of sales that were stronger than expected, and by a report showing an increase in manufacturing activity last month.
 But the rally started to sag in early afternoon and collapsed shortly after the Fed released the minutes of its Dec. 12 meeting. Energy stocks were among the biggest losers as crude oil futures fell by $2.73, to $58.32 a barrel, the first time they have closed below $60 since November.
 The Fed, as it has done repeatedly in recent months, indicated in its minutes that while inflation had moderated, the central bank's policy makers were worried that it remained too high and that they might need to raise short-term interest rates. The minutes noted, however, that one unnamed member of the policy-making committee wanted the Fed to acknowledge that it could also cut rates to reinvigorate the economy.
 ''It was a blunt reminder to the stock market that the Fed's going to err on the side of avoiding inflation,'' said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. 
 Stocks climbed steadily in the last six months of 2006, partly on the expectation that the Fed, which last raised interest rates in June, to 5.25 percent, would start cutting rates in the first half of 2007. But some economists and market specialists have suggested that that view was inconsistent with investors' optimism that the economy and corporate profits would hold up well in the coming year.
 ''There is a sense in the stock market that you can have your cake and eat it too, that you can have good growth and rate cuts from the Fed,'' Mr. Harris said.
 The bond and futures markets, by contrast, have become a little less hopeful in recent weeks about interest rate cuts, and are now priced with the expectation that the Fed's first rate cut will come in late June. Yields on the 10-year Treasury note, which move in the opposite direction of the price, have risen to 4.66 percent, from a low of 4.02 percent at the start of December. Bond prices and yields were little changed in yesterday's trading after the Fed's announcement.
 ''The bond market got the reaction to the Fed minutes right,'' said Joseph Biondo, a senior portfolio manager at Biondo Investment Advisors, ''and the stock market didn't.''
 Still, market specialists said the stocks' late-afternoon recovery suggested that investors were not as moved by the Fed as it first seemed. Also, the energy sector was responsible for much of the decline in stock prices -- the S.& P. Energy index fell 3.7 percent for the day. Analysts said warmer-than-expected temperatures on the East Coast helped drive down prices for crude oil and other commodities.
 Another concern for the markets is the possibility that profit growth will slow. Companies will start reporting results for the fourth quarter later this month and, for the first time in four and a half years, profits may not post double-digit gains, said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for S.& P.'s Equity Research Service. He said he expected stocks to register a gain in 2007, but that the markets might first experience a correction typically seen late in an economic expansion.
 ''There is a healthy level of skepticism that is coming back into equity valuations,'' he said.
 The next few days could prove critical, specialists note, citing a market truism that the markets' performance in the first five trading days of a year is a harbinger of their performance in the coming 12 months.
 While it is too early to draw those broader conclusions, the market did appear to start off on a new footing. Toward the end of last year, volatility, a measure of the sharpness of the stock market's movements, fell to historic lows.
 ''Volatility is back,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors. ''That's maybe the story for 2007. We have not seen it for a while. At this point in prior business cycles, we saw volatility spike back up.''
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction for four-week Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price -- 99.629
High Rate -- 4.760
Coupon Yield -- 4.844
Low Rate -- 4.730
Median Rate -- 4.750
Total applied for -- $32,054,700
Accepted -- $11,555,120
Noncompetitive -- $275,708

The four-week bills mature February 01, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The floor of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. The Dow finished 11.37 points higher. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); EURO (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



48 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Indications of a Slowdown In Sex Entertainment Trade

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The sex-related entertainment industry's leading performers, owners and fans gather in Las Vegas for three conferences starting next week amid indications that pornography's robust growth since it came out from behind the counter in the 1970s is slowing. 
 The sex-related entertainment business grew in 2006 by just 2.4 percent, roughly the rate of inflation, to just under $13 billion, according to Paul Fishbein, president of the AVN Media Network, which publishes five trade magazines and runs industry conferences. 
Jerry Ropelato, an opponent of the industry who owns the Web site TopTenReviews.com, gave a slightly smaller estimate of the size of the business, about $12 billion.
 ''The porn industry is still growing,'' Mr. Ropelato said, ''but just not at the growth rates they experienced in the past.''
 Mr. Fishbein's estimates indicate that for every dollar Americans spent buying tickets to Hollywood movies last year, they spent about 90 cents viewing sex movies in various formats.
 The slowdown may be just the latest example of how the Internet is shaking up well-established industries.
 Because most of the industry is privately owned, accurate numbers are hard to come by. But in one part of the industry where there is independent reporting of sales -- sex movies sold over cable -- there are indications of a slowdown.
 JupiterKagan Inc., a media and technology market research company, said it expected that sex movies sold either as pay-per-view or on-demand would grow over the next decade at only half the pace of overall paid-for programming on cable. 
 George Niesen, managing editor of Kagan Research in Monterey, Calif., said that $1.6 billion was spent on cable pay-per-view, video-on-demand and similar services in 2006, with $515 million, or roughly a third of that, going to sex-related entertainment.
 Over the next 10 years, Kagan Research projects, overall paid-for programming on cable will grow at 12.9 percent a year, while the sex-related segment's growth will be half that, at 6.4 percent. 
 Revenues appear to be growing in the dance club business. The industry's one publicly traded concern, Rick's Cabaret, which runs dance clubs in seven cities, said same-store sales in its fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 were up 25.1 percent over the previous year.
 The idea that revenue growth has slowed for the sex-related entertainment industry was disputed by Steven Hirsch, one of three owners of the Vivid Entertainment Group, a major producer of both soft- and hard-core movies. He and other industry executives said the ways that Americans get pornography are changing, with sales of videos and magazines in decline, while sex-related entertainment over cable television and Internet streaming is growing quickly.
 ''Right now, DVD is going down faster than video-on-demand is ramping up; it is just a lag in technologies,'' Mr. Hirsch said, not a fundamental easing in demand.
 He said he did not believe that the aging of the American population had affected sales. 
 The Census Bureau estimates that the average age of Americans last year was 36, up from 30 in 1980, when the industry was growing rapidly in the wake of favorable Supreme Court decisions, fewer police raids and easy access to movies through the technology of videocassettes, which were new then.
 Mr. Fishbein and others said ''the one area of huge growth'' was hard-core movies featuring women in their 30s into their 70s, a trend that has brought new work for some of the industry's stars.
 ''The flashpoint for this in our culture was the teen movie 'American Pie,' where there is a famous sequence involving one of the kids and his friend's mother,'' Mr. Fishbein said.
 Mr. Fishbein and others also said that there was big growth in sales of sex toys to women.
 Outside the United States, the fastest growth is in sex videos and images sent to cellphone viewing screens, Mr. Fishbein and others said. 
 None of the American cellphone companies cooperate with the industry, which he said limited the market because consumers must use complicated technology to work around the cellphone networks.
 Mr. Fishbein estimated domestic revenue from these cellphone sales at just $39 million.
 Mr. Hirsch, the co-owner of Vivid, said such sales via cellphones in Europe were a growth center. He said he hoped that technological changes within a few years would prompt big sales in the United States, even if the cellphone companies did not cooperate.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''X-Rated Content''A recent industry report on the sexually explicit entertainment business reveals a shift away from videos and magazines and toward delivery by cable or satellite to televisions and computer screens. It also showed sales growth only kept pace with inflation.SEGMENTVideo sales and rentalsREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- $4.280REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- $3.622PERCENT CHANGE -- -15.4%InternetREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- 2.500REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- 2.841PERCENT CHANGE -- +13.6Dance clubsREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- 2.000REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- 2.000PERCENT CHANGE -- 0Cable and pay-per-view televisionREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- 1.300REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- 1.745PERCENT CHANGE -- +34.2NoveltiesREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- 1.500REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- 1.725PERCENT CHANGE -- +15.0MagazineREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- 1.000REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- 0.950PERCENT CHANGE -- -5.0Mobile phoneREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- 0.035REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- 0.039PERCENT CHANGE -- +11.4TotalREVENUE, BILLIONS: 2005 -- $12.615REVENUE, BILLIONS: 2006 -- $12.922PERCENT CHANGE -- +2.4(Source by AVN Media Network)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAY PER VIEW (88%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (72%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (72%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%); BROADBAND (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%) Pornography and Obscenity; Computers and the Internet; Finances; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Magazines

COMPANY: RICK'S CABARET INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

TICKER: RICK (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722410 DRINKING PLACES (ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES) (52%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5813 DRINKING PLACES (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



49 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Helping Make the Shift From Combat to Commerce 

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
Coming home from their respective tours of duty in Iraq, John Reid and Alina Gutierrez had never met but they had a lot in common. Both were sergeants in the 42nd Infantry Division of the Army and were deployed in Iraq from autumn 2004 to autumn 2005. And both had a strong interest in running their own businesses when they got home. 
 Ms. Gutierrez is an owner of a Glass Doctor franchise, and next month, Mr. Reid will open his own Glass Doctor in a neighboring New Jersey county. They are the beneficiaries of an innovative private-sector business plan aimed at encouraging and supporting military veterans.
The Veterans Transition Franchise Initiative, or VetFran, a program sponsored by the International Franchise Association, offers veterans a discount on financing prospective franchises as a way of thanking them for serving the country. 
 Nearly 200 participating franchise companies provide qualified veterans ''the best deal'' in acquiring a new franchise, a deal not available to other franchise investors, according to Dina Dwyer-Owens, president of the Dwyer Group, a franchise organization in Waco, Tex. 
 Franchises have become an increasingly appealing route for many would-be entrepreneurs. According to a 2004 study by PricewaterhouseCoopers, franchise businesses employ more than 18 million Americans and generate more than $1.5 trillion, or nearly 10 percent of private-sector economic output. The study noted that there were more than 760,000 franchise businesses in the United States and franchising continues to be a fast-growing business opportunity. 
 VetFran was conceived by Don Dwyer Sr., Ms. Dwyer-Owens' father, after the Persian Gulf war. When Mr. Dwyer died suddenly in 1994, the VetFran program foundered. After 9/11 and the invasion of Afghanistan, Ms. Dwyer-Owens decided that the program ought to be revived and, in 2002, she turned it over to the franchise association. 
 VetFran is open to all veterans, not just those returning from Afghanistan and Iraq. Since the program began, more than 600 veterans have received discounts in starting franchise businesses. Among the participating franchise companies are Dunkin' Donuts, Midas, the UPS Store, Gold's Gym and Aamco Transmissions. 
 Ms. Gutierrez, 26, said she received a 10 percent discount on her Glass Doctor franchise fee, which saved her several thousand dollars in much-needed capital for her outlet in Mercer County. But as with Mr. Reid and other veterans who have participated in the VetFran program, the money was not as significant as the meaning of the gesture. 
 ''I was very excited when I heard about the program,'' Ms. Gutierrez said. ''When you come home from your deployment, you are not sure if everyone appreciated what you had done. I thought it was very cool that they recognized that we risked our lives in Iraq and they appreciated our sacrifice.''
 Mr. Reid, who views Ms. Gutierrez as a colleague, not a competitor, said that the VetFran discount was a big influence on his decision to pursue a Glass Doctor franchise. ''The less capital you have to lay out, the better,'' he said. ''You need as much start-up money as you can get.'' 
 He was also impressed that Glass Doctor, one of eight franchise businesses owned and operated by the Dwyer Group, was willing to be flexible with his deal, offering him an additional four months before he has to start repayments. 
 Because of their military training, returning veterans are highly regarded as prospective franchise operators by franchise companies. As with the military, successful franchises operate within a specific system and a set of guidelines, created by the franchiser.
 ''Someone coming back from the military is a great fit for a franchise business,'' said Jim Blasingame, a small-business consultant and host of the ''The Small Business Advocate Show'' on radio. ''They not only know what it's like to work hard but they know how to operate within a system. With a franchise, you can't think outside the box. You have to color inside the lines.''
 The military is apparently good training for all types of entrepreneurs. According to William D. Elmore, associate administrator for veterans business development at the Small Business Administration, there are 25 million veterans in the United States and one in seven of them is successfully self-employed.
 ''Veterans have the highest rate of successful self-employment of any group of Americans,'' Mr. Elmore said, noting the 14 percent success rate in self-employment. He attributes this success to the discipline and training every soldier acquires during their service. ''There is an enormous resource going into the training and deployment of soldiers and out of that comes a skill set, discipline and worldliness that most citizens don't have at a young age.'' 
 Mr. Reid, 40, says that Iraq gave him an opportunity to save $60,000 while he was deployed and he was intent on using that money to set up his own business. ''As a noncommissioned officer in charge of a logistics section, I was responsible for 45 people,'' he said. All 45 came back. ''So I thought, 'Let's see how I do in business.' ''
 His Glass Doctor franchise in Somerset, N.J., which is set to open Feb. 5, gives him exclusive rights to all of Somerset County. ''They told me, 'We have a system. If you follow it, you'll be successful.' That sounded like the business for me,'' he said.
 The VetFran program is allowing Brett Cooper to start a Lawn Doctor franchise in Boonville, Mo., while keeping his full-time job as a sales representative for Graybar Electric. As an 18-year member of the Missouri Army National Guard, Mr. Cooper was called up for a tour of duty in Afghanistan in 2004 and spent a year deployed in and around Kabul.
 ''I looked into a Lawn Doctor franchise six years ago, but I wasn't financially able to do it,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''While I was in Afghanistan, I saved my salary. I'm a major so the pay was very good. and it gave me a cushion. I e-mailed Lawn Doctor from Afghanistan and was made aware of the VetFran program.''
 He received a 5 percent discount on his start-up costs for the franchises, which is significant given that Lawn Doctor franchises cost $90,000. 
 As with other veterans starting franchises, Mr. Cooper does not hesitate to let customers know he is a veteran. ''I've absolutely used my veteran status,'' he said. ''People are very grateful that you have served your country, especially in the current conflict. Doing that kind of service for your country builds trust and respect.''
 Ms. Dwyer-Owens is pleased by the response to the VetFran program thus far. ''The veterans are so grateful that we are there to say thanks,'' she said. ''I'm proud of it. There's no government funding. It's all done by private businesses.''
 Mr. Elmore praised the VetFran program as a strong private-sector initiative that opened doors for veterans seeking small-business opportunities. He also cautioned that veterans should seek expert advice available through S.B.A. business development centers before signing any agreements (www.sba.gov/vets).
 Jerry Pyle, a retired Marine sergeant in Mineola, Fla., is among those who appreciate the VetFran gesture. After a 22-year career in the Marines ended in 1999, Mr. Pyle tried his hand in corporate retail and found himself ill suited to that atmosphere. He began his own business as a handyman and home remodeler and when he moved from South Carolina to central Florida, he heard about the Dream Maker Bath and Kitchen Worldwide franchise, another Dwyer Group company. 
 ''It resonated with me that a corporation would actually take my service to the country into consideration,'' he said. ''It felt like a belated payback for 22 years of service.''
 The VetFran program emphasizes that veterans not only make excellent franchisers but employees as well. Mr. Pyle said that he gravitated toward the qualities and values of veterans and all of his five full-time employees are either veterans or wives of veterans. ''Their qualities of teamwork, ethics and enthusiasm make us a better company,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alina Gutierrez, an owner of a Glass Doctor franchise, with Kurt Zitzler Jr., left, lead technician, and Henrry Serna Jr., an apprentice. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (92%); VETERANS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); FRANCHISORS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ARMIES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TRANSMISSION REPAIR SHOPS (76%) Veterans; Small Business; Franchises; Entrepreneurship

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (63%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); GOLD'S GYM INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE ASSOCIATION (56%) Veterans Transition Franchise Initiative; Pricewaterhousecoopers

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (52%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (52%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (52%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (52%)

PERSON: Glenn Rifkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



50 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Key Index Of Industry Expands

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Manufacturing expanded in December after contracting the previous month, a trade group said Wednesday, leaving economists cautiously hopeful about the sector's prospects for next year.
 The Institute for Supply Management said on Wednesday that its manufacturing index registered 51.4 in December, compared with 49.5 in November, which was the first time the sector's activity shrank since April 2003. A reading below 50 indicates contraction, while above 50 signals expansion. 
December's manufacturing index came in above the average analyst expectation for a reading of 50, or no change in the sector's output.
 Michael Gregory, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets, said the report and other economic indicators released on Wednesday supported the notion that the economy was experiencing a ''soft landing'' after rapid expansion early in 2006.
 Wall Street at first seemed enthused by the manufacturing data, but stocks ended mixed after minutes from the Federal Reserve's last meeting showed gathering concern at the central bank about the severity of the pullback in housing.
 In a separate report on Wednesday, the Commerce Department said construction activity showed further weakness in November as spending on homes dropped for a record eighth consecutive month. Building activity declined 0.2 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $1.18 trillion, the agency said, though that was less than the 0.6 percent drop the markets expected.
 The weakness was led by a 1.6 percent drop in home construction.
 Norbert J. Ore, the chairman of the Institute for Supply Management, said the manufacturing sector was resilient in December in part because of reduced material prices that might signal easing inflationary pressures.
 But David Resler, a chief economist at Nomura Securities, said that even with the improvement over November's data, growth in the sector was not robust.
 ''The trend is still worrisome,'' Mr. Resler said, adding that manufacturing output was still ''well below the norms of the recent past.'' Over the last 12 months, the I.S.M.'s manufacturing index has averaged 53.9.
 A senior economist at Wachovia Securities, Mark Vitner, was less worried, noting that the weakness in manufacturing appears limited to motor-vehicle production and building materials industries, and that this has contributed to falling prices for some raw materials.
 Other segments, like those that make power-generation equipment, trucking engines and airliners, appear quite healthy by comparison, Mr. Vitner said. 
 The institute's new-orders index rose substantially in December to 52.1, compared with 48.7 in November. And the cost of manufacturers' raw materials decreased sharply, with the prices index falling to 47.5 from 53.5 a month earlier.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Construction Spending''Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Nov. -- -0.2%Oct. -- -0.3Sept. -- -0.8(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STATISTICS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (73%); NEW ORDERS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%) United States Economy; Housing; Building (Construction)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Institute of Supply Management; Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



51 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS: HOTELS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: For Budget-Minded Hipsters, Rooms That Economize on Space

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CANNELL

 BODY:
Imagine if Ian Schrager opened a youth hostel. Such is the concept behind the Pod Hotel, which is opening on East 51st Street in stages this month, with rooms becoming available as they are completed. 
 Formerly the Pickwick Arms, a drab Midtown lodging, the Pod Hotel holds 347 rooms barely larger than walk-in closets. A 100-square-foot hotel room for two may be a tough sell, even in New York. But the owners are betting that guests (target age: 18 to 25) will overlook the cramped quarters if they offer high design at a low price. Rates start at $89 a night for a compact single room, above left, made for the traveler who just wants to dive into bed.
''Our guest is the stylish spendthrift,'' said Richard Born, a principal of BD Hotels, which also owns Manhattan hotels like the Maritime and the Mercer. 
 The Pod Hotel is the first of its kind to open in the United States, though capsule hotels have operated in Japan for more than two decades. The stripped-down easyHotel opened in London in 2005, and the chain has since spread through Europe and Asia. 
 Vanessa Guilford, the Pod Hotel's designer, has echoed transportation's efficient use of space. Bunk beds suggest sleeper cars on trains, and in rooms without bathrooms, a symbol above the door turns green when a shared hallway bathroom is vacant -- a detail borrowed from airplanes. Flip-down coat hooks are the same as those found on Amtrak trains.
 ''The idea was to keep it all cheap and cheerful,'' Ms. Guilford said, ''and to simplify it as much as possible.'' In the lounge, above right, a mural by James Rizzi sets the tone. The Pod Hotel is at 230 East 51st Street. For reservations, (212) 355-0300. MICHAEL CANNELL


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Michael Weschler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); TRAINS (88%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (65%) Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Pod Hotel (NYC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

PERSON: Michael Cannell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (73%); EUROPE (69%); ASIA (54%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



52 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: A 180degrees View of a Hotbed Of Housing Design

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CANNELL

DATELINE: Venice, Calif. 

 BODY:
AS any architect knows, wedding vows are negotiable in the face of a design competition. Six months after Deborah Richmond and Olivier Touraine, architects in Los Angeles, married in 2001, they found themselves facing off on teams competing for the high-profile job of overhauling the grounds of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. 
 ''It was really difficult; it was really tense,'' said Mr. Touraine, who worked with a former boss, the flamboyant French architect Jean Nouvel, and shuttled for four months between France and California. 
 ''It was really fun,'' said Ms. Richmond, who moved to Rotterdam in the Netherlands to work on Rem Koolhaas's team. ''It was like Deb's Big European Adventure.'' 
 They talked by phone, but never about work. ''The atmosphere was like 'Mr. and Mrs. Smith,' '' she said, recalling the film about assassins told to kill each other. ''That movie was so close to our experience that we preordered tickets.''
 The couple met in 1997, when he was working for Mr. Nouvel and she for Jon Jerde, the California master of mall design. The firms were designing parts of a commercial complex in Japan, and Ms. Richmond acted as translator and guide for Mr. Touraine and Mr. Nouvel when they visited the Jerde office here. 
 Eight months later Mr. Touraine, who is French, moved to Los Angeles, ostensibly for a job at the Southern California Institute of Architecture. ''I really moved here because of Debbie,'' he said. 
 The couple also started a firm here, Touraine Richmond Architects, and after the museum-grounds competition they settled back into working together. (The museum chose the Koolhaas plan, but abandoned it for lack of funds). They did a series of Los Angeles projects, including a home they converted from a 12-car garage in the Hollywood Hills for Wim Wenders, the filmmaker, and his wife, Donata.
 Their latest collaboration is the so-called One Window House, a home they share with their 2-month-old son, Thomas. Once a backwater of tattoo parlors and beachside bodybuilders, Venice has become a percolating design district with a growing inventory of adventurous homes on narrow lots. Much of Frank Gehry's early work was in Venice, and he is building a highly anticipated home for himself three blocks south of the One Window House. 
 ''This is a real laboratory,'' Ms. Richmond said, ''especially for young architects.'' 
 Like other architects living here, Mr. Touraine, 43, and Ms. Richmond, 39, gravitated to Venice for its freedom: they could design what they liked without obeisance to a prevailing style. ''Context?'' Ms. Richmond said. ''What context? There's a bungalow here and stucco condo there.'' 
 Architects also move here for the bargains (or did until a few years ago, when Venice real estate started to catch up with the rest of Los Angeles). In 2002 the couple paid $337,000 for a 3,900-square-foot plot and a two-story stucco house from 1951, which now contains a rental apartment and a studio for their firm.
 They designed a second house for themselves and built it next door in 2005 for $410,000, or about $275 a square foot -- as opposed to $300 to $350 for typical architect-designed houses in the area -- largely by drawing on unconventional materials. A translucent plastic welding screen is used in place of a closet door, for example, and their fireplace is mounted in a black box built out of an inflammable material made of pressed paper.
 ''The materials create a certain lightness and thriftiness that richer materials would not impart,'' Ms. Richmond said.
 On a recent morning they fed Thomas in the open living room as distinctive California light filtered through sage, alder and California myrtle visible through glass walls framing a 180-degree view. ''It's almost like our porch,'' Ms. Richmond said. ''We wave to our neighbors without leaving the couch.'' 
 In fact, the couple consider the first-floor living area as much outdoors as indoors, a classic California sentiment. For all its light and views, the first floor does not have windows, only those walls of glass. 
 The openness gives way to utter privacy as you walk upstairs into a corrugated steel box with a compact labyrinth of rooms. In fact, the couple originally intended to build the No Window House, but in a last-minute concession to the ocean breeze they installed one horizontal strip in the master bedroom.


GRAPHIC: Photos: EXPOSURE -- The living area has 180-degree views, but exposure has its drawbacks. To deflect the Southern California heat, Deborah Richmond and Olivier Touraine hung curtains lined with Firebreak, a Mylar fabric used by farmers to protect produce. For privacy, they cover the glass walls with sliding panels of translucent Lexan, a lightweight resin used for airplane windows and bulletproof glass (information: geplastics.com).
HIDDEN ECONOMIES -- Kitchen cabinets, left, are made of sanded oriented strand board, an engineered wood that is stronger than plywood, and cheaper: about $12 for a sheet 8 by 10 feet. The white cabinets are medium-density fiberboard, a lower-grade material. ''When cabinets are painted there's no point in using anything but the cheapest paint-grade material,'' Ms. Richmond said. ''We simply wanted these to disappear into the whiteness of the wall.''
INSIDE OUT -- Deborah Richmond and Olivier Touraine, above with their son, Thomas, enjoy their extended living area in Venice, Calif.
 BOOMTOWN -- With the population of Los Angeles on the rise, city planners are looking for alternatives to the classic single-family house with lawn and driveway. Mr. Touraine and Ms. Richmond have shown one way to increase the density of neighborhoods. They did not build their new corrugated steel home, above, to the lot line, as many Angelenos do, but instead built up, to the maximum height permitted. That left room for a strip of native plants surrounded by a redwood fence, without sacrificing light and views. A redwood deck with chain-link fencing acts as a bridge between the new house and the 1951 stucco building at right, which they use as an office and a rental unit, and which doubles as a carport. The resulting structure -- two households and an office -- is ''our own little mixed-use development,'' Ms. Richmond said. (Photographs by Michael Weschler for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); WEIGHTLIFTING (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (64%); TATTOO PARLORS (50%) Architecture

PERSON: Deborah Richmond; Olivier Touraine; Michael Cannell

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (91%); JAPAN (55%) Venice (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



53 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: To Sleep, Perchance To Succeed

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
FOR those who have failed in a decade or three's worth of New Year's resolutions to become better workers, spouses, parents, athletes or lovers, there is a new frontier in personal growth -- or at least a proliferation of products, mostly hawked over the Internet, that promise to help turn the last bit of untrammeled downtime (sleep) into an opportunity for improvement. 
 New health products have emerged, often from the margins of commerce. Old self-help approaches like subliminal ''sleep learning'' have evolved and found new life on the Web.
''While you sleep!'' has become an Internet marketing catchphrase. The idea plays on two classic, if contradictory, American impulses: the desire to get ahead, and the compulsion to avoid the slightest expenditure of effort. 
 There are diet pills sold under names like Lose and Snooze and Sleep 'n Slim, which contain collagen and which the makers say can help maximize the body's metabolism. There are foot pads from Japan that look like tea bags and promise to drain toxins and restore energy while you sleep. 
 On one Web site, hypnotictapes.com, besides recordings designed to improve public speaking or break addiction to alcohol or heroin, there are programs promising to help you, at least partly while sleeping, ''Overcome Fear of Clowns'' and ''Master the Bagpipes.'' 
 ''The grow-yourself revolution started in the '50s,'' said David Allen, a productivity consultant who wrote ''Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity'' (Viking, 2001), and it ''is the one industry that has never faltered in the last 40 years. All they have done is give you more clever ways of getting it without having to give anything.'' 
 Products marketed for nocturnal self-transformation often target outward appearance. Ortho-K contact lenses, which reshape the cornea to correct vision and are typically worn only at night, have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. But the claims of many other products are more nebulous. 
 Nancy Clark, a registered dietician and the author of the best-selling ''Nancy Clark's Sports Nutrition Guidebook'' (Human Kinetics, 2003), said that she had never heard of collagen -- the supposed magic bullet in some nocturnal diet pills -- used as a weight-loss aid. ''If it were true,'' she said, ''it would be front-page news.'' 
 The products with perhaps the broadest potential market, and often the most extravagant promises, are designed for so-called sleep learning. Professionals who think the boss has been a little slow with that promotion -- and who have left their skepticism in their other briefcase -- can try to kick-start their careers with the Wealth & Success Power Affirmations subliminal program (''start advertising to your own mind''). Sold through sleeplearning.com, it can be played through stereo pillow speakers available on the same Web site for $29.95.
 Not everyone selling self-improvement while sleeping promises overnight miracles. James Schmelter, a certified hypnotherapist who runs hypnotictapes.com out of San Francisco, said sleep learning on its own is often of only marginal benefit, which is why it is only one of four elements in his hypnosis-at-home programs, many of which he records individually for customers and sells for $98. The other three parts of the program are to be listened to awake. 
 Hypnosis is generally accepted as a legitimate technique to facilitate other forms of treatment, like cognitive behavior therapy, said Guy H. Montgomery, a clinical psychologist at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan. 
 But unlike the hypnotized brain, which is receptive to spoken suggestions, the sleeping brain is not so suggestible, said Dr. Michael J. Sateia, the head of the sleep disorders program at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. ''Generally,'' he explained, ''sleep is considered to be a state of being relatively 'offline,' as it were, with respect to extrasensory input.''
 Sleep learning is a self-empowerment concept that dates back at least to Aldous Huxley's ''Brave New World,'' published in 1932, but for most of the intervening years it could be found mainly on cassette programs tucked away on self-help shelves in bookstores alongside volumes on astral projection. That all changed with the Internet. 
 Marc VanDeKeere, for example, is one seller of sleep-learning self-improvement products who said he has noted a spike in business in recent years. Mr. VanDeKeere, a hypnotherapist who operates the Web site brainwave-entrainment.com, said he had seen sales of subliminal problem-solving and meditation products, which he recommends that customers use while sleeping, increase by a third in the last few years. And he proudly points to 17,000 positive feedback responses for his products on eBay. ''Fifteen years ago,'' he said, ''nobody would be able to find these products.'' 
 Eldon Taylor, the founder of Progressive Awareness Research, a company in Medical Lake, Wash., that has marketed a line of hypnosis CDs to be used awake and asleep under the InnerTalk brand since 1984, said demand has grown noticeably in the last five years. He attributes that growth in part to economic anxieties that have increased people's desire to wring productivity out of the wee hours. 
 ''How many times do people change jobs?'' asked Mr. Taylor, whose Web site, innertalk.com, offers CDs titled ''Excel in Exams'' and ''Natural Breast Enlargement.'' 
 ''We live in a society full of more information than we can absorb,'' he said, ''but we're required to absorb it, because if we don't absorb it, we fall out'' of the race. 
 This apparent renewed interest in learning while snoozing comes at a time of increased academic research into the topic. Last year, for example, researchers at the University of Lubeck in Germany found that gently stimulating the brain during sleep with an electrical current at a certain frequency improved the ability of test subjects to remember a string of words they had learned before a nap.
 Still, Dr. Jerome M. Siegel, a professor of psychiatry at the Center for Sleep Research at the University of California, Los Angeles, said that most research he has seen indicates that subliminal sleep learning is of little or no value because ''the sound had to actually wake you before you would benefit.'' Dr. Siegel recalled rigging a speaker system under his own pillow in junior high school in a failed effort to learn French. ''Even when you're sleepy, but not asleep,'' he added, ''you don't learn very well.'' 
 A study in 1992 by the British Psychological Society dismissed the concept of sleep learning, finding that it can ''only occur if the sleeping person is partly awakened by the message.'' But such findings did not kill off interest in the concept and its seductive, something-for-nothing allure. 
 For Candace Kinsella, a retired nurse in Largo, Fla., who wanted to reduce by a few sizes, diet pills were not enough, so she turned to a weight-loss sleep program that is not subliminal, but consists of spoken messages like ''eat more vegetables,'' she said. Despite the potential distraction of someone talking while you're trying to sleep, she said the program, which is sold on the Web site robert-egby.com, is relaxing. ''It's like going to sleep with the TV on,'' she said. 
 She credits it with helping her lose 50 pounds over one year, starting from a weight of 345, simply by providing constant reminders to go to the gym, drink water instead of soda and eat better. ''All of this augments'' a commitment during waking hours to healthy living, she explained.
 Then again, the typical middle-aged American gets as little as 6.1 hours of sleep a night, according to a recent University of Chicago study, instead of the commonly accepted optimum of eight. So people who fail to transform themselves suitably during the wee hours can always fall back on using their sleep to obtain one thing that doctors believe is crucial to a life of happiness and productivity: rest.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter Arkle)(pg. G2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); DIETING (88%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (88%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); KINESIOLOGY (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (69%); WRITERS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); BESTSELLERS (68%); NUTRITION (68%); HEROIN (66%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (61%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (51%) Sleep; Computers and the Internet; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Education and Schools

PERSON: Alex Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



54 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: On S.I., Boom In Construction Is on the Decline

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN and MAUREEN SEABERG

 BODY:
The 20-year building boom on Staten Island, long the city's fastest-growing borough, is decelerating drastically, thanks largely to a reining-in of the island's freewheeling zoning laws, officials say. According to city figures released yesterday, permits for new buildings plunged by 43 percent last year. 
 So substantial was the decline that Staten Island almost single-handedly accounted for a 10 percent dip in building permits citywide last year, which was the first drop in the city in a decade. 
 In the other four boroughs, permits fell by 1.6 percent, the figures from the City Buildings Department show.
 Of course, the real estate market has been cooling all over the city and the country, but city officials and real estate professionals attributed the disproportionate chill on Staten Island to zoning and tax changes. 
 New zoning rules passed in 2004, which were aimed at stemming a flood of town house developments that residents complained were disfiguring communities and overloading streets with traffic, require larger lots and yards and more parking. A tax abatement for new one- and two-family homes was also rescinded last year, further discouraging construction.
 ''It's one of these perfect-storm situations,'' said Sandy Krueger, chief executive officer of the Staten Island Board of Realtors. ''Everything kind of came together at once: the downzoning, the tax abatement removal and the change in the market. I think everybody is sort of taking a breath here and waiting this out a little bit to see what happens.''
 Last year, 826 permits for new buildings were issued in Staten Island, compared with 1,441 in 2005 and nearly 2,000 in 2003. Permits for new units of housing also declined more than 40 percent through November, compared with a 1 percent drop elsewhere in the city, according to census statistics.
 The downturn was broadly welcomed in a place where for years development appeared to proceed with pile driver and shoehorn. A one-acre parcel where 18 units of housing could once be built is limited to 7.
 ''I don't want Staten Island to stop growing,'' said the borough president, James P. Molinaro, who helped lead the drive for the zoning changes, ''but I want proper growth.''
 The decline in new housing permits issued on Staten Island affected multifamily dwellings as well as smaller buildings. Permits for one-family homes fell 49 percent.
 City officials pointed to several developments planned for the island that they said would be more carefully managed, including a 700-unit waterfront complex in Stapleton, north of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, which is expected to bring new life to a vacant port.
 As for the slight citywide drop in new building and housing permits outside of Staten Island, the city's deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff, said he saw little cause for concern. New housing construction is slowing dramatically across the country, he said, and total construction spending in New York City is increasing as builders focus on commercial projects.
 ''Particularly relative to the overall national housing market,'' Mr. Doctoroff said, ''and taking into account the fact that through much of the year interest rates were rising, I think by every indicator the market here was very resilient.''
 Frank Naso, one of Staten Island's biggest builders and the former president of the Building Industry Association of New York City, a trade group, said that zoning changes had been long overdue.
 ''We needed some kind of reform,'' he said. ''We'll continue to build, but instead of building 10 you might build 6. It's not the end of the world.'' 
 Mr. Naso was more upset about the loss of the tax abatement, which cut a homeowner's property taxes for the first eight years after purchase and allowed many first-time buyers into the market. 
 Jeff Gallo, an opponent of sprawl and a member of the Preservation League of Staten Island, who lives in a turn-of-the-century Victorian house in Stapleton, said he had noticed a slight calming in the air.
 ''There's a feeling out in Staten Island now that you just can't get away with everything,'' said Mr. Gallo, a real estate broker who works in Brooklyn.
 Ever since the Verrazano-Narrows bridge was completed in 1964, linking Staten Island to the rest of New York City, people have flocked to the island, developers have worked frenetically to accommodate them, and longtime residents have bemoaned the disappearance of open space and the strain on the island's infrastructure. During the 1990s, Staten Island's population grew by 17 percent and civic discontent skyrocketed. Eventually the clamor brought results.
 Before the zoning change, you were permitted to build a house with a 4-foot backyard,'' Mr. Molinaro said. ''Now you have to have a minimum of 30 feet. You were able to buy a house on Staten Island where your bottom step was the street -- there was no sidewalk. That was legal! You can't do it no more.'' 
 Staten Island, still by far the least-populous borough in the city, was the fastest-growing county in the state, according to the 2000 census. 
 It is not even the fastest-growing borough in the city anymore, having fallen into a virtual tie with Manhattan. From 2003 to 2005, the population in both boroughs grew by about 0.9 percent, according to census estimates.
 Helen Siegel, 52, a schoolteacher who lives in New Springville, in the center of the island, thought back yesterday to the days when cows and pigs from nearby farms used to stroll across her yard.
 ''It might have been better had they done this sooner,'' she said. ''It's all built up on every spare inch of land already.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Drop in Building Permits''Permits issued for new buildings on Staten Island have declined sharply since 2003 while increasing in Queens and Bronx and remaining relatively static in Brooklyn and Manhattan, where most buildings have many units.Chart tracks permits issued for new buildings in Staten Island, Queens, Brooklyn, Bronx and Manhattan, since 2003.(Source by New York City Department of Buildings)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CITIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); CENSUS (50%) Building (Construction); Zoning; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

PERSON: Andy Newman; Maureen Seaberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Staten Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



55 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Garden City: Judges Sue, Seeking Raise 

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Demanding raises for 1,300 state and local judges, four jurists have taken the rare step of suing the governor, Legislature and court system. The suit, filed Friday in State Supreme Court, contends that inflation has effectively cut salaries 28 percent since the last raise, in 1999, violating a constitutional bar against reducing judges' compensation. The suit also accuses legislators of linking judicial pay to their own, violating the separation of powers and ignoring the fact that judges work full time with limited outside work, unlike legislators. The lawyer filing the suit, Steven Cohn, said he had been inundated with support from judges. A court spokesman declined to comment but said court officials were pushing hard for raises. Gov. Eliot Spitzer has said he also supports raises for judges. Legislative leaders declined to comment. BRUCE LAMBERT 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%) Courts; Judges; Suits and Litigation; Wages and Salaries; Law and Legislation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Bruce Lambert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



56 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Getting the Middle East Back on Our Side

BYLINE: By Brent Scowcroft. 
Brent Scowcroft was national security adviser to Presidents Gerald R. Ford and George H. W. Bush. He is now president of the Forum for International Policy.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE Iraq Study Group report was released into a sea of unrealistic expectations. Inevitably, it disappointed hopes for a clear path through the morass of Iraq, because there is no ''silver bullet'' solution to the difficulties in which we find ourselves.
 But the report accomplished a great deal. It brought together some of America's best minds across party lines, and it outlined with clarity and precision the key factors at issue in Iraq. In doing so, it helped catalyze the debate about our Iraq policy and crystallize the choices we face. Above all, it emphasized the importance of focusing on American national interests, not only in Iraq but in the region. 
However, the report, which calls the situation in Iraq ''grave and deteriorating,'' does not focus on what could be the most likely outcome of its analysis. Should the Iraqis be unable or unwilling to play the role required of them, the report implies that we would have no choice but to withdraw, and then blame our withdrawal on Iraqi failures. But here the report essentially stops.
 An American withdrawal before Iraq can, in the words of the president, ''govern itself, sustain itself, and defend itself'' would be a strategic defeat for American interests, with potentially catastrophic consequences both in the region and beyond. Our opponents would be hugely emboldened, our friends deeply demoralized. 
 Iran, heady with the withdrawal of its principal adversary, would expand its influence through Hezbollah and Hamas more deeply into Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian territories and Jordan. Our Arab friends would rightly feel we had abandoned them to face alone a radicalism that has been greatly inflamed by American actions in the region and which could pose a serious threat to their own governments.
 The effects would not be confined to Iraq and the Middle East. Energy resources and transit choke points vital to the global economy would be subjected to greatly increased risk. Terrorists and extremists elsewhere would be emboldened. And the perception, worldwide, would be that the American colossus had stumbled, was losing its resolve and could no longer be considered a reliable ally or friend -- or the guarantor of peace and stability in this critical region.
 To avoid these dire consequences, we need to secure the support of the countries of the region themselves. It is greatly in their self-interest to give that support, just as they did in the 1991 Persian Gulf conflict. Unfortunately, in recent years they have come to see it as dangerous to identify with the United States, and so they have largely stood on the sidelines.
 A vigorously renewed effort to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict could fundamentally change both the dynamics in the region and the strategic calculus of key leaders. Real progress would push Iran into a more defensive posture. Hezbollah and Hamas would lose their rallying principle. American allies like Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the gulf states would be liberated to assist in stabilizing Iraq. And Iraq would finally be seen by all as a key country that had to be set right in the pursuit of regional security.
 Arab leaders are now keen to resolve the 50-year-old dispute. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel may be as well. His nation's long-term security can only be assured by resolving this issue once and for all. However, only the American president can bring them to the same table. 
 Resuming the Arab-Israeli peace process is not a matter of forcing concessions from Israel or dragooning the Palestinians into surrender. Most of the elements of a settlement are already agreed as a result of the negotiations of 2000 and the ''road map'' of 2002. What is required is to summon the will of Arab and Israeli leaders, led by a determined American president, to forge the various elements into a conclusion that all parties have already publicly accepted in principle.
 As for Syria and Iran, we should not be afraid of opening channels of communication, but neither should we rush to engage them as negotiating ''partners.'' Moreover, these two countries have differing interests, expectations and points of leverage and should not be treated as though they are indistinguishable. 
 Syria cannot be comfortable clutched solely in the embrace of Iran, and thus prying it away may be possible. Syria also has much to gain from a settlement with Israel and internal problems that such a deal might greatly ease. If we can make progress on the Palestinian front before adding Syria to the mix, it would both avoid overloading Israel's negotiating capacity and increase the incentives for Damascus to negotiate seriously.
 Iran is different. It may not be wise to make Iran integral to the regional strategy at the outset. And the nuclear issue should be dealt with on a separate track. In its present state of euphoria, Iran has little interest in making things easier for us. If, however, we make clear our determination, and if the other regional states become more engaged in stabilizing Iraq, the Iranians might grow more inclined to negotiate seriously.
 WHILE negotiations on the Arab-Israel peace process are under way, we should establish some political parameters inside Iraq that encourage moves toward reconciliation and unified government in Iraq. Other suggested options, such as an ''80 percent solution'' that excludes the Sunnis, or the division of the country into three parts, are not only inconsistent with reconciliation but would almost certainly pave the way to broader regional conflict and must be avoided.
 American combat troops should be gradually redeployed away from intervening in sectarian conflict. That necessarily is a task for Iraqi troops, however poorly prepared they may be. Our troops should be redirected toward training the Iraqi Army, providing support and backup, combating insurgents, attenuating outside intervention and assisting in major infrastructure protection. 
 That does not mean the American presence should be reduced. Indeed, in the immediate future, the opposite may be true, though any increase in troop strength should be directed at accomplishing specific, defined missions. A generalized increase would be unlikely to demonstrably change the situation and, consequently, could result in increased clamor for withdrawal. But the central point is that withdrawing combat forces should not be a policy objective, but rather, the result of changes in our strategy and success in our efforts.
 As we work our way through this seemingly intractable problem in Iraq, we must constantly remember that this is not just a troublesome issue from which we can walk away if it seems too costly to continue. What is at stake is not only Iraq and the stability of the Middle East, but the global perception of the reliability of the United States as a partner in a deeply troubled world. We cannot afford to fail that test.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); HEZBOLLAH (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (69%); TERRORISM (64%); GLOBALIZATION (62%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (54%); HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: Brent Scowcroft

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (90%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%) Iraq; Israel; Syria; Iran; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



57 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Another Thousand Lives

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
How long can this go on?
 Saddam is dead. The weapons of mass destruction were a mirage. More than 3,000 American G.I.s and scores of thousands of Iraqis have been killed. Voters in the United States have made it clear that they no longer support American involvement in this exercise in sustained barbarism. Incredibly, the U.S. military itself is turning against the war.
And yet the president, against the counsel of his commanders on the ground, apparently is ready to escalate -- to send more American lives into the fire he set in Iraq. 
 In a devastating critique of the war, the newsweekly Army Times led its current edition with the headline: ''About-Face on the War -- After 3 years of support, troops sour on Iraq.'' The article detailed a Military Times Poll that found, for the first time, that ''more troops disapprove of the president's handling of the war than approve of it.''
 Only a third of the service members surveyed approved of the president's conduct of the war, while 42 percent disapproved. Perhaps worse was the finding that only half of the troops believed that success in Iraq was likely.
 The service members made it clear that they were not attacking their commander in chief personally. His overall approval rating remained high. What has turned them off has been the wretched reality of the war. In the article, David Segal, director of the Center for Research on Military Organization at the University of Maryland, said, ''They're seeing more casualties and fatalities and less progress.''
 In other words, they're seeing the same thing everybody else is seeing -- except, perhaps, Mr. Bush.
 On New Year's Day, readers of The New York Times could see the excruciating photo layout of the latest 1,000 American service members to die in Iraq. As in all wars, most of them were young. Many of them were smiling in the photos. All of them died unnecessarily.
 The war has been an exercise in futility and mind-boggling incompetence, and yet our involvement continues -- with no end in sight, no plans for withdrawal, no idea of where we might be headed -- as if the U.S. had fallen into some kind of bizarrely destructive trance from which it is unable to awaken.
 And who is paying the price for this insanity -- apart from ordinary Iraqis, who are paying the most grievous price of all? The burden of the war in the U.S. is being shouldered overwhelmingly by a contingent of Americans whom no one would categorize as economically privileged.
 As Lizette Alvarez and Andrew Lehren wrote in Monday's Times:
 ''The service members who died during this latest period fit an unchanging profile. They were mostly white men from rural areas, soldiers so young they still held fresh memories of high school football heroics and teenage escapades. Many men and women were in Iraq for the second or third time. Some were going on their fourth, fifth or sixth deployment.''
 There is no way that this can be justified. It is just wrong.
 I've said many times that if a war is worth fighting the way to do it is to mobilize the entire country, drawing the warriors from as wide a swath of the population as possible and raising taxes on everyone as part of an all-out effort to defeat a common enemy.
 This war is not worth fighting. And if there were ever serious talk about enacting a draft or raising taxes to fight it, you'd see quickly enough that the vast majority of Americans would not find it worth fighting.
 There must be a leader somewhere who can shake the U.S. out of this tragic hypnotic state, who can see that it is beyond crazy to continue our involvement in this war indefinitely, to sacrifice another 1,000 young lives, and then another thousand after that.
 All of the tortured, twisted rationales for this war -- all of the fatuous intellectual pyrotechnics dreamed up to justify it -- have vaporized, and we're left with just the mad, mindless, meaningless and apparently endless slaughter.
 Shakespeare, in ''Henry VI,'' said: ''Now thou art come unto a feast of death.''
 We should end our participation in the feast of death in Iraq. It is criminal to continue feeding our troops into the slaughter.
 If there were politicians here at home with some of the courage of the troops in the field, we could begin saving lives rather than watching helplessly as the Bush White House continues to sacrifice them. Three thousand and counting is enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Public Opinion

PERSON: Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



58 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Year Ends With Lows For Detroit

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and JEREMY W. PETERS; Micheline Maynard reported from Detroit and Jeremy W. Peters from New York.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
The Detroit auto show, which opens next week, is all about new concepts, building buzz and making fresh starts. And the Detroit auto companies can use all of that.
 In a stern reminder of how hard it has become to sell cars, General Motors, the Ford Motor and the Chrysler Group ended 2006 with two lows, the companies said Wednesday. Their dismal December performance led to their lowest collective market share ever, just 51.5 percent for the month.
And for the year, they held only 53.7 percent of the market, also a low. The reason for the poor showing rests mostly with a lineup laden with sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks that proved out of fashion with Americans' demand for fuel-sipping automobiles. 
 ''Basically, that caught Detroit by surprise,'' said Ron Pinelli, president of Autodata, which tracks industry statistics.
 So did the strength of Toyota Motor of Japan, which set a sales record in 2006 to pass DaimlerChrysler and take third place in the American car market. Now it is bearing down on Ford, which it is expected to unseat this year to take second place, behind G.M. 
 Wednesday's sales report proves that despite the gleaming new models that are set to go on display at the Cobo Center in Detroit this weekend, the competition on the streets will be just as fierce next year, even though gasoline prices are easing. 
 At best, analysts and auto executives expect industry sales to be flat with the 16.5 million sold in 2006, down from 16.9 million sold in 2005, according to Autodata. 
 At worst, some forecasters see sales falling as low as 16 million vehicles, which could force the Detroit companies to speed or expand their revamping plans. ''How do you make profits with less sales?'' said Jesse Toprak, an industry analyst with Edmunds.com, which offers car-buying advice.
 No matter the outcome, one thing seems certain: cars are back, big time.
 Toyota, whose sales rose 12.9 percent last year, gained more than two percentage points to end the year with 15.4 percent of American sales. It sold almost 450,000 Camry sedans, the nation's best-selling car for the fifth consecutive year, and nearly 400,000 small Corollas. 
 ''We're a company that continues to listen to the market,'' said James Lentz, executive vice president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A.
 A bonus for Toyota was its Scion brands, three small vehicles aimed at the industry's youngest buyers. That division racked up almost as many sales last year as Ford did for its Mercury division. 
 Honda Motor, meanwhile, said its sales rose 3.5 percent in 2006 to its 10th consecutive record, mostly because of a strong reception for its small car, the Fit. Together, Toyota and Honda sold almost as many cars and trucks in the United States as G.M., where 2006 sales dropped 8.7 percent.
 Even Ford, whose overall sales fell 7.9 percent in 2006, could point to its cars as a glimmer of hope. It scored a modest-selling hit in the last year with the midsize Fusion, and it is showing a four-door version of the Mustang at the Detroit show, hoping to build on its pony car's success.
 But Ford's efforts on cars cannot camouflage its slumping truck lineup. Sales of its Explorer S.U.V., once the star of its stable of sport utilities, fell 25.3 percent in 2006, while its F-series pickup dropped 11.7 percent. All told, it sold 105,000 fewer of those vehicles than it did in 2005.
 Ford will not overhaul the F-series for more than a year, although it plans a new Super Duty model this winter. 
 By contrast, G.M. has begun selling new models of its pickup, and Toyota will begin selling the biggest version yet of its Tundra next month. 
 ''I think the full-size truck market is going to look very much like a sumo wrestling match,'' said Ford's senior sales analyst, George C. Pipas. ''There is going to be pushing and shoving,'' 
 Paul Ballew, G.M.'s executive director of global market and industry analysis, said the company expected its sales of pickups to remain flat this year.
 ''I know it's been in vogue this year to talk about the sun setting on the truck business; we obviously disagree with that,'' Mr. Ballew said. ''We don't see the market shrinking, and we see our performance as more than holding our own.''
 G.M. did not hold its own in December. Its sales fell 8.7 percent, more than analysts had anticipated given a year-end rebate effort, while its market share for the month was 23.5 percent, compared with an average for the year of 24.3 percent. By contrast, G.M. ended 2005 with 26 percent of the American market. 
 In the last few months, G.M. executives maintained that the company's market share decline had bottomed out, which helped it fend off pressure from the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who had been its biggest individual shareholder before unloading much of his 9.9 percent stake.
 But lately, some analysts have voiced concern that G.M.'s lineup lacks compelling vehicles beyond its pickups, which it expects will sell strongly.
 ''We believe that a more radical and aggressive approach will need to be taken to turn the company around, most specifically in North America,'' John Murphy, a Merrill Lynch analyst, said in a research note on Wednesday, repeating his sell rating on G.M. stock.
 There is also concern in the industry over Chrysler, which offered generous rebates during December to clear out backlogs on dealer lots, especially of leftover 2006 models. Its sales rose 1 percent, though December sales for DaimlerChrysler, including Mercedes, fell 1 percent. For the year, Chrysler sales fell 6.7 percent. Yesterday, the company announced a new wave of incentives of up to $5,000 on some new models.
 Mr. Pinelli said the dismal end to a dismal year was a warning to American auto makers that analysts said was long overdue. 
 ''Detroit gets it now,'' he said. ''They realize that the market-share battle and survival are going to be based on product as well as an image that needs to be revitalized.''


CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture in the auto sales chart in Business Day on Wednesday was published in error. It showed a Nissan Altima Coupe, which is not on the market yet, rather than the Altima sedan, which had a 12.4 percent drop in sales in April. (The error first occurred in the sales chart on Jan. 4.)

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: How the Industry FaredDEC. 2005Cars -- 620,010Light Trucks -- 859,725Total -- 1,479,735DEC. 2006Cars -- 647,919Light Trucks -- 776,489Total -- 1,424,408CHANGECars -- +4.5%Light Trucks -- -9.7%Total -- -3.7%ADJUSTED CHANGE*Cars -- +8.5%Light Trucks -- -6.2%Total -- Unch.ANNUAL SELLING RATE (millions)Cars -- 8.11Light Trucks -- 8.57Total -- 16.68How Automakers FaredDAIMLERCHRYSLERDec. 2006 Sales -- 218,532Adjusted Change* -- +2.8%Market Share -- 15.3%FORDDec. 2006 Sales -- 224,770Adjusted Change* -- -10.7Market Share -- 15.8GENERAL MOTORSDec. 2006 Sales -- 334,846Adjusted Change* -- -9.7Market Share -- 23.5HONDADec. 2006 Sales -- 131,778Adjusted Change* -- +3.1Market Share -- 9.3HYUNDAIDec. 2006 Sales -- 37,365Adjusted Change* -- -9.8Market Share -- 2.6NISSANDec. 2006 Sales -- 91,792Adjusted Change* -- +4.4Market Share -- 6.4TOYOTADec. 2006 Sales -- 228,322Adjusted Change* -- +16.6Market Share -- 16.0Most Popular Cars and TrucksData for the United States.FORD F SeriesDec. 2006 Sales -- 70,580Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- -18.1%CHEVROLET SilveradoDec. 2006 Sales -- 52,396Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- -20.9TOYOTA CamryDec. 2006 Sales -- 39,539Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +23.2DODGE RamDec. 2006 Sales -- 32,875Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +10.2HONDA AccordDec. 2006 Sales -- 29,886Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +17.7TOYOTA CorollaDec. 2006 Sales -- 29,378Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +20.7CHEVROLET ImpalaDec. 2006 Sales -- 26,160Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +22.4NISSAN AltimaDec. 2006 Sales -- 24,832Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +39.8HONDA CivicDec. 2006 Sales -- 23,609Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- -9.1GMC SierraDec. 2006 Sales -- 17,541Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- -14.6HONDA CRVDec. 2006 Sales -- 17,349Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +29.8CHRYSLER 300 SeriesDec. 2006 Sales -- 16,250Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +38.3TOYOTA SiennaDec. 2006 Sales -- 16,090Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +10.5HONDA OdysseyDec. 2006 Sales -- 16,031Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +2.6FORD EconolineDec. 2006 Sales -- 15,999Change from Dec. 2005 Sales -- +14.6Nissan AltimaBIGGEST GAINER -- +39.8%Chevrolet SilveradoBIGGEST LOSER -- -20.9%Sales for DaimlerChrysler include Mercedes
sales for Ford include Volvo and Land Rover
 sales for General Motors include Saab.*Based on average daily sales adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); SEDANS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); PICKUP TRUCKS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) Automobiles; Sales; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Industry Profiles; Automobiles; Records and Achievements; Fuel Efficiency; Two Thousand Six (Year)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (91%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); HNDA (LSE) (85%); HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



59 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: The Paths to Universal Health Care

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Healthy New Year,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Jan. 1):
Yes! We have a fresh Congress and the promise of new approaches. This could be the year to break free from the crippling grip of private insurance companies and provide health care for all, as every other advanced country has long been doing. 
 Medicare, despite some fumbles, works extraordinarily well for millions of our senior citizens. Why not for all? This year we should end our national shame with respect to health care and join the civilized world.

Dora B. Goldstein
Palo Alto, Calif., Jan. 1, 2007

To the Editor: 
 Paul Krugman's proposed solution for our health care mess is half right. We do need a public tax-supported insurance system, like Medicare, to replace the hundreds of private, high-overhead insurance companies. These take 10 to 15 percent of the health care dollar and give little in return. 
 But that would not control rising costs. Despite much lower overhead, Medicare's costs have risen nearly as rapidly as the private sector's. That's because economic incentives encourage overuse of expensive medical technology even when it is of unproven or marginal benefit. 
 Fee-for-service payments of physicians, investor-owned facilities and a market ideology will have to be replaced by salaried physicians working in prepaid medical groups and by nonprofit ownership. A difficult agenda, but nothing less will do. 

Arnold S. Relman, M.D.
Boston, Jan. 2, 2007

The writer is professor emeritus of medicine and social medicine at Harvard Medical School and a former editor of The New England Journal of Medicine.

To the Editor:
 With a tragic milestone reached in Iraq, it is noteworthy that the milestone of 50 million Americans with no medical care coverage is rapidly approaching.
 Few working Americans can afford to pay for their health care if they are seriously ill or injured, or for insurance even when they can obtain it. Employers pay about half of health care costs, which are rising faster than inflation because of many factors, including advances in technology and expensive new medicines. 
 As a doctor, I often see the tragedy when patients delay needed care because they can't pay for it. As an employer, I am faced annually with whether to accept onerous increases in insurance costs or to ask my employees to shoulder more of the burden. Our fragmented payment system for health care makes no sense. 
 I hope that Congress will begin at once to rectify this disgrace. 

William E. Bowman, M.D.
Greensboro, N.C., Jan. 1, 2007

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman is correct that the nation must find a path to universal, publicly financed and administered health care. But where is that path? 
 The fiscal consequences of a leap to such health care appear to be insurmountable, yet could it be done in steps? 
 Perhaps coverage through the Veterans Administration could be the first to be folded into Medicare. Many veterans are over 65, and all would be offered broader services. 
 Covering all children under 16 could be next. Then high-expense procedures like transplants, as is done with dialysis. Then Medicaid recipients. Finally, allowing the remaining people -- relatively healthy, relatively affluent and overwhelmingly employed -- to use their current private insurance payments to buy into Medicare. 
 Could that be the path? 

Michael P. Alexander, M.D.
Newton Centre, Mass., Jan. 3, 2007

The writer is a professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School.

To the Editor:
 Thank goodness for Paul Krugman's willingness to repeat his argument on behalf of us all. 
 Sadly, his appeal for significant and meaningful change has fallen on deaf ears. 
 Legislators, not willing to confront a powerful middleman, are sitting by while lives, jobs, small businesses, international competitiveness and true freedom of choice in health care are mangled by an entity whose value to our overall health is questionable. 

Carol Salter
Boulder, Colo., Jan. 1, 2007

The writer is a registered nurse.

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman (column, Jan. 1) does not discuss a major reason we spend so much and get so little for our health care dollar. 
 Insurance and pharmaceutical companies are publicly traded companies whose main goal is to make money. Their primary mission is not to provide health care coverage for their members; these are merely tools through which profits are generated. 
 Why do we delude ourselves in thinking that these companies would behave more altruistically than other companies? And why do we think these companies would relinquish these goals to help provide health care coverage for all?

Kenneth R. Silk, M.D.
Ann Arbor, Mich., Jan. 1, 2007

The writer is a professor of psychiatry at the University of Michigan Medical School.

To the Editor:
 In thinking about Paul Krugman's review of the failed history of health reform, I am struck by the inherent irony. 
 Here we are, more than a decade after being buffaloed by the ''Harry and Louise'' propaganda of the insurance industry, still watching the numbers of uninsured millions escalating, still worried about being at the mercies of the H.M.O.'s, and now hoping that ''big government'' will finally step in and help us out of this crazy system. 
 Yet, with all this, including the clamor to retain and even expand that big government program -- Medicare -- we still can't envision getting to where we need to be because of our cynicism and distrust of government!

John Schlager
Springfield, N.J., Jan. 1, 2007

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman's appeal for universal health care is right on. 
 While we suffer without the assurance of annual checkups, France, Canada, Scandinavia, Germany, Britain and others find it within their economic abilities to leave no person without annual medical exams and more. 
 The principal reason for our haplessness is, as Mr. Krugman wrote, the lobbying power of insurance businesses. Just why their intrusion into the equation is tolerated is beyond logic. 
 I never saw an insurance agent cure so much as a hangnail. 

Gil Weiss
Stamford, Conn., Jan. 1, 2007


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lewis Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); WRITERS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Advertising and Marketing; Medicare; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Lobbying and Lobbyists; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%) Harvard University

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) Dora B Goldstein; Arnold S (Dr) Relman; William Bowman; Michael P (Dr) Alexander; Carol Salter; Kenneth R (Dr) Silk; John Schlager; Gilbert Weiss; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); NORTHEAST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



60 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: A Country Less Dependent on Oil Is Free to Make Other New Year's Resolutions 

BYLINE: By AUSTAN GOOLSBEE. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
Well, another New Year's Day has come and gone. A string of holiday meals and sitting on the couch have, no doubt, started another wave of resolutions to get some exercise and go on a diet. But after seeing gas prices pass $3 a gallon last year, hearing all the talk about global warming and having a bad feeling about all the bluster coming from the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a great many folks wish the economy would go on a diet, too, and stop using so much energy.
 Some of the fear over energy and the economy, certainly, resides in people old enough to remember some grimmer New Year's Days. In 1973, OPEC imposed an oil embargo against the United States and Western Europe for their support of Israel in the Yom Kippur war. New Year's Day 1974 came in the middle of the first great energy crisis. Oil prices shot up with the embargo and the American economy collapsed into recession -- but not without igniting inflation first. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries had birthed our first stagflation. 
New Year's 1980 was even worse: the Iranian revolution, American hostages and oil prices pushing $40 a barrel. The second great energy crisis once again plunged the American economy into a recession coupled with high inflation.
 Our past seems to show that when oil prices rise too much, our economy cannot grow. These lessons have been taken to heart by Mr. Ahmadinejad and Osama bin Laden as each has contemplated ways to cripple the American economy.
 But the data shows that much has changed since the wrenching days of the 1970s, for American industry at least. The energy used for each dollar of gross domestic product in 1980 was almost 70 percent greater than it is today. While we have collectively wrung our hands over the decline of manufacturing in the country, it has also reduced the relationship between energy prices and growth.
 Manufacturing industries consume about 25,000 B.T.U.'s of energy for each dollar of gross domestic product they generate. The most energy-intensive sectors, like the steel, iron ore and aluminum industries, consume about 70,000 B.T.U.'s. Outside of manufacturing, the economy uses less than 6,000. Hospitals, law offices and banks just are not the same as blast furnaces and smelters.
 So now when the price of oil goes up, as when it almost hit $80 a barrel in 2006 (close to the highest it has ever been, even accounting for all the inflation since the previous energy crises), it does not automatically mean recession. Indeed, it caused only a ripple this last year. Unemployment and inflation both stayed quite low.
 Somewhere in the world, Mr. Ahmadinejad and Mr. bin Laden may be poring over the statistics on the Energy Information Administration's Web site and feeling a nagging pang in their gut. OPEC's ability to impose an oil embargo on the West the way it did in 1974 and bring the economy into recession is highly limited today.
 Paradoxically, although the economy seems somewhat less prone to disruption from energy crises, there remains one enormous group that suffers from high prices: us, the car drivers. Industry has become less and less dependent on energy over time, but the average American commuter is now more dependent.
 From 1980 to 1990, rising Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency standards forced automakers to improve car mileage significantly. Average miles per gallon rose very much in parallel to the energy improvements in the wider economy. That ended in 1990, however. The fuel economy standards on cars stopped rising. Our regulations are now much less stringent than those in Europe, Japan and even China. We also shifted to driving trucks and sport utility vehicles. We moved farther from our places of work and drove a lot more. Since 1990, the number of gallons we use, even on a per vehicle basis, rose substantially.
 So as the price of oil neared $80 a barrel last year and gasoline exceeded $3 a gallon, it did not bring the economy to its knees, the way previous oil crises did. It just hit all of us driving our cars. Mr. Ahmadinejad may not have the ability to terrorize the economy, but he can certainly aggravate soccer moms in their minivans or commuters stuck in traffic by making them pay more.
 If it were November, perhaps the message would be to be thankful for what we have been able to change. But it is not. It is New Year's so the message is different. Forget about New Year's resolutions for the economy and stick to your own. Next time you need to get somewhere, toss the keys and walk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DIETING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); YOM KIPPUR (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); HOSTAGE TAKING (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (67%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%); EXPORT TRADE (52%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (75%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Austan (Prof) Goolsbee

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



61 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS 

 BODY:

CHIEF OF HOME DEPOT LEAVES -- Robert L. Nardelli, the chief executive of Home Depot, who came under heavy criticism for his pay package and his failure to lift the chain's stagnant stock price, was ousted by the board. [Page A1.] 


A VICTORY FOR SHAREHOLDERS -- The surprising departure of Mr. Nardelli was a victory for shareholders hoping to force corporate directors to be more accountable on the increasingly incendiary issue of executive pay. Market Place. [C1.]

NO LONGER AUTOMATIC -- General Electric has long been seen as a training ground of future C.E.O.'s. The ouster of Mr. Nardelli, a G.E. alumnus, may change that perception. [C1.]

A TARGET OF ACTIVISTS -- Mr. Nardelli's rich compensation and poor performance at Home Depot has long been cited by shareholder activists as one of the prime examples of what they view as excessive executive pay. [C4.]

KPMG CHARGE DISMISSED -- A federal judge has dismissed a criminal charge accusing KPMG, the accounting firm, of conspiring to sell illegal tax shelters, after prosecutors said that the firm had met its obligations under a 2005 deferred prosecution agreement. Jeffrey Stein (above), the former deputy chairman at KPMG, filed his own legal request urging the judge not to dismiss the criminal case against KPMG, arguing that the firm had failed to pay the legal fees for his defense. [C7.]

ONE DRUG'S SIDE EFFECTS -- For many patients who take Zyprexa, the antipsychotic drug manufactured by Eli Lilly, the side effects are severe. Exactly how many people have died as a result of those side effects, and whether Lilly adequately disclosed those risks, are central issues in thousands of product-liability lawsuits. [A1.]

BACKGROUND CHECKS AT PORTS -- More than 750,000 port workers will be required to have criminal background and immigration checks in an antiterrorism program announced by the Homeland Security Department. [A14.]

CONCERNS OVER VOTING TESTS -- A laboratory that has tested most of the nation's electronic voting systems, Ciber Inc. of Greenwood Village, Colo., has been temporarily barred from approving new machines after federal officials found that it was not following its quality-control procedures and could not document that it was conducting all the required tests. [A1.]

PLAYS BOTH KINDS OF DVDS -- Warner Brothers plans to announce next week a video disc that can play films and television programs in both Blu-ray and HD-DVD, the two competing formats for high-definition DVDs. [C1.]

SLOWDOWN IN SEX TRADE -- The sex-related entertainment industry's leading performers, owners and fans gather in Las Vegas for conferences amid indications that pornography's robust growth since it came out from behind the counter in the 1970s is slowing. [C6.]

TALENT AGENCIES SCRAMBLE -- Two leading Hollywood agents with top-ranked clients in movies and television joined the Endeavor talent agency after many years at the rival International Creative Management, sparking a Hollywood-style scramble as each agency strove to claim -- or retain -- the agents' star clients. [C6.]

A GECKO ON THE BRIDGE -- The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs the George Washington Bridge, is expected to announce a deal with Geico, the auto insurance giant, to allow a big billboard on top of the toll plaza, as well as other signs. [B1.]

TRAINS TRY TO OUTRUN CRITICS -- Taiwan's new system of sleek, 180-mile-an-hour bullet trains is scheduled to open tomorrow. For some on this congested island, the project is an example of how Asia may be able to control oil imports and reduce air pollution; but others fume over the $15 billion price tag. [A4.]

LOW MARK FOR THE BIG THREE -- General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group ended 2006 with a new low in their collective market share -- 51.5 percent for the month of December. [C1.]

MARKETS FINISH MIXED -- Stocks surged early on the first trading day of 2007, but then fell sharply and closed mixed after minutes from a Federal Reserve meeting indicated that inflation remains a chief concern. [C3.]

EARTHLINK EXECUTIVE DIES -- Garry Betty, an executive who built the EarthLink Corporation from a struggling start-up into a public company that took on telecommunications giants, died on Tuesday in Atlanta. He was 49. [B7.]

ONLINE

WHY ROOTS MATTER -- Health scares and mass-produced food have people reaching for local produce, which has meant a lift for small businesses. A special report is at nytimes.com/business/smallbusiness.

WHO WILL BUY? A special video report follows hopeful entrepreneurs as they bring their products, including greeting cards that hug, to a search sponsored by QVC, the TV shopping network. A report is at nytimes.com/business/smallbusiness.

CAREER CHOICES -- An effective job search requires more than sending out resumes. Job seekers must know as much as possible about potential jobs, including salary comparison data and company research. A report is at nytimes.com/marketing/jobmarket.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LITIGATION (87%); TAX FRAUD (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); CONSPIRACY (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); JUDGES (72%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (67%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (61%); VOTERS & VOTING (61%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (52%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (93%); KPMG (85%); CIBER INC (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (54%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (93%); CBR (NYSE) (63%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (54%); LLY (NYSE) (54%); LEL (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (93%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (93%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (85%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (63%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



62 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: In China's New Revolution, Art Greets Capitalism

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
After the peppered beef carpaccio and before the pan-fried sea bass there were raucous toasts and the clinking of wine glasses in the V.I.P. room of New Heights, a jazzy restaurant in this city's most luxurious location, overlooking the Bund.
 Wang Guangyi, one of China's pioneering contemporary artists, was there. So were Zhang Xiaogang, Fang Lijun, Yue Minjun, Zeng Fanzhi and 20 other well-known Chinese artists and their guests, many of whom had been flown in from Beijing to celebrate the opening of a solo exhibition of new works by Zeng Hao, another rising star in China's bubbly art scene.
''We've had opening dinners before,'' said the Shanghai artist Zhou Tiehai, sipping Chilean red wine, ''but nothing quite like this until very recently.''
 The dinner, held on a recent Saturday night in a restaurant located on the top floor of a historic building that also houses an Armani store and the Shanghai Gallery of Art, was symbolic of the soaring fortunes of Chinese contemporary art. 
 In 2006 Sotheby's and Christie's, the world's biggest auction houses, sold $190 million worth of Asian contemporary art, most of it Chinese, in a series of record-breaking auctions in New York, London and Hong Kong. In 2004 the two houses combined sold $22 million in Asian contemporary art. 
 The climax came at a Beijing auction in November when a painting by Liu Xiaodong, 43, sold to a Chinese entrepreneur for $2.7 million, the highest price ever paid for a piece by a Chinese artist who began working after 1979, when loosened economic restrictions spurred a resurgence in contemporary art. 
 That price put Mr. Liu in the company of the few living artists, including Damien Hirst and Jeff Koons, whose work has sold for $2 million or more at auction. 
 ''This has come out of nowhere,'' said Henry Howard-Sneyd, global head of Asian arts at Sotheby's, which, like Christie's, has just started a division focusing on contemporary Chinese art.
 With auction prices soaring, hundreds of new studios, galleries and private art museums are opening in big cities like Beijing and Shanghai. Chinese auction houses that once specialized in traditional ink paintings are now putting contemporary experimental artworks on the block.
 Western galleries, especially in Europe, are rushing to sign up unknown painters; artists a year out of college are selling photographic works for as much as $10,000 each; well-known painters have yearlong waiting lists; and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and the Pompidou Center in Paris are considering opening branches in China.
 ''What is happening in China is what happened in Europe at the beginning of the 20th century,'' said Michael Goedhuis, a collector and art dealer specializing in Asian contemporary art who has galleries in London and New York. ''New ground is being broken. There's a revolution under way.''
 But the auction frenzy has also sparked debate here about whether sales are artificially inflating prices and encouraging speculators, rather than real collectors, to enter the art market.
 Auction houses ''sell art like people sell cabbage,'' said Weng Ling, the director of the Shanghai Gallery of Art. ''They are not educating the public or helping artists develop. Many of them know nothing about art.''
 But the boom in Chinese contemporary art -- reinforced by record sales in New York last year -- has also brought greater recognition to a group of experimental artists who grew up during China's brutal Cultural Revolution (1966-1976). 
 After the 1989 government crackdown in Tiananmen Square, avant-garde art was often banned from being shown here because it was deemed hostile or anti-authoritarian. Through the 1990s many artists struggled to earn a living, considering themselves lucky to sell a painting for $500.
 That has all changed. These days China's leading avant-garde artists have morphed into multi-millionaires who show up at exhibitions wearing Gucci and Ferragamo.
 Wang Guangyi, best-known for his Great Criticism series of Cultural Revolution-style paintings emblazoned with the names of popular Western brands, like Coke, Swatch and Gucci, drives a Jaguar and owns a 10,000-square-foot luxury villa on the outskirts of Beijing. 
 Yue Minjun, who makes legions of colorful smiling figures, has a walled-off suburban Beijing compound with an 8,000-square-foot home and studio. Fang Lijun, a ''Cynical Realist'' painter whose work captures artists' post-Tiananmen disillusionment, owns six restaurants in Beijing and operates a small hotel in western Yunnan province.
 If China's art scene can be likened to a booming stock market, Zhang Xiaogang, 48, is its Google. More than any other Chinese artist Mr. Zhang, with his huge paintings depicting family photographs taken during the Cultural Revolution, has captured the imagination of international collectors. Prices for his work have skyrocketed at auction over the last two years. 
 When his work ''Bloodline Series: Comrade No. 120'' sold for $979,000 at Sotheby's auction in March, many art insiders predicted the market had topped out and prices would plummet within months. 
 But in October, the British collector Charles Saatchi bought another of Mr. Zhang's pieces at Christie's in London for $1.5 million. Then in November at Christie's Hong Kong auction, Mr. Zhang's 1993 ''Tiananmen Square'' sold to a private collector for $2.3 million. According to Artnet.com, which tracks auction prices, 16 of Mr. Zhang's works have sold for $500,000 or more during the past two years.
 Are such prices justified? Uli Sigg, the former Swiss ambassador to China and perhaps the largest collector of Chinese contemporary art with more than 1,500 pieces, calls the market frothy but not finished.
 ''I don't see anything at the moment that will stop the rise in prices,'' he said. ''More and more people are flocking to the market.''
 Mr. Goedhuis insists that this is the beginning of an even bigger boom in Chinese contemporary art.
 ''I don't think there's a bubble,'' he said. ''There's a lot of speculation but no bubble. That's the paradox. In China there are only a handful of buyers -- 10, 20, 30 -- out of a billion people. You only need another 10 to come in and that will jack up prices.''
 He added: ''Another astonishing fact is there is not a single museum in the West that has committed itself to buying Chinese art. It's just starting to happen. Guggenheim, the Tate Modern, MoMA, they're all looking.'' 
 Representatives from those museums, as well as others, have made scouting missions to China. A growing number of international collectors are looking at Chinese art too.
 ''After the 2005 Sotheby's show I just jumped in,'' said Didier Hirsch, a French-born California business executive who has long collected American and European contemporary art. ''People said the next big run-up in prices would be at Sotheby's in March so I said, 'Now or never.' '' Mr. Hirsch purchased nearly his entire collection -- about 40 works -- by phone after doing research on the Internet. He said he went first for what he called the titans -- the original group of post-'79 painters -- including Wang Guangyi and Liu Xiaodong.
 Some critics here say the focus on prices has led to a decline in creativity as artists knock off variations of their best-known work rather than exploring new territory. Some are even employing teams of workers in assembly-line fashion.
 Christopher Phillips, a curator at the International Center of Photography in New York, has become a regular visitor to China, scouting young artists for the center and other places. On a recent trip ''I went to visit the studio of a well-known Beijing painter,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''The artist wasn't there, but I saw a group of canvases being painted by a team of young women who seemed to be just in from the countryside. I found it a little disconcerting.'' 
 There are also complaints that some artists are ignoring international standards by selling works directly into the auction market, rather than selling first to collectors. And many experts here say that some gallery officials and artists are sending representatives to the auctions to bid on their own works to prop up prices, or ''protect'' the prices of some rising stars.
 But Lorenz Helbling, director of the ShanghART Gallery here, said Chinese artists continue to produce an impressive array of works, and that talk about the market being overrun by commercialism is exaggerated.
 ''Things are much better than they were 10 years ago,'' he said. ''Back then many artists were commissioned to simply paint dozens of paintings for a gallery owner, who went out and sold those works. Now these artists are thinking more deeply about their work because they're finally getting the recognition they deserve.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Yue Minjun with some of his smiling figures in his Beijing studio. One of China's new breed of financially successful artists, he lives in a large walled-off compound. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
''Father and Son,'' a 2005 painting by Zhang Xiaogang. Prices for Mr. Zhang's work have skyrocketed at auction over the last two years. (Photos by Christie's)
Works by the new generation, clockwise from above: ''Marlboro,'' by Wang Guangyi, whose Great Criticism series incorporates Western brand names
''Interior, 2003,'' by Zeng Hao, whose solo show in Shanghai recently opened
''30th Mary,'' by Fang Lijun, a ''Cynical Realist'' painter
and ''Smoking,'' by Zeng Fanzhi. (Photo by Beijing Art Now Gallery)
 (Photo by Saatchi Gallery)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ART COLLECTING (76%); PAINTING (76%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (67%) Art; Auctions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Collectors and Collections; Art

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

PERSON: David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (73%) China; Beijing (China); Shanghai (China)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



63 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; CHANGEOVER IN ALBANY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer's Health Care Pledge Focuses on Easing the Way for Those Entitled

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer vowed yesterday to make health insurance available to all children and enroll all eligible adults in Medicaid. If carried out fully, his pledges would cut the number of uninsured New Yorkers in half.
 But those promises may not turn out to be as ambitious as described. How far they go will depend on details the governor and his staff said would not be made public until late this month.
At their most far-reaching, the governor's plans would give New York the lowest percentage of uninsured people in the country, and would mark a sharp increase in coverage for the poor. Even so, such promises would not be as hard or as expensive to carry out as most people would guess, according to people who study the politics and economics of health care. 
 People who have no health insurance tend to be young and healthy, cheaper to care for and cheaper to cover than those who are currently covered. As a result, the United Hospital Fund, a policy research group, has estimated that covering all of the uninsured in New York would cost $4.1 billion a year -- less than one-tenth of what the state already spends on Medicaid, the health plan for the poor. Most of the uninsured are also poor, and already qualify for Medicaid or a similar program, Child Health Plus, so experts said that easier enrollment and more aggressive recruitment in those programs would almost certainly be at the center of Mr. Spitzer's plans. 
 The biggest obstacle, they said, could be new federal requirements that people signing up for Medicaid produce birth certificates or other proof of citizenship. 
 In his first address to the Legislature, Mr. Spitzer said, ''We will introduce a budget that in the very first year, guarantees access to health insurance for all of New York's 500,000 uninsured children.''
 But to guarantee access to insurance and to guarantee actual coverage could be two very different things. Many people have access to government programs, at least in theory, but do not take advantage of them. Again, the governor did not say precisely what he meant by his promise.
 In New York, children qualify for free health insurance through either Medicaid or Child Health Plus, in households that earn up to 160 percent of the federal poverty line -- about $21,000 a year for a family of four. Above that limit, up to 250 percent of the poverty line -- about $33,000 for a family of four -- they are eligible for Child Health Plus for a premium of $15 a month or less.
 About two-thirds of New York's uninsured children already qualify for one of the programs on those terms. Danielle Holahan, senior health policy analyst at the United Hospital Fund, said, ''That, plus the fact that children are pretty cheap to insure,'' suggests that getting most of them enrolled ''is something we could tackle pretty easily.''
 State law also says that any child, no matter how high the family income, can be enrolled in Child Health Plus by paying a premium that averages less than $200 a month, much less than a commercial insurance policy. Officials in the Pataki administration argued that that means New York already guarantees access to coverage for all children.
 Ms. Holahan said the state could draw middle-income children into Child Health Plus by putting the premiums on a sliding scale as incomes rise, rather than having an abrupt jump up from $15 a month.
 Mr. Spitzer said that within four years, ''we will enroll the 900,000 Medicaid-eligible adults'' by simplifying the paperwork.
 That promise could be tougher to keep, experts said, because he is promising not mere access but actual coverage. Each year, about one-third of the people on Medicaid in New York fail to renew their enrollment, though they remain eligible, so policy analysts say that an easier renewal process would keep some people enrolled. They also proposed tying Medicaid enrollment to food stamps, welfare, schools and other public services.
 But some people are reluctant to sign up, particularly immigrants who mistrust the government or just cannot be bothered.
 ''The only way you ever get to really universal coverage is with some sort of individual mandate requiring people to enroll,'' said Diane Rowland, executive director of the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured.
 Almost 14 percent of New Yorkers are uninsured, according to the Census Bureau, below the national average of nearly 16 percent but well above Minnesota, with the lowest rate, less than 9 percent. If Mr. Spitzer succeeds in insuring all children and all people eligible for Medicaid, the number of uninsured in New York would drop below 7 percent.
 Medicaid spends more than $45 billion a year to insure 4.2 million New Yorkers, but most of those costs are spent on older and disabled patients.
 An estimated 1.2 million people qualify for Medicaid or Child Health Plus but are not enrolled. They are disproportionately healthy young adults and children.
 ''Low-income people who have serious health needs end up in a hospital emergency room, and they enroll in Medicaid at that time, if they're not enrolled already,'' Ms. Rowland said. ''So the remaining uninsured tend to be healthier than those who are insured.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (69%); CITIZENSHIP (67%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; Children and Youth; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Citizenship ; Medicine and Health; Identification Devices; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: United Hospital Fund

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Richard Perez-Pena; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



64 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Pomp and Promises as Rell Begins Full Term

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Casting her first full term as governor as a chance to guide the state through a ''crossroads of needed economic, social, cultural and educational change,'' M. Jodi Rell was sworn in as Connecticut's 87th governor on Wednesday, promising to ''lead'' and ''inspire.'' 
 In her eight-minute speech, Mrs. Rell, a Republican who was elected in a landslide victory last fall, promised to work with Democrats who control the State Legislature to address a litany of issues including education reform, soaring property taxes and energy prices, and costly health care.
But while she offered an optimistic assessment of the future, Mrs. Rell did not say how she planned to address those problems.
 ''As your governor, I will forcefully lend my voice, freely share my vision, and help to shape a Connecticut that is yet to be,'' said Mrs. Rell, 60. ''I will guard the public's trust and continue to do honor to public service.''
 Mrs. Rell assumed the governor's office two and half years ago after John G. Rowland resigned amid a federal corruption investigation and an impeachment inquiry. At the time, Mrs. Rell took her oath in a somber ceremony in which she promised to restore trust. 
 The governor's message was much the same on Wednesday, although with much more pomp. Before taking the oath of office in the atrium of the Legislative Office Building, Mrs. Rell marched in a parade with her husband, Lou, their son, Michael, and their daughter, Meredith. They moved through the streets surrounding the Capitol as dozens of state workers and supporters cheered her on. 
 ''You'll do anything to get out of work,'' Mrs. Rell said. 
 The parade, with a 19-gun salute and marching bands, and a black-tie ball Wednesday evening, were the first elaborate inauguration events held here in nearly a decade. But Ms. Rell broke from tradition by not addressing state lawmakers in a joint session on their first day of the legislative calendar. 
 Her aides indicated that she would present legislators with more concrete plans when she introduced her budget next month. The Democrats hold a veto-proof majority in both legislative chambers and have indicated that they will push for instituting universal health care and reducing energy costs, which are among the highest in the nation. 
 While Ms. Rell said that the state would have to address such problems, she hinted that she would probably support small steps rather than dramatic proposals.
 ''There is a great yearning in our state -- a yearning for change, for improvement and also for greater equality,'' she said. ''And there is also a yearning for stability, for preserving the history, the tradition and the uniqueness of Connecticut-- a yearning, a conflict between change and constancy.''
 In a day marked largely by ceremony rather than debates over policy, James A. Amann, the House speaker, said that Ms. Rell had delivered a message most residents were eager to hear. 
 ''I actually liked the speech,'' said Mr. Amann, a Democrat. ''She tried to tell people that the sun is rising on Connecticut, not setting. People want to hear that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. M. Jodi Rell and her husband, Lou, watched an aerial tribute over the Hartford sky yesterday before she was sworn in. (Photo by Jessica Hill/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VETO (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); IMPEACHMENT (66%); CORRUPTION (51%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%) Governors (US)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (93%) Jennifer Medina; M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



65 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; CHANGEOVER IN ALBANY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: SPITZER REQUESTS SWEEPING ARRAY OF NEW MEASURES

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Sewell Chan and Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting from Albany, and Leslie Eaton from New York.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer proposed overhauling almost every corner of the state's operations and policies in his first address to the Legislature on Wednesday. He said he would move swiftly to guarantee health insurance for all children in the state, toughen campaign finance laws, cut property taxes by $6 billion and draft constitutional amendments to overhaul the state's courts. 
 The dizzying collection of ambitious proposals reflects how the new governor is moving quickly to capitalize on the momentum of his landslide victory and recent government corruption scandals to push through major initiatives early in his term. While some of the proposals were outlined during his campaign, in his speech to lawmakers he offered several new initiatives and promised to accomplish others during his first year in office.
''Make no mistake, the changes I just described will not be easy, but change rarely is,'' he said near the end of the speech, in which he used the words ''reform'' or ''reforms'' 31 times. ''At every major transition point in our history, we have experienced uncertainty and growing pains. We will experience them again.'' 
 In an hourlong address that was largely a repudiation of the policies of his predecessor, George E. Pataki, the new governor said he would seek to broadly overhaul the state's ethics and lobbying rules. He said he would make prekindergarten available to all 4-year-olds by the end of his term, overhaul the public authorities that control most of the state's debt and make New York more inviting to business by reducing the cost of workers' compensation. 
 The speech came two days after his inaugural address, in which he laid out the broad themes of his administration. Wednesday's speech, by contrast, included the outlines of the specific proposals that he hopes to accomplish in the year ahead and in his first term, as he appealed directly to lawmakers.
 During the speech, lawmakers responded with varying degrees of applause, cheers and silence as the list of proposals ticked past -- with Mr. Spitzer once jokingly encouraging them to show more enthusiasm. 
 The two legislative leaders who have ruled the state for the last decade alongside Mr. Pataki generally embraced the speech afterward. 
 ''This is our agenda,'' said the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, the state's top Republican. ''Tax cuts, no new taxes, job creation, education, health care for everyone, reform.''
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, long used to being Mr. Pataki's Democratic foil, responded with relief. 
 ''For the last 12 years, we have witnessed what happens when the two-party system becomes the too-petty system,'' Mr. Silver said, adding that there was ''very little I can disagree with'' in the governor's speech. 
 But there is no shortage of questions, including how Mr. Spitzer will find the money for all his proposals -- an elixir of promises to decrease spending growth over all but, at the same time, spend billions more on school aid and to insure the state's roughly half a million uninsured children while also providing $6 billion in additional property tax relief over the next three years. 
 Mr. Spitzer's plan to rein in health care spending, the largest part of the budget, is politically risky; it is likely to alienate the state's powerful health care unions and lobbyists. Among his proposals are broad changes in the state's Medicaid and health care policies, including carrying out a plan, formulated last year, to reduce the hospitals in the state by about 20. He would also shift ''spending away from expensive institutional nursing homes toward community and home-based alternatives.''
 He pledged to bring transparency to the state's inscrutable formula for doling out school aid, and he said revitalizing the economy of upstate New York would be a top priority. He called the rebuilding effort at ground zero ''a monument to government gridlock'' and said he would move swiftly to reassess the program. He said he would propose legislation to create a nonpartisan redistricting commission and veto ''any proposal that reflects partisan gerrymandering.'' And he said he would seek to eventually have campaigns for state office publicly financed.
 Mr. Spitzer's proposals are at the mercy of lawmakers who benefit from the current system, which practically guarantees them re-election. But the new governor may capitalize on cries for reform in a capital spurred by the investigation, indictment or conviction of at least 10 state lawmakers in recent years.
 And just as Mr. Pataki was able to push through tax cuts and the death penalty in his first year in office, lawmakers may be inclined to support many of the Spitzer proposals given his huge election victory.
 But some proposals would face other formidable obstacles. In his pledge to address longstanding problems with the state court system, his remedies would require amending the State Constitution, a process that involves approval in two consecutive legislative sessions and then direct ratification by voters.
 He said he would submit two constitutional amendments, one of which would tackle the state's court system, which has been described as one of the most complex in the country. In New York, criminal cases are handled by a variety of courts, while lawsuits against the state have a special court of their own. Divorces are heard in the state's Supreme Courts, which are the highest trial courts, but child custody and support cases are often heard in Family Court.
 The second constitutional amendment would allow for the appointment of judges based on merit, which Mr. Spitzer said ''will take the politics out of the selection of judges.'' Most judges in the state are now elected, a process that critics say has been tarnished by a spate of scandals involving unqualified or politically connected judges. 
 His ethics reforms echoed pledges made during the campaign, but they have been given more immediacy by the recent spate of scandals. He said he would move within weeks to introduce ''a reform package to replace the weakest campaign finance laws in the nation with the strongest.''
 The package will include drastically lowering campaign contribution limits, closing loopholes that allow individuals to evade those limits easily, and to ''sharply reduce contributions from lobbyists and companies that do business with the state.''
 After ethics, he said ''our second major challenge'' would be ''the revitalization of our economy in a rapidly changing world,'' and he gave particular emphasis to reviving the battered economy of upstate New York. 
 That was endorsed even by New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg. ''His focus in particular on helping upstate -- where we have had population declines and where education has been falling behind the curve and the economy has been slow or even worse -- that's exactly what this state needs,'' Mr. Bloomberg said after the speech. ''And Eliot Spitzer's going to do a great job.''
 Mr. Spitzer also called for using new state debt to support research into stem cells and other advanced sciences, a proposal that could be resisted in the Republican-led Senate. 
 Among his transportation initiatives, he called for expediting a new Peace Bridge, which connects western New York and Canada over the Niagara River at Buffalo. Downstate, he called for building the ''first segment of the Second Avenue subway'' and planning ''for the full extension to Lower Manhattan.'' He also called for finishing the plan to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge and enlarge Stewart Airport in the Hudson Valley ''to become the fourth major airport'' downstate.
 Much of the fine print of the governor's proposals will have to wait until the end of the month, when Mr. Spitzer unveils his first executive budget. But even members of his own party are preparing for upheaval. 
 ''Some of the things are tough, but as I told my colleagues, it's been pretty easy around here,'' said the Senate minority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, a Queens Democrat. ''Now you have to step up, and you're going to have to buckle down a little bit, and do the work that the people voted you to be doing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Eliot Spitzer with, from left, Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson, Andrew M. Cuomo and Joseph L. Bruno. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 With an ambitious set of proposals, Gov. Eliot Spitzer delivered the State of the State address yesterday in the Capitol's Assembly chamber. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); SCANDALS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); JOB CREATION (63%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (50%) State of the State Message (NYS); Ethics; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Children and Youth; Elections; Finances; Property Taxes; Courts; Constitutional Amendments

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); RICK PERRY (59%); ANDREW CUOMO (59%); DAVID PATERSON (58%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; George E (Gov) Pataki; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



66 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Bush's Iraq Plan, Democrats Weigh Replies

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Some key Senate Democrats say they could consider supporting a short-term increase in American troop levels in Iraq, a stance that reflects division within the party and could provide an opening for President Bush as he prepares to announce his revised plan for Iraq as early as next week.
 Mr. Bush is expected to outline a strategy that would include adding to American forces, but would link that increase to a plan for economic development in Iraq. He has vowed to consult Congressional leaders before delivering his speech to the nation, and he began that process on Wednesday night by inviting House and Senate leaders to a White House reception, though officials said Iraq was not discussed. 
Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who will lead the Armed Services Committee, said he would not ''prejudge'' the president's proposal. While he would oppose an open-ended commitment, Mr. Levin said, he would not rule out supporting a plan to dispatch more troops if the proposal was tied to a broader strategy to begin reducing American involvement and sending troops home.
 ''The American people are skeptical about getting in deeper,'' he said in an interview. ''But if it's truly conditional upon the Iraqis' actually meeting milestones and if it's part of an overall program of troop reduction that would begin in the next four to six months, it's something that would be worth considering.''
 But Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who will become chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, has said he is opposed to increasing troop strength regardless of the plan, calling the idea the ''absolute wrong strategy.'' In interviews on Wednesday, several Democratic senators echoed Mr. Biden's view, saying they believed that sending more troops would not resolve the predicament in Iraq.
 Democrats have become well-practiced at playing the roles of critic and skeptic, particularly when the subject is the war in Iraq. But as the party formally assumes control of Congress on Thursday, the divisions between the committee leaders, party leadership and rank-and-file senators illustrate the fresh burden they face of articulating a response to Mr. Bush's revised Iraq strategy. 
 Democrats may find it difficult to speak with one voice in response to Mr. Bush's plan. And at this point, party strategists said, they do not necessarily intend to. Over the next three weeks, Senate Democrats plan to call at least 13 hearings on Iraq, to be held by committees that include Foreign Relations, Armed Services, Intelligence, Homeland Security and Judiciary. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates have agreed to testify, officials said, and invitations were sent this week to a raft of former administration officials, academics and military and Iraqi experts. 
 Short of reducing military financing, which even the staunchest Congressional war critics have been reluctant to do, Democrats say they believe that one of the most effective tools they have to influence policy is to hold televised hearings. 
 ''What you are going to find is that this is no longer exclusively a Democratic criticism,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who is a member of the Armed Services Committee. ''A lot of Republicans are going to be standing up and saying, 'I don't understand what the president's strategy is.' A lot of people will be asking serious questions, and that will be healthy.''
 Senator Evan Bayh, an Indiana Democrat who also serves on the Armed Services Committee, said a troop increase ''might lead to a temporary abatement to the violence, but will only postpone the ultimate day of reckoning.''
 In an interview, Mr. Bayh added, ''This problem is not going to be solved in Washington by the president of the United States; it can only be resolved by Iraqis.''
 In a memorandum sent Wednesday to members of the Democratic caucus, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, who becomes the majority leader, pledged that ''Democrats will work with Republicans to bring oversight and accountability'' to the war.
 Mr. Reid has said that he will consider supporting a short-term increase in troops, but his spokesman, Jim Manley, declared, ''If it's not temporary in nature, it's a nonstarter.''
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat who will be the House majority leader, stopped short of saying that Democrats would exercise the power of the purse and decrease financing for American troops. Yet he said the new Congress was ''not going to sit silently by while policies are pursued with which we don't agree.''
 Still, the Bush administration intends to try to find support from the crop of newly elected members of Congress -- particularly those who were elected from Republican districts -- as the president works to build support for his Iraq strategy before the State of the Union address, now set for Jan. 23. 
 On the issue of sending more troops to Iraq, the White House is also reaching out to Senate Democrats who are facing re-election in 2008.
 ''I am not in favor of that unless the president can convince me otherwise,'' Senator Mark Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat who will serve on the Armed Services Committee, said of a possible troop increase. 
 ''I think that the Congress, after 9/11, was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt on a whole range of issues related to Iraq,'' Mr. Pryor said, ''but we've been there four years now and it's time for him to clearly have the burden of proof.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers of the 82nd Airborne Division boarded a plane yesterday in North Carolina. About 3,300 are to be sent to Kuwait by the end of the week. (Photo by Logan Mock-Bunting/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TESTIMONY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOE BIDEN (79%); CARL LEVIN (79%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Jeff Zeleny; George W (Pres) Bush; Carl (Sen) Levin; Joseph R Jr (Sen) Biden

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



67 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Mexican U.N. Insider Gets Manager's Post 

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Ban Ki-moon, on his second day as secretary general, appointed a high-level United Nations insider, Alicia Barcena Ibarra, to the top management post, a signal that he does not plan aggressive reforms in the much-criticized bureaucracy. 
 Ms. Barcena, 54, is a career diplomat from Mexico who served for most of last year as the chief of staff for Kofi Annan, Mr. Ban's predecessor. Before that, since July 2003, Ms. Barcena had been the deputy executive secretary of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, a United Nations development agency based in Chile.
 United Nations diplomats pointed out that Ms. Barcena, although a well-regarded diplomat, had little of the front-line administrative experience needed to run the unwieldy United Nations system, which employs 16,500 people worldwide.
 Her appointment marked the first time since 1992 that her position, under secretary general for management, has not been held by an American. In years past, the United States government has battled for the position, but this time Washington is lobbying instead for the top policy-making job, under secretary general for political affairs.
 Several diplomats said the choice of Ms. Barcena cast doubt on statements Mr. Ban made on Tuesday, when he said in a meeting with United Nations staff members that he wanted to overhaul ''the working culture'' of the organization.
 ''It's a missed opportunity in terms of having a clean break from the Kofi Annan era,'' said one Security Council diplomat. ''It would have made sense if she had immense financial and management experience. But to the contrary, she doesn't.''
 But the announcement cited Ms. Barcena's broad knowledge of the sprawling United Nations organization. She has also worked closely with Mr. Ban during the transition from Mr. Annan's leadership, and Mr. Ban has said he will appoint more women to senior positions.
 ''He has set his agenda, and I am sure that Ms. Barcena agrees with that agenda,'' said Michele Montas, Mr. Ban's spokeswoman. 
 The management post had been filled since June 2005 by Christopher B. Burnham, a former Marine Corps reserve colonel and investment banker. Under his tenure, the United Nations adopted new protections for whistleblowers, formed an ethics office, updated its financial disclosure policies and reorganized the procurement department, which has been the target of several criminal fraud indictments. Mr. Burnham stepped down in November.
 In the meeting Tuesday with Mr. Ban, Stephen Kisambira, the president of the staff members' union, said the United Nations needed ''a fundamental change in the mindset of senior management'' from a current approach that he said was based on ''dominance, disregard and fear.''
 Mr. Ban also appointed Sir John Holmes, the British ambassador to France, as under secretary general for humanitarian affairs and coordinator of emergency relief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ETHICS (77%); LOBBYING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (64%); INDICTMENTS (60%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN (57%) United Nations

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (91%) Julia Preston; alicia ibarra barcena; Ban Ki-Moon (Sec Gen)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CHILE (79%); FRANCE (72%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



68 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS: WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Bush Reaches Out, but Keeps One Hand on the Wheel

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
In an article published on a friendly op-ed page, and from the regal confines of the White House, President Bush greeted the incoming Democratic leadership of Congress on Wednesday with a message of bipartisanship.
 But he also sent another message: I'm still the guy with the big plane, the big office (the oval one) and the presidential seal.
With the op-ed, in The Wall Street Journal, and in the Rose Garden appearance, Mr. Bush sought to set the governing agenda one day before Democrats were officially to take control of Congress and alter the balance of power that has favored Mr. Bush's party for nearly his entire presidency. 
 In doing so, Mr. Bush mixed calls for unity in governing with a series of red flags on his signature issues.
 Tax increases? Forget it.
 ''The elections have not reversed the laws of economics,'' Mr. Bush wrote in The Journal. ''It is a fact that economies do best when you reward hard work by allowing people to keep more of what they have earned.''
 The war in Iraq? ''We now have the opportunity to build a bipartisan consensus to fight and win the war,'' he wrote. In other words, we're staying.
 That new Democratic majority? It isn't really so big. 
 ''The minority party, especially where the margins are close,'' Mr. Bush wrote, ''has a strong say in the form bills take.'' And the president, he added -- lest anyone forget -- has the constitutional authority ''to use his judgment whether they should be signed into law.''
 Several Democrats said Mr. Bush's words on Wednesday had raised questions about what kind of president would show up when they get down to the business of governing side by side. 
 Some Democrats may have hoped it would be the George W. Bush who contritely acknowledged a ''thumpin' '' for his party the day after the elections in November. But the evidence suggests it is more likely to be the man who all but ignored the disputed circumstances of his election in 2000, governed from then as if he had an expansive mandate and who -- even as he has employed soothing tones in speaking to and about Democrats for the last two months -- has gradually but firmly reasserted himself on both foreign and domestic policy.
 ''I think what the op-ed showed was the fundamental division within the White House and probably within the president's head whether to stick to the old issues and just talk bipartisanship versus really doing it,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the new vice chairman of the Democratic caucus in the Senate, in an interview.
 The first few weeks of January are traditionally when the White House carefully rolls out new or repackaged policy initiatives before the president's State of the Union address, a period when he can set the agenda. But for the first time since early 2002, when Democrats controlled the Senate, Mr. Bush has to share power and the national microphone. He also has to show that he has a domestic agenda at a time when his presidency is largely consumed by Iraq.
 Both sides were making some effort on Wednesday to play nice. White House officials noted that the president had highlighted several areas in which he has shown a willingness to work more closely with Democrats, like on a new minimum wage and a new immigration law. 
 And the White House arranged for a plane to bring the incoming Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, back to Washington from Gerald R. Ford's funeral in Grand Rapids, Mich., in time for a reception with Mr. Bush and the other Congressional leaders.
 In a memorandum that Mr. Reid issued Wednesday to fellow Democrats, he wrote, ''I'm encouraged that President Bush said today that he wants to work in bipartisanship.''
 But, he added, ''I hope he means it.'' And in defining his own approach to bipartisanship, Mr. Reid went on to praise Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, saying Mr. Smith's commentary last month on the administration's war policy -- in which Mr. Smith said it ''may even be criminal'' -- had ''signaled a sea change over how Congress will address the Iraq war.''
 Mr. Reid promised to work with Republicans to ''bring oversight and accountability to the Bush administration's conduct of the war and ensure a new policy that meets conditions on the ground'' but also ''allows our troops to come home.''
 Democrats were moving quickly to hold the administration accountable, in their view, for its mistakes, promising to hold as many as a dozen oversight hearings on the war alone in the next few weeks. 
 In interviews, White House officials did not hesitate to acknowledge that they were taking advantage of the last day before the Democrats take control to assert some presidential power.
 Nor did they dispute Democrats' suspicions that the White House placed Mr. Bush's opinion piece in The Journal to reassure a target audience of nervous fiscal conservatives -- and the financial markets -- that he remained philosophically opposed to any tax increases. 
 But administration officials disputed Democratic assertions that the president was trying to upstage them before their big day.
 ''It's an appropriate time to say where we are on these things and to again reiterate the president's view that we can work together to find common ground,'' said Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman. ''It also doesn't mean that a Democrat-controlled Congress passes whatever they want and we sign it -- that's not bipartisanship.''
 But it was clear that as both sides spoke about bipartisanship, they were defining it on different terms. 
 Mr. Fratto acknowledged as much, saying, ''We'll have to see as we go forward over the next six months, in particular, if everyone has the same understanding of what bipartisanship means.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, in the Rose Garden yesterday, spoke out for a new bipartisanship the day before Democrats officially took over in Congress. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAUCUSES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) Law and Legislation

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



69 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: The Democrats' Cautious Tiptoe Around the President's Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
President Bush is all but daring Democratic leaders to attack his signature tax cuts as they take over Congress. But Democrats, perhaps to his frustration, are having none of it.
 In an opening salvo on Wednesday, Mr. Bush proclaimed that he would present a budget next month that manages to project a balanced budget by 2012 while permanently extending more than $1 trillion in tax cuts.
''It is also a fact that our tax cuts have fueled robust economic growth and record revenues,'' Mr. Bush wrote in an op-ed article for The Wall Street Journal. ''We met our goal of cutting the deficit in half three years ahead of schedule.'' 
 The implicit message, which Republican lawmakers reinforced later, was that their tax cuts were popular with voters, that Republicans had proven the economic benefits of tax cuts and that Democrats would court disaster if they even hinted at rolling them back or repealing them.
 But even as Democratic leaders continue to accuse Mr. Bush of having a reckless fiscal policy, they have refused to discuss dismantling his tax cuts or even to engage in a debate with him about the best way to stimulate economic growth. 
 ''It's always the same old tired line with them -- 'Tax and spend, tax and spend, tax and spend,' '' said Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''We're not going there.''
 At least not now. Democratic leaders say they see no need to revisit Mr. Bush's tax cuts for several years because they are not set to expire until the end of 2010. And they contend that the government could increase revenues as much as $100 billion a year simply by closing the ''tax gap,'' taxes that are owed but not paid.
 When asked about their tax plans, as they have been again and again since Nov. 7, Democratic leaders insist they want to preserve many of the middle-class tax cuts like the child tax credit and a reduction in the so-called ''marriage penalty'' for two-income households.
 The Democrats' coyness is less than candid. Although it is true that Mr. Bush's tax cuts have four more years of life, it is also true that Congress faces serious fiscal headaches that cannot be postponed for even a full year.
 One of those challenges is the Iraq war. The conflict is likely to cost far more than $100 billion this year, even if the United States began reducing troop levels. 
 So far, Mr. Bush has kept war spending out of the regular budget request that he sends to Congress each February, instead seeking the money on an expedited as-needed basis. 
 Democrats say, however, that they will not accede to such requests, as their Republican predecessors did, because they sidestep the process by which Congress normally debates spending priorities.
 Perhaps the bigger and more enduring problem is the alternative minimum tax, a tax that was originally intended for the richest households but that has been not adjusted for inflation and is rapidly engulfing tens of millions of middle-class families every year.
 To prevent the alternative tax from becoming a de facto tax increase, Congress has been passing temporary fixes for the last several years. Those fixes now cost more than $50 billion a year, and the cost is expected to climb sharply for the rest of the decade.
 Repealing the alternative minimum tax, a goal shared by Democrats and Republicans, would reduce government revenues by about $1 trillion over the next 10 years and would be a huge drain on the Treasury that nobody in either party has figured out how to finance.
 Democrats, meanwhile, have a wish list of their own. House Democrats plan to reduce interest rates on student loans by half as part of their plan to pass measures that they have long favored in the first 100 legislative hours. 
 Democrats also want to funnel more money to develop alternative energy sources, domestic security and the Children's Health Insurance Program. 
 House Democrats plan to reintroduce tough new ''pay-go'' budget rules as early as this Friday. Under ''pay-go,'' which governed spending measures in the 1990s but expired in 2002, new entitlement programs or new tax cuts have to be matched by comparable spending cuts or tax increases. 
 Politicians in both parties may be feeling a temporary reprieve from fiscal pressures because the budget deficit has indeed declined sharply in the last two years.
 Largely because of big back-to-back increases in tax revenue for the last two years, the deficit shrank to $248 billion in 2006 from a peak of $412 billion in 2004.
 Measured as a share of the total economy, the approach economists view as more meaningful than the deficit size in dollars, the shortfall is 1.9 percent of the gross domestic product, modest by historical standards. 
 But many budget analysts remain highly skeptical about Mr. Bush's promise to eliminate the deficit, noting that the balanced budget would not occur until four years after he had left office.
 One reason for the skepticism is that the government would be renewing all of Mr. Bush's tax cuts at precisely the time that the 76 million baby boomers have begun pouring into retirement and claiming government benefits from Social Security and Medicare. 
 White House budget forecasts have also proven wildly wrong in both good years and bad, as tax revenue plunged far more than officials predicted from 2001 through 2004 and climbed faster than predicted in 2005 and 2006.
 Despite the recent jump in tax receipts, moreover, federal tax collections are still low as a share of the total economy. Spending, on the other hand, climbed sharply as a share of the economy and remains high by historical standards.
 Mr. Conrad of the Budget Committee acknowledged on Tuesday that higher taxes, especially on wealthier families, would eventually have to be part of a comprehensive plan that included tough spending restraint and an overhaul of entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare.
 ''I believe that if Americans are told the truth they will support actions necessary to address the budget,'' he said. ''If we're going to be honest about this, it's going to require both sides' giving up some of their fundamental positions.''
 But other Democratic lawmakers say it would be almost pointless to lead an unpopular fight over raising taxes until Republicans are willing to share some of the political pain. 
 With Mr. Bush almost certain to fight almost any effort to revisit his tax cuts, and Republicans in Congress unlikely to rebel against the president, Democrats are inclined to wait until after Mr. Bush is gone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); IRAQ WAR (60%); MARRIAGE (50%) Taxation; United States Economy

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KENT CONRAD (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007



70 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Ethanol Raises Concerns About Corn as a Food

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Renewing concerns about whether there will be enough corn to support the demand for both fuel and food, a new study has found that ethanol plants could use as much as half of America's corn crop next year. 
 Dozens of new ethanol plants are being built by farmers and investors in a furious gold rush, spurred by a call last year from the Bush administration and politicians from farm states to produce more renewable fuels to curb America's reliance on oil. But the new study by the Earth Policy Institute, an environmental group, found that the number of ethanol plants coming on line has been underreported by more than 25 percent by both the Agriculture Department and the Renewable Fuels Association, the ethanol industry's main lobbying group. 
The Earth Policy Institute says that 79 ethanol plants are under construction, which would more than double ethanol production capacity to 11 billion gallons by 2008. Yet late last month, the Renewable Fuels Association said there were 62 plants under construction.
 The lower tally has led to an underestimate of the grain that would be needed for ethanol, clouding the debate over the priorities of allocating corn for food and fuel, said Lester R. Brown, who has written more than a dozen books on environmental issues and is the president of the Earth Policy Institute. ''This unprecedented diversion of corn to fuel production will affect food prices everywhere,'' Mr. Brown said.
 Bob Dinneen, the president of the Renewable Fuels Association, said the group had not intentionally tried to play down the number of plants under construction. ''It has been a moving target,'' Mr. Dinneen said in an interview on Thursday. ''We are not trying to hide the ball. We are trying to keep up with a growing and dynamic industry as best we can.''
 The Renewable Fuels Association has generally played down concerns in the food versus fuel debate over ethanol, saying that estimates showed there would be plenty of corn to meet the demand for both. ''We can absolutely do that without having a deleterious impact on consumer food prices,'' Mr. Dinneen said. 
 The National Corn Growers Association said Thursday that farmers were keeping up, noting that growers produced their third-largest crop in 2006 of 10.7 billion bushels. ''All demands for corn -- food, feed, fuel and exports -- are being met,'' Rick Tolman, chief executive of the corn growers, said in a statement. ''Farmers have always responded to price signals from the marketplace and, historically, we have had much more challenge with overproduction than shortage.''
 With spot prices of corn soaring to record highs of nearly $4 a bushel last month, farmers are expected to plant some 85 million acres of corn this year, an increase of 8 percent over 2006 and what would be the largest corn-seeding in the country since 1985, said Dan Basse, president of AgResource, an agricultural research company in Chicago.
 Ethanol has raised the incomes of farmers and given new hope to flagging rural economies. But the reliance on corn to produce ethanol in the United States has drawn concerns from some economists, who question whether the drive to corn-based fuel will push up the prices of livestock and retail prices of meat, poultry and dairy products.
 Mr. Brown is among those who believe the ethanol industry is growing too quickly. He called for a federal moratorium on the licensing of new distilleries. ''We need a time out, a chance to catch our breath and decide how much corn can be used for ethanol without raising food prices,'' he said Thursday.
 Like many other experts, he advocates moving past corn-based ethanol into cellulosic ethanol, produced from plant waste and nonfood crops like switch grass. 
 For now, however, in the anticipation of high potential returns, ethanol plants that rely on corn are being built by everyone from farmers to Bill Gates of Microsoft to a mix of Wall Street investors. In addition to the 116 ethanol plants in production, and the 79 under construction, at least 200 more ethanol plants, with a capacity of 3 billion gallons a year, are in the planning stages. 
 In all, ethanol distilleries now running or in the works will pull an estimated 139 million tons of corn from the 2008 corn harvest, according to the Earth Policy Institute. That is about double the demand projected by the Agriculture Department and will require over half of the projected 2008 corn harvest of about 11 billion bushels.
 Keith Collins, the Agriculture Department's chief economist, did not respond to requests for comment. One reason for the department's projection of just 60 million tons of corn used for ethanol is that it was released last February, before surging oil prices set off investor interest in ethanol plants. The Agriculture Department will release its new projections next month.
 But the pace of plant construction may be slowing. Shortages of galvanized steel and backlogs for special tanks for the distilleries have pushed construction time back from 18 months to as much as 28 months for some plants, Mr. Basse said. 
 Some towns are also demanding environmental studies to better understand the impact ethanol plants can have on water supplies and quality of the groundwater, which has delayed permits for new processing plants.


GRAPHIC: Photo: All 110 acres of corn harvested by Mid-Missouri Energy last fall from a farm in Saline County will be used for ethanol production. (Photo by Ed Zurga for The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (96%); ALCOHOLS (96%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (94%); BIOFUELS (92%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); LOBBYING (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Food; Corn; Grain

ORGANIZATION: Earth Policy Institute

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



71 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Services Sector Slowed Last Month

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Growth in the services sector slowed as expected in December and new factory orders rose at a disappointing pace in November, pointing to a slackening economy, reports showed yesterday.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its services index dipped to 57.1 in December, from 58.9 in November. This was broadly in line with market expectations for a 57.0 reading. A number above 50 indicates growth in the sector. 
The services sector, including businesses like restaurants, hotels, hair salons, banks and airlines, makes up about 80 percent of United States economic activity.
 Supporting the view of a slowing economy was news from the Commerce Department that factory orders rose 0.9 percent in November, below the consensus outlook for a 1.4 percent gain.
 Consumers also appear to be showing signs of fatigue. Retailers posted disappointing December sales, marking the third consecutive month of disappointing growth, according to the research firm Retail Metrics.
 The minutes of the December meeting of the Federal Reserve, released Wednesday, said that some members had noted that the ''subdued tone'' of recent economic data meant that risks to growth had increased.
 For that reason, analysts expect the central bank to start easing monetary policy sometime this year, after a cycle of raising the federal funds rate 17 times, to 5.25 percent, from June 2004 and June 2006. The next policy-setting meeting for the Fed is scheduled for the end of the month.
 In yesterday's report, the Commerce Department said that, excluding transportation, November factory orders fell 0.5 percent.
 Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, seen as a gauge of business spending, fell 1.1 percent, after a 4 percent decrease the previous month. The last time this measure fell for two consecutive months was in February and March 2005.
 ''The economy is running at a subtrend pace, and this is consistent with real G.D.P. being on the weak side of its 3 percent potential rate,'' said Chris Rupkey, vice president and senior financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York, referring to the gross domestic product.
 Housing and jobless claims data released yesterday gave a slightly different picture, however.
 The National Association of Realtors said its pending home sales index, based on contracts signed in November, fell to 107.0, from 107.5 in October, but held above July's trough. The index had been forecast to be 108.0.
 ''The index is pointing toward fairly stable home sales in the near future,'' David A. Lereah, chief economist for the trade association, said in a statement. ''That is another indicator that home sales likely bottomed out in September.''
 The number of workers applying for initial jobless benefits edged up 10,000, to 329,000 in the week ended last Saturday, beating market expectations. But analysts said that the figure had been distorted by the holidays and that the job market remained stable.
 Nonfarm payroll data for December, scheduled to be released today, will give a clearer picture of the labor market.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Factory Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted.NOV.: +0.9%OCT.: -4.5SEPT.: +1.7(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NEW ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); AIRLINES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (56%) United States Economy; Housing; Sales

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%) Institute for Supply Management; National Association of Realtors

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



72 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: The Year That Made Deal Makers Giddy

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
For deal makers, does it get any better than this?
 A heady cocktail of rapidly growing emerging markets, floods of private equity and hedge fund money, buoyant chief executive confidence and a hungry debt market that seems willing to snap up nearly everything that banks can dish out has created an environment so fertile that mergers in 2006 surpassed all records.
Globally, there were $3.79 trillion worth of deals last year, up 38 percent from 2005, according to data from Thomson Financial. 
 Deals were even up 11 percent from the heights of 2000, the year of the AOL-Time Warner merger that has come to symbolize the dangers of a mergers and acquisitions bubble. Many of the deals of that year left a hangover of bad debt and broken companies. 
 Records were also broken last year for hostile deals and European deals. Dealogic, a competing statistics firm, says that 2006 deal flow was even higher, at $3.98 trillion. 
 Gavin MacDonald, head of European mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Stanley, acknowledged that he had ''seen a few cycles'' in more than 20 years as a banker, but never one like this. 
 ''We thought in 2000 we might not see its like again, but we've surpassed even that,'' he said. 
 No one can agree on what happens next. 
 Steven A. Baronoff, the global head of mergers and acquisitions at Merrill Lynch, said, ''The question a lot of people are asking themselves is, 'Last time it ended relatively badly, so will we see the same kind of problems in the future?' '' 
 Many bankers, perhaps not surprisingly, insist the answer is no. After all, deals during this boom have been happening throughout many industries, not concentrated in just telecommunications and new media as they were in 2000. They are being financed by fast-growing cash flows and forgiving capital markets, not overpriced stock.
 ''This time around it is a very different environment,'' Mr. Baronoff said. ''It's a much more balanced boom.''
 And although deal volume is up, the prices that companies are paying are still well below what they were in 2000, said David Kirshenbaum, chief operating officer for global mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup. 
 ''We're seeing lower premiums and much higher identifiable synergies, and a positive reaction from the stock market,'' he said.
 Others, however, see a slowdown in deals coming this year. 
 Phil Isherwood, an equity strategist with Dresdner Kleinwort, said to ''prepare for a peak in 2007.'' One of the symptoms, he said, is the prevalence of cash deals. Through mid-December, some 70 percent of announced mergers were cash instead of stock, he said, compared with a 10-year average of 40 percent. 
 ''This use of cash is a symbol and symptom of a bubble, not an argument against it,'' he said. 
 Too much money is chasing too few deals, driving up prices, Mr. Isherwood said. ''Bigger deals, bigger borrowing and bigger prices equals bigger risk, not bigger fun.''
 Indeed, the ever-bigger buyouts of 2006 have raised concerns about the amount of debt used to do the deal. 
 ''Given current leverage levels and recent developments in the economic/credit cycle, the default of a large private equity backed company or a cluster of smaller private equity backed companies seems inevitable.'' the Financial Services Authority, the British markets regulator, said in a November report.
 Private equity buyers accounted for nearly a fifth of all deals in 2006, according to Thomson. The volume of these deals doubled in the United States in 2006, as they aggressively outbid corporate buyers. 
 For example, a group including Blackstone and the Texas Pacific Group bought the medical device company Biomet for $10.9 billion last month, snatching it from the jaws of a larger rival, Smith & Nephew of Britain, which had courted the company for months. 
 To win the day, they are taking out larger and larger loans. Over all, $183.3 billion in high-yield debt was issued in 2006, according to Thomson, up 52 percent from a year before. 
 The key to keeping the merger mania going is liquidity -- or the willingness of banks to lend money. So far, the door has been wide open for most borrowers, thanks in part to the exponential growth of new products like credit derivatives and credit default swaps, which allow lenders lay off some of the risk to other buyers. That door, of course, could slam shut if a deal goes sour, predict bankers and investors. 
 But so far, there is no sign the party is ending: Private equity funds raised about $400 billion in 2006, and as of December had about $700 billion available to do deals. Morgan Stanley predicts that 2007 will bring even more large leveraged buyouts, including some huge European deals in the $25 billion to $35 billion range. 
 If there is a slowdown on the horizon, many bankers predict it will not happen until at least the second half of the year. 
 ''You've seen a lot of activity in the fourth quarter, and that is a good harbinger for the first half of 2007,'' Mr. Kirshenbaum of Citigroup said.
 There will continue to be a lot of activity in buyouts, emerging markets, and in Japan and the Middle East, he added. 
 New market participants are adding to the trend, helping to smooth the way for hostile deal makers.
 ''Hedge funds have become the kingmakers,'' deciding at what price they will sell out, Mr. MacDonald of Morgan Stanley said. 
 Chief executives can no longer rebuff takeover offers easily, because once one is made, their stock is often snapped up by hedge funds looking for a quick buck. This impact has been keenly felt in Europe, where such investors helped Mittal Steel take over a reluctant Arcelor, and may be pushing the London Stock Exchange into the hands of Nasdaq. 
 That may not be the case in 2007, though. ''The hedge funds have a lot of money, but it is yet unclear that they are getting great returns out of this,'' Mr. Baronoff of Merrill Lynch said. ''If they find other higher return activities, maybe they will focus a little less on activism,'' he said. 
 Yet as Michael Tory, head of British investment banking at Lehman Brothers, said: ''As long as the liquidity is there and the sources of liquidity remain healthy, there is no reason this can't continue.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A chart on the Street Scene page of Business Day last Thursday that listed the leading merger and acquisition advisers misstated the value of the deals in 2006. For Goldman, Sachs, the sector leader, it was $1.088 trillion, not $108.8 trillion. For the industry as a whole, the value of the deals was $3.805 trillion, not $380.5 trillion. A corrected chart can be found at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)Chart:LEADING MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS IN 2006, WORLDWIDE Excluding debtDATE : March 5TARGET: BellSouthACQUIROR: AT&TVALUE, IN BILLIONS: $72.7DATE : Feb. 21TARGET: EndesaACQUIROR: E.OnVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 47.0DATE : Feb. 25TARGET: Gaz de FranceACQUIROR: SuezVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 39.5DATE : Aug. 26TARGET: Sanpaolo IMIACQUIROR: Banca IntesaVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 37.6DATE : Jan. 27TARGET: ArcelorACQUIROR: Mittal SteelVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 32.2DATE : Dec. 18TARGET: Norsk HydroACQUIROR: StatoilVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 30.8DATE : Nov. 7TARGET: America TelecomACQUIROR: America MovilVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 30.5DATE : Nov. 19TARGET: Phelps DodgeACQUIROR: Freeport-McMoRan Copper and GoldVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 25.8DATE : May 7TARGET: Golden West FinancialACQUIROR: WachoviaVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 25.5DATE : Dec. 18TARGET: Caremark RxACQUIROR: Express ScriptsVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 24.9LEADING BUYOUTS, WORLDWIDE Excluding debtDATE: Feb. 8TARGET: BAAACQUIRERS: Grupo Ferrovial
Caisse de Depot et Placement
GIC Special InvestmentsVALUE, IN BILLIONS: $21.8DATE: July 24TARGET: HCAACQUIRERS: Bain Capital
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
Merrill Lynch Global Private EquityVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 21.2DATE: Nov. 16TARGET: Clear Channel CommunicationsACQUIRERS: Bain Capital Partners
Thomas H. Lee PartnersVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 18.7DATE: Nov. 19TARGET: Equity Office PropertiesACQUIRERS: Blackstone GroupVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 18.0DATE: Sep. 15TARGET: Freescale SemiconductorACQUIRERS: Texas Pacific Group
Blackstone
Permira
Carlyle GroupVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 17.7DATE: Oct. 2TARGET: Harrah's EntertainmentACQUIRERS: Apollo Management
Texas PacificVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 17.2DATE: May 29TARGET: Kinder MorganACQUIRERS: GS Capital Partners
AIG
Carlyle
Riverstone HoldingsVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 14.6DATE: June 27TARGET: Univision CommunicationsACQUIRERS: Saban Capital Group
Madison Dearborn Capital
Providence Equity Partners
Texas Pacific
Thomas H. Lee Co.VALUE, IN BILLIONS: 12.1DATE: Jan. 22TARGET: AlbertsonsACQUIRERS: SuperValu
CVS
Cerberus Capital ManagementVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 11.0DATE: Dec. 18TARGET: BiometACQUIRERS: Blackstone
GS Capital Partners
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
 Texas PacificVALUE, IN BILLIONS: 10.8LEADING MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS ADVISERS, WORLDWIDELEADING DEBT, EQUITY AND EQUITY-RELATED UNDERWRITERS, WORLDWIDE(Source by Thomson Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); DIVESTITURES (69%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (61%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Thomson Financial

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (61%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (61%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



73 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Monsanto Profit Climbs 53% in Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Monsanto, the agricultural products company, reported a 53 percent increase in first-quarter profit yesterday on demand for corn seeds and its Roundup herbicide, and forecast 2007 earnings below analysts' estimates. 
 Net income in the three months ended Nov. 30 rose to $90 million, or 16 cents a share, from $59 million, or 11 cents, a year earlier. Monsanto, which is based in St. Louis, said annual profit would be at the high end of its earlier forecast of $1.50 to $1.57 a share, less than the $1.64 a share estimated by analysts. The stock dropped the most it had in five weeks.
''People were expecting a bump in guidance, and that's not happening,'' said Mark Gulley, an analyst at Soleil Securities.
 The highest corn prices in a decade helped the company increase sales of seeds and genetics 35 percent in the latest quarter as American farmers moved to protect crop yields. Total revenue rose 9.5 percent, to $1.54 billion, and Roundup sales gained 18 percent, Monsanto said.
 Shares of Monsanto fell 89 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $50.79 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, for their biggest percentage decline since Nov. 27. 
 The company was expected to earn 10 cents a share in the first quarter, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Net income last year was $1.25, or $1.31 excluding some items.
 Corn prices rose 81 percent in 2006. They reached a 10-year high in November, at $3.935 a bushel on record demand for corn-based ethanol, an alternative fuel. Plantings may rise 9.4 percent next year, to 85.9 million acres, Informa Economics, a commodity research company, said last month.
 Monsanto has enough corn seed to meet demand should United States acreage rise to 85 million acres, the chief executive, Hugh Grant, said in a conference call with analysts and investors.
 Total soybean acres may drop slightly from last year as more corn is planted, Monsanto said. Corn seeds will be $3 an acre more profitable than soybeans in 2007, up from 80 cents last year, because farmers are buying more genetic modifications to protect yields, Monsanto said last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HERBICIDES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (74%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ETHANOL (69%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (68%); ALCOHOLS (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Company Reports ; Agriculture ; Grain; Corn; Sales; Seeds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (92%); MONSANTO AGRICULTURA ESPANA SL (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Monsanto Co

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (92%); SIC0119 CASH GRAINS, NEC (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



74 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: After Struggling, Wall Street Ekes Out Some Small Gains

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street struggled but ultimately closed higher yesterday as a bounce in technology stocks and sharply lower oil prices helped investors brush off concerns about sluggish consumer spending.
 Lackluster holiday sales reports from retailers initially sent major stock indexes significantly lower. Stocks climbed back after a drop in crude prices to below $56 a barrel raised hopes that cheaper gasoline might be on the way.
A broad advance in chip stocks supported the market. Leading the way was Intel, which surged to its highest level in two weeks after Banc of America Securities said it expected fourth-quarter results to come in higher than expected. 
 But the drop in oil prices continued to be the biggest influence on the markets. Oil prices slid for a second day after the government reported that inventories of gasoline, heating oil and diesel fuel rose more than analysts expected during the last week of 2006.
 A barrel of light crude fell $2.73, to $55.59, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, near its low of the session.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.17 points, or 0.05 percent, to 12,480.69, after dropping by about 50 points earlier in the session.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 1.74 points, or 0.12 percent, to 1,418.34, and the tech-dominated Nasdaq composite index added 30.27, or 1.25 percent, to 2,453.43. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 2.53, or 0.32 percent, at 789.95.
 Exxon Mobil was among the biggest decliners in the Dow Jones industrials, falling $1.39, to $72.72. Chevron fell 69 cents, to $70.28, and BP dropped 87 cents, to $65.11.
 But lower gasoline prices were seen as a positive for retailers, many of which had suffered during the holiday season. Some retailers issued profit warnings yesterday, including Gap, which warned that fourth-quarter results would come in below expectations. Its shares rose 13 cents, to $19.44. 
 Target rose 41 cents, to $57.59, despite missing sales estimates. Limited Brands was one of the few decliners in the sector after it reported that lower store traffic caused its same-store sales to miss expectations. Shares fell $2.23, or 7.5 percent, to $27.35.
 Intel rose 82 cents, or 4 percent, to $21.17. Banc of America Securities raised the company's fourth-quarter earnings estimate, saying the chip maker will most likely gain market share. A rival, Advanced Micro Devices, rose 27 cents, to $19.79.
 The market's performance showed that investors remained uneasy about recent economic data, especially after minutes from the Federal Reserve's last meeting, released Wednesday, indicated that policy makers were in no hurry to cut interest rates. Mixed data yesterday included a disappointing report on the service sector.
 ''People are thinking now that energy prices are coming down, and that gives a chance for technology and other sectors to perform better,'' said Scott Fullman, director of investment strategy for Hapoalim Securities USA. ''The broader picture is that the economy continues to show signs of slowing, and that will continue through the first quarter.''
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 14/32, to 100 5/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.60 percent, from 4.66 percent. Yields have moved lower in the last few weeks as it has become apparent that there is no impending interest rate cut from the Fed.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since September, 2006. (Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since September, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (79%); HEATING OIL (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); AMD (NYSE) (51%); AMD (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



75 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 16251 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Jan. 5 - Jan 11

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'THE FEVER' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on Jan. 24. Wallace Shawn stars in his own play about a man who wakes up in a war-torn country feeling under the weather (2:00). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'IN THE HEIGHTS' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on Feb. 8. A new Off Broadway musical about two days in the life of Washington Heights from the vantage point of a corner bodega (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' Previews start tomorrow. Opens on Feb. 4. F. Murray Abraham plays Shylock in this Theater for a New Audience production. Darko Tresnjak directs (2:20). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200.

'THE SCENE' In previews; opens on Thursday. A buzz-maker at the Humana Festival, Theresa Rebeck's new play is about an out-of-work actor who doesn't solve his problems by having an affair. Tony Shalhoub (''Monk'') and Patricia Heaton (''Everybody Loves Raymond'') star (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.

'A SPANISH PLAY' Previews start on Wednesday. Opens on Feb. 1. Zoe Caldwell leads an extraordinary cast (Linda Emond, Denis O'Hare, Larry Pine, Katherine Borowitz) in Yasmina Reza's new backstage play, in which real life and fiction blur (1:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'TRANSLATIONS' In previews; opens on Jan. 25. Brian Friel's drama about a British officer in 19th-century rural Ireland deals with themes of language, imperialism and culture clash. Garry Hynes directs (1:55). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'THE APPLE TREE' The amazing Kristin Chenoweth gives Imax-screen-size life to three curvaceous doodles who by rights shouldn't be any larger than figures in the Sunday funnies. Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's 1966 musical, directed by Gary Griffin, shows its age but is given theatrical verve by Ms. Chenoweth, Brian d'Arcy James and Marc Kudisch (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley)

'BUTLEY' In this uneasy revival of Simon Gray's portrait of a toxic English professor, directed by Nicholas Martin, Nathan Lane fires off witticisms as if they were silver bullets with ''Made in Britain'' engraved on them. A less-than-perfect marriage of a first-rate actor with a first-rate play (2:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA: VOYAGE' The exhilarating first two installments of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about 19th-century Russian intellectuals dreaming of revolution, these productions pulse with the dizzy, spring-green arrogance and anxiety of a new generation moving as fast as it can toward the future. Jack O'Brien directs a fresh, vigorous and immense cast that includes Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Billy Crudup and Ethan Hawke (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920s stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' The comedy of manners, a form widely believed to be extinct in the American theater, has actually resurfaced on Broadway with all its vital signs intact in Douglas Carter Beane's breezy but trenchant satire about truth and illusion, Hollywood style. With the wonderful Julie White as the movie agent you hate to love (but just can't help it) (2:00). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance. With his irresistibly mannered performance as a laconic doctor, Mr. Nighy mops the floor with Ms. Moore. Actually, he mops the floor with Mr. Hare's play (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore)

*'THE CLEAN HOUSE' Sarah Ruhl's comedy about the painful but beautiful disorder of life has arrived in New York at last in a gorgeous production directed by Bill Rauch. Blair Brown and Jill Clayburgh delight as sisters with different views on the meaning of cleaning, and Vanessa Aspillaga is equally good as the depressed maid with little affection for her work but a deep conviction that a good joke can be a matter of life and death (2:15). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'DAI (ENOUGH)' Iris Bahr's unnerving one-woman show doesn't have much to add to the Middle East debate, but it sure leaves a lasting impression. Ms. Bahr plays an assortment of characters who have the misfortune of being in a Tel Aviv cafe that is about to be visited by the havoc common to such establishments. The attack is rendered in jarring fashion, repeatedly; you watch the play on pins and needles, waiting for the next burst. Gimmicky? Sure. But viscerally effective (1:40). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 253-9983. (Neil Genzlinger)

'EVIL DEAD: THE MUSICAL' This likable horror comedy based on Sam Raimi's gory movies wants to be the next ''Rocky Horror Show.'' To that end, it offers deadpan lyrics, self-referential humor and geysers of stage blood (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Anita Gates)

'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men and two women perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Gates)

'MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS' This musical is too big for its stage, but the young turn-of-the-last-century sweethearts have great chemistry, and there are four terrific songs (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Gates)

'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'AN OAK TREE' Tim Crouch plays a hypnotist in this elusive puzzle of a play about grief and the power of suggestion (1:05). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)

'REGRETS ONLY' Old acquaintance comes under siege in Paul Rudnick's chiffon-thin comedy about the varieties of love and marriage. But no one who sees this latest offering from one of the funniest quipmeisters alive is going to doubt that Christine Baranski is a one-liner's best friend (2:00). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this comedy from the 1930s, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Genzlinger)

'SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER' As the luscious (and lobotomy-threatened) damsel in distress in Tennessee Williams's famously lurid melodrama, Carla Gugino gives a gutsy assurance to a production that otherwise lacks compelling confidence. Mark Brokaw directs a cast that includes Blythe Danner, in a fascinating but misconceived performance as a smothering mother from hell (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban)

'TWO TRAINS RUNNING' Directed by Lou Bellamy, a rough-edged revival of August Wilson's 1992 play about the stark economics of life and death for African-Americans, set in a dying diner in Pittsburgh in the late 1960s. The pace drags in this production, but it remains a bracing reminder of Mr. Wilson's singular talent for making cold, hard numbers sing hot, molten blues (3:40). Signature Theater at Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

* 'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny. (1:00) Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

Long-Running Shows

'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin stir up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'BECOMING ADELE' Eric Houston's one-woman show about a young Brooklyn waitress's journey to self-actualization imagines a New York where fairy tales are possible even for the very ordinary. The sentiment is heavy and thick, but Kimberly Stern's performance burrows through it to deliver moving moments (1:40). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closing tomorrow. (Ginia Bellafante)

'BIG APPLE CIRCUS' One terrific show (2:15). Damrosch Park, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500 or (212) 307-4100; closing on Sunday. (Van Gelder)

'MARTIN SHORT: FAME BECOMES ME' This eager and amiably scattershot satire of celebrity memoirs and Broadway musicals, starring the immodestly modest Mr. Short, arrives a little late to the table for such parody to taste fresh. With serviceably tuneful songs by Scott Wittman and Marc Shaiman (of ''Hairspray'' fame) (1:45). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200; closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

'STRINGS' Keir Dullea stars in Carole Bugge's intelligent but ultimately unsuccessful ''Copenhagen''-inspired drama about three scientists on a train (1:45). 78th Street Theater Lab, 236 West 78th Street, (212) 362-0329; closing tomorrow. (Gates)

'TRUE WEST' This perfectly pleasant new version of Sam Shepard's sibling rivalry drama tries something new: understatement (1:35). Big Little Theater, 141 Ridge Street, near Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 868-4444; closes tonight. (Zinoman)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'APOCALYPTO' (R, 138 minutes, in Maya) More blood from Mel Gibson, but more ''Braveheart'' than ''Passion of the Christ.'' Ultraviolent entertainment, well executed (so to speak) but not very surprising in the end. (A. O. Scott)

'BABEL' (R, 143 minutes, in English, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, Arabic and sign language) This hugely ambitious movie tells four loosely linked, not quite simultaneous stories set on three different continents, with dialogue in several languages. The themes, to the extent they are decipherable, include loss, fate and the terrible consequences of miscommunication. Written by Guillermo Arriaga and directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, the movie is an intellectual muddle but a visceral tour de force, and the power of the filmmaking almost overcomes the fuzziness of the ideas. Almost. (Scott)

'BLACK CHRISTMAS' (R, 100 minutes) It's been more than 30 years since the original ''Black Christmas'' revealed how much fun it could be to unleash a psycho in a sorority house. Glen Morgan's disastrous remake not only sidelines the original's hilariously obscene phone calls but also drags its unseen killer, and his psychoses, into the light. Smothering terror beneath a blanket of unnecessary information, the movie is no more than a dismal Christmas card to its predecessor. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'BLOOD DIAMOND' (R, 138 minutes) The makers of this foolish thriller about illegal diamond trafficking in Africa, starring an excellent Leonardo DiCaprio, want you to know there may be blood on your hands, specifically your wedding finger. Too bad they haven't thought through what it means to turn human misery into entertainment. (Manohla Dargis)

'BOBBY' (R, 111 minutes) Emilio Estevez's picture, which follows a score of characters through the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles on June 4, 1968, is full of noble ambition. The day in question ended with the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy, an event that hovers over the movie, even though Kennedy himself is visible only in archival clips. A huge cast (including Anthony Hopkins, Sharon Stone, Demi Moore, Ashton Kutcher, Lindsay Lohan and Mr. Estevez) labors to inject a collection of melodramatic anecdotes with portent and significance, but the individual parts of the film tend to be either overdone or vague and slight. (Scott)

* 'BORAT: CULTURAL LEARNINGS OF AMERICA FOR MAKE BENEFIT GLORIOUS NATION OF KAZAKHSTAN' (R, 89 minutes) In this brainy, merciless comedy, a Kazakh journalist named Borat Sagdiyev, a k a the British comic Sacha Baron Cohen, invades America. America laughs, cries, surrenders. (Dargis)

'CASINO ROYALE' (PG-13, 144 minutes) The latest James Bond vehicle finds the British spy leaner, meaner and now played by an attractive piece of blond rough named Daniel Craig. Zap, pow, ka-ching! (Dargis)

'CHARLOTTE'S WEB' (G, 113 minutes) Gary Winick's adaptation of E. B. White's great children's novel is faithful to the wit and feeling of the source. The celebrity-voiced animals are charming, and Julia Roberts is in fine form as the heroic spider, whose writing ability saves the life of a pig. (Scott)

* 'CHILDREN OF MEN' (R, 100 minutes) The end is nigh in this superbly directed political thriller by Alfonso Cuaron about a nervously plausible future. Based on the P. D. James book, the film stars an excellent Clive Owen and features equally sterling support from the actors Michael Caine, Danny Huston and Chiwetel Ejiofior, among others, as well as the great cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki. (Dargis)

'COPYING BEETHOVEN' (PG-13, 104 minutes) The director Agnieszka Holland and her star Ed Harris bring intelligence and passion to a fictional account about the creation of the Ninth Symphony. Diane Kruger also stars. (Dargis)

'CURSE OF THE GOLDEN FLOWER' (R, 114 minutes, in Mandarin) The Chinese director Zhang Yimou aims for Shakespeare and winds up with Jacqueline Susann in this Tang dynasty melodrama roiling with incest, fraternal rivalry and madness-inducing fungus. As an emperor and empress fighting for control of their three sons, Chow Yun Fat and Gong Li lend the film a core of marital toxicity that's deliciously unstable. Directing with operatic delirium, Mr. Zhang has created a movie in which the line between tragedy and black comedy has been all but erased. (Catsoulis)

'THE DEAD GIRL' (R, 93 minutes) An impressively well-acted movie, ''The Dead Girl'' has a chip on its shoulder. The relentless emotional violence in it, a compendium of five vignettes related to a young woman whose naked, mutilated corpse is discovered on a barren hillside, is of a level rarely found in movies, even those steeped in gore. There is some gore in ''The Dead Girl,'' but it is eclipsed in intensity by the verbal abuse hurled by its desperately unhappy characters at the people closest to them. (Stephen Holden)

'DEATH OF A PRESIDENT' (No rating, 93 minutes) This fake-umentary, the subject of much hyperventilation since it was shown at the 2006 Toronto Film Festival, imagines what might happen if George W. Bush were assassinated. Condemned as irresponsible wishful thinking by some, hailed as a brave artistic statement by others, the movie, directed by Gabriel Range, is far too banal to merit such strong responses. Its formal cleverness wears thin and after a while exposes a lazy, pretentious form of provocation. (Scott)

'DECK THE HALLS' (PG, 95 minutes) In the holiday tradition of stale fruitcake, ugly snowflake sweaters and food poisoning comes this piece of junk, in which Matthew Broderick and Danny DeVito compete to see who can annoy the audience more. (Scott)

'DEJA VU' (PG-13, 125 minutes) In Tony Scott's preposterous action flick, with Denzel Washington, the gaudy pyrotechnics are nowhere near as jaw-dropping as the screenplay that name-checks not one, not two, but three national tragedies. (Dargis)

* 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Dargis)

'DHOOM 2' (No rating, 151 minutes, in Hindi) A slick and satisfying example of the new, thoroughly modern Bollywood, this cops-and-robbers tale is animated by old-fashioned star power. Hrithik Roshan plays the ''smartest and coolest thief alive,'' and Aishwarya Rai is the small-time crook who loves him. (Rachel Saltz)

'ERAGON' (PG, 99 minutes) This lad-and-his-dragon fantasy set in a land bristling with Tolkienesque nomenclature and earnest British actors is as lacking in fresh ideas as Tim Allen's manager. Directed by the wonderfully named Stefen Fangmeier, it boasts the usual genre lineup: an evil king (John Malkovich), a whey-faced hero (Edward Speleers) and a serene warrior-maiden (Sienna Guillory), as well as the required rebel hordes and bucolic landscapes. Some of the characters won't be returning for the sequel, but no matter. In all likelihood, neither will the audience. (Catsoulis)

* '51 BIRCH STREET' (No rating, 88 minutes) The mysteries of ordinary life drive this moving, engrossing documentary, in which the director, Doug Block, tries to figure out his parents' 54-year marriage. (Scott)

* 'FLAGS OF OUR FATHERS' (R, 132 minutes) Clint Eastwood raises the flag over Iwo Jima once more in a powerful if imperfect film about the uses of war and of the men who fight. The fine cast includes Ryan Phillippe, Jesse Bradford and Adam Beach, who delivers heartbreak by the payload. (Dargis)

'FLANNEL PAJAMAS' (No rating, 124 minutes) The twin specters of Ingmar Bergman and Woody Allen hover over this film, which might have been more accurately titled ''Scenes From a Mixed Marriage'' or ''Annie Hall Without Laughs.'' This smart, talky history of a relationship between two New Yorkers follows a Jewish theatrical promoter and an aspiring caterer with a Roman Catholic background from courtship to marriage to separation. (Holden)

* 'FLUSHED AWAY' (PG, 85 minutes) Sewer rats, singing leeches and whimsical British anarchy -- this computer-animated feature from Aardman Animations (''Wallace and Gromit,'' ''Chicken Run'') is completely delightful. (Scott)

'FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION' (PG-13, 86 minutes) This satire of pre-Oscar-nomination buzz in Hollywood is far and away the broadest comedy Christopher Guest and his improvisatory company have made. It is also the flimsiest, and unlike Mr. Guest's earlier films, it has no airs of being a fake documentary. As farce trumps satire, the humor's subversive edge is lost, along with meaningful character development, with the brilliant exception of Catherine O'Hara. (Holden)

'THE GOOD SHEPHERD' (R, 157 minutes) This chilly film written by Eric Roth and directed by Robert De Niro about a spy trapped in the cold of his own heart, seeks to put a tragic human face on the Central Intelligence Agency, namely that of Matt Damon. (Dargis)

'THE GOOD GERMAN' (R, 102 minutes) In his adaptation of the Joseph Kanon novel, Steven Soderbergh tries to resurrect the magic of classical Hollywood, principally by sucking out all the air, energy and pleasure from his own filmmaking. It's no wonder George Clooney, who stars alongside a vamping Cate Blanchett, looks confused. (Dargis)

'HAPPY FEET' (PG, 100 minutes) The director George Miller gets happy and snappy, then goes dark and deep, in a musical about an animated penguin who was born to dance. Take hankies. (Dargis)

'THE HISTORY BOYS' (R, 104 minutes) The current of intellectual energy snapping through this ferociously engaging screen adaptation of Alan Bennett's Tony Award-winning play, set in a north England boys' school in 1983, feels like electrical brain stimulation. As two teachers jockey for the hearts and minds of eight teenage schoolboys preparing to apply to Oxford and Cambridge, their epigrams send up small jolts of pleasure and excitement. How to teach and interpret history is the question. (Holden)

'I LOVE YOU (VOLIM TE)' (No rating, 83 minutes, in Croatian) In this bleak drama about a young advertising hotshot who learns that he's H.I.V.-positive, the Croatian writer and director Dalibor Matanic conjures a disaffected, post-Communist lifestyle of casual hedonism and emotional bankruptcy. The premise may be trite -- personal growth through unexpected adversity -- but in its pervasive atmosphere of haunting sterility, the movie is as much about the loss of a generation as the redemption of an individual. (Catsoulis)

* 'INLAND EMPIRE' (No rating, 179 minutes) David Lynch's extraordinary, savagely uncompromised new film stars a dazzling Laura Dern as an actress who tumbles down rabbit holes inside rabbit holes inside rabbit holes. As cracked as Mad magazine, though generally more difficult to parse, the film has the power of nightmares and is one of the few this year that deserve to be called art. (Dargis)

'THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND' (R, 121 minutes) Kevin Macdonald paints a queasily enjoyable portrait of the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin from inside the palace walls. Forest Whitaker plays the mad king, while James McAvoy plays the fool. (Dargis)

* 'LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA' (R, 141 minutes, in Japanese) Another masterwork from Clint Eastwood's astonishing late period, and one of the best war movies ever. Ken Watanabe is especially fine as the general commanding Japanese troops in the doomed defense of the island of Iwo Jima. (Scott)

* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott)

'MAN OF THE YEAR' (PG-13, 115 minutes) Robin Williams plays a comedian and talk show host who plunges into the presidential campaign, telling truths the timid politicians dare not utter. Not really. This would-be satire, written and directed by Barry Levinson, is hectic and tired, with too many plots and too few sharp insights. (Scott)

* 'MARIE ANTOINETTE' (PG-13, 123 minutes) In this elaborate, bittersweet confection, Sofia Coppola imagines the last pre-revolutionary queen of France (played with wit and charm by Kirsten Dunst) as a bored, pleasure-seeking teenager trapped in a world of artifice and rigid protocol. Dreamy and decadent, the film is also touching, funny and bracingly modern. (Scott)

'NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM' (PG, 108 minutes) In this chaotic, overstuffed family comedy, Ben Stiller is a night watchman at the American Museum of Natural History, where the exhibits come to life at night and attack him and one another. This computerized spectacle spares no expense, but the storytelling is weak, and the hit-or-miss jokes miss more than hit. (Holden)

'NOTES ON A SCANDAL' (R, 92 minutes) Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett play a misogynistic game of cat and mouse from which no one emerges unscathed, including the audience. Adapted by Patrick Marber from a novel by Zoe Heller and directed by Richard Eyre. (Dargis)

* 'PAN'S LABYRINTH' (R, 119 minutes, in Spanish) Guillermo del Toro's tale of a young girl's ordeal in post-Civil War fascist Spain is either a fairy tale in the guise of a political allegory or vice versa. In either case it is a moving, enchanting, strange and humane example of popular art at its very best. (Scott)

'THE PAINTED VEIL' (PG-13, 125 minutes) Nicely directed by John Curran, this version of the W. Somerset Maugham novel draws you in by turning a distaff bildungsroman into a fine romance with Naomi Watts and Edward Norton. (Dargis)

'PERFUME: THE STORY OF A MURDERER' (R, 147 minutes) There's no other way to say it: Tom Tykwer's excruciatingly literal-minded adaptation of the best-selling novel about an 18th-century serial killer with an acute sense of smell is a real stinker. (Scott)

'THE PURSUIT OF HAPPYNESS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) How you respond to this fairy tale in realist drag may depend on whether you find Will Smith's performances so overwhelmingly winning that you buy the idea that poverty is a function of bad luck and bad choices, and success the result of heroic toil and dreams. (Dargis)

* 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis)

'ROCKY BALBOA' (PG, 102 minutes) Surprisingly, the sixth installment of this franchise is no embarrassment. Like its forerunners, it goes the distance almost in spite of itself. It's all heart and no credibility, except as a raw-boned fable. From the very beginning, Rocky Balboa was about as lifelike a character as Popeye pumped up with spinach. But that may be the point of a series that peddles the notion that if you dream it hard enough, you can live it. (Holden)

'THE TIGER AND THE SNOW' (No rating, 115 minutes, in Arabic, English and Italian) War may be hell, but for Roberto Benigni it's just another romantic comedy waiting to be filmed. This time that gnomic Italian superstar is a poetry professor who must pose as a Red Cross surgeon to rescue his beloved from a Baghdad hospital. But this contrived setup is merely an excuse for Mr. Benigni to climb onto a camel, blunder into a minefield and confront the American military; to Mr. Benigni, war is simply another stage for his outlandish ego. (Catsoulis)

'UNACCOMPANIED MINORS' (PG, 89 minutes) The title doubles as an advisory. Your kids may like it; pick them up when it's over. (Scott)

'VENUS' (R, 91 minutes) A modest, diverting, touching tale of a young woman who attracts the interest -- avuncular and also erotic -- of an aging actor, played with effortless aplomb by the great Peter O'Toole. (Scott)

* 'VOLVER' (R, 121 minutes, in Spanish) Another keeper from Pedro Almodovar, with Penelope Cruz -- as a resilient widow -- in her best role to date. (Scott)

'WE ARE MARSHALL' (PG, 128 minutes) This fact-based story of a West Virginia college town recovering from the death of its entire football team in a 1970 plane crash is a stiff, manipulative dud that gets wrong everything ''Friday Night Lights'' got right. Matthew McConaughey hams it up as the college's goofy new coach, who whips the replacement team into decent shape. (Holden)

Film Series

AN ARTIST AND A GAMBLER: ROBERT ALTMAN REMEMBERED (Today, and Sunday through Thursday) IFC Center's tribute to Altman, the iconoclastic filmmaker who died in November at 81, begins today. This weekend's features are ''M*A*S*H'' (1970), the original antiwar comedy, and ''Short Cuts'' (1993), Altman's ensemble drama about life in Los Angeles. The other more than two dozen features in the retrospective will include ''McCabe & Mrs. Miller'' (1971), ''The Player'' (1992), ''Nashville'' (1975) and ''That Cold Day in the Park'' (1969). (Through Jan. 23.) At 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, movietickets.com; $10.75. (Anita Gates)

CRITICS CHOICE: GREAT DOCUMENTARIES (Tomorrow and Sunday) The Museum of the Moving Image is sponsoring its eighth annual New York Film Critics Circle series, beginning tomorrow. This weekend's features, chosen by member critics, are ''In the Year of the Pig'' (1968-69), a critique of the Vietnam War, introduced by David Fear; the newly excavated ''Winter Soldier'' (1972), introduced by Michael Atkinson; Frederick Wiseman's ''Hospital'' (1970), introduced by Peter Rainer; and Terry Zwigoff's ''Crumb'' (1994), about the underground comics artist R. Crumb, introduced by John Anderson. (Through Feb. 28.) At 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $10. (Gates)

ESSENTIALLY WOODY (Today through Thursday) Film Forum's 28-film retrospective of Woody Allen's work continues this weekend with three films. ''Manhattan'' (1979), Mr. Allen's love letter to the city, Gershwin and teenage girls, plays today and tomorrow. ''Take the Money and Run'' (1969), in which an inept bank robber has trouble spelling ''gun,'' and the comic redubbing experiment ''What's Up, Tiger Lily?'' (1966) are the double feature for Sunday and Monday. At 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $10. (Gates)

NEW YORK JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL (Wednesday and Thursday) This 16th annual event is sponsored by the Jewish Museum and the Film Society of Lincoln Center. It begins on Wednesday with a program that includes two United States premieres of full-length features: Christian Delage's ''Nuremberg: The Nazis Facing Their Crimes'' (2005), a French documentary narrated by Christopher Plummer; and ''My Mexican Shivah''(2006), Alejandro Springall's comedy about a patriarch's death. (Through Jan. 25.) Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, thejewishmuseum.org or filmlinc.com; $10. (Gates)

FRANZ WAXMAN: MUSIC FOR THE CINEMA (Today through Monday, and Wednesday and Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art is honoring Waxman (1906-67), the German composer, with a 21-film retrospective. This weekend's films include ''The Spirit of St. Louis'' (1957), starring Jimmy Stewart as the aviator Charles Lindbergh; ''Objective Burma!'' (1945), a World War II adventure with Errol Flynn; and the classic ''Sunset Blvd.'' (1950), for which Waxman won his second Oscar. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

BRYAN ADAMS (Thursday) In the 1980s this Canadian rocker became an MTV regular by expertly playing an inoffensive rebel: he wore a leather jacket and kept his square jaw in a scowl, but sang chrome-plated guitar anthems that never hid their sentimentality. In time the sentimentality overtook the guitar-rock, as in the 1991 megahit ''(Everything I Do) I Do It for You,'' but that never hurt anyone's popularity. Here Mr. Adams plays a rare concert in New York. At 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070 or (212) 307-7171; sold out. (Ben Sisario)

BABY DAYLINER (Tonight) Ethan Marunas, the pale, sometimes pompadoured crooner who performs as Baby Dayliner, is a throwback to a few different strains of '80s pop: murmuring about being a ''star without a movie'' over brittle electronic beats, he joins the blue-eyed soul of Joe Jackson, the fragility of Morrissey and the arty synth-disco of New Order and Human League. With the Pierces and Five O'Clock Heroes. At 9:30, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario)

BILAL (Thursday) Bilal has huge ambitions, spanning jazz and soul, funk and gospel, hip-hop and pop. Even when his material doesn't live up to those ambitions, he has musicality to spare. At 9 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $26 in advance, $28 at the door. (Jon Pareles)

* BLACK DICE, SIGHTINGS, EXCEPTER (Tomorrow) Noise, noise, glorious New York noise. Black Dice, from Brooklyn, is a big player in the international avant-rock scene, and has remained vital by staying truly experimental: whether playing spacey, hokey psychedelia or alien-invasion squalls of feedback, the band throws itself deeply into its every unpredictable turn. Sightings sticks to guitars and drums for its nightmarish din, and Excepter's songs, with gurgling, irregular electronic blips, evoke the aimless flailings of a damaged robot. At 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sisario)

JAMES COTTON (Thursday) Playing in Muddy Waters's bands in the 1950s, James Cotton helped define modern blues harmonica with his moaning, wrenching phrases and his train-whistle wails. Recent albums with the younger players who studied him prove that he can still rip into a blues. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $25 in advance, $29 at the door. (Pareles)

FIERY FURNACES (Tonight) In a smart scramble of eras and attitudes, the Fiery Furnaces back flippantly surreal lyrics with blues riffs, teetering analog synthesizers, parlor piano and punky noise, coming up with a 21st-century urban skiffle. With Emergency Party, and Michael Mayham and the Mike. At 9, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $15. (Pareles)

TIM FITE, O'DEATH (Tomorrow) Tim Fite's songs about ''kicking every can in New York City'' are booby-trapped with quick changes from clean country-pop to corrosive punk. O'Death draws from the starkness and spiritual purity of Appalachian folk, the menace of punk and the rowdy theatricality of Tom Waits, jumbling sacred and profane. At 8 p.m., Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $10. (Sisario)

PAUL GREEN SCHOOL OF ROCK MUSIC (Tomorrow and Sunday) As seen in the documentary ''Rock School,'' Mr. Green offers an extensive curriculum at his Philadelphia school, teaching youngsters the rock 'n' roll canon, as well as the fundamentals of power chords and budda-budda bass lines. Here his students offer ''The Folk Show.'' At 2:30 p.m., Rebel, 251 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 695-2747, rebelnyc.com; $10. (Sisario)

EMILY HAINES AND THE SOFT SKELETON (Tuesday) In her regular band, Metric, Ms. Haines plays a kind of dance-floor defector, singing moodily over bouncy electronic beats and sharp new-wave guitars. On her own, this Canandian songwriter is as far away from the disco ball as she could be, with dark and rich piano ballads about looking for a cure for the ''lonesome lows.'' For her tour, the Canadian neo-surrealist filmmaker Guy Maddin has put together montages of his work set to her songs. With the Tall Firs. At 7 p.m., Hiro Ballroom, 371 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-0212, bowerypresents.com; $19.50 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sisario)

* 'HIGH SCHOOL MUSICAL: THE CONCERT' (Monday) Cynical parents might compare it to the Monkees. But what in the world could be wrong with ''I'm a Believer''? Or, for that matter, with ''Breaking Free,'' the PG-rated climax from ''High School Musical,'' the Disney Channel phenomenon whose soundtrack was the best-selling album of 2006? Performing the songs from this tween ''Grease,'' to the accompaniment of thousands of squeals, will be the cast of the movie, or at least most of it: Zac Efron, who played the heartthrob, Troy, is replaced here by Drew Seeley, who supplied many of Troy's vocals on the soundtrack. At 7 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $36.50 to $56.50. (Sisario)

IZZYS (Tomorrow) With a repertory of lean, uncomplicated blues-boogies, this New York band worships at the twin retro-rock altars of the Rolling Stones and the Stooges (with maybe a little Gram Parsons country thrown in as well). At 11 p.m., Lakeside Lounge, 162 Avenue B, between 10th and 11th Streets, East Village, (212) 529-8463, lakesidelounge.com; free. (Sisario)

DAYNA KURTZ (Tuesday and Wednesday) That's not weariness in the plain alto of Dayna Kurtz, a singer-songwriter from Brooklyn skilled at conveying the sting of heartbreak. It's vulnerability, which means that no matter how many times a relationship collapses, she is still hopeful when asking her lover to kiss her ''like a stranger.'' With Kris Delmhorst. At 8 p.m., Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $12. (Sisario)

LYRICS AND LYRICISTS (Tomorrow through Monday) The 37th season of the 92nd Street Y's American Songbook series begins with a tribute to Rosemary Clooney that focuses on the writers behind her repertory, including William Saroyan (the co-writer of ''Come On-a My House''), Tom Adair and Billie Holiday. The artistic director and host is Deborah Grace Winer, and the players include James Naughton, John Pizzarelli, Paul West and Karen Ziemba; Debby Boone, Ms. Clooney's daughter-in-law, will appear on Sunday and Monday. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 8 p.m., and Monday at 2 and 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $50 and $60. (Sisario)

* MAN MAN (Tonight) Man Man, from Philadelphia, follows the expressive gutter cabaret of Tom Waits into a kinetic chaos that has more than a little Captain Beefheart in it. With Mixel Pixel and Plastic Little. At 9, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $14. (Sisario)

MOUTHUS (Tonight) A fearsome and unpredictable noise-rock duo from Brooklyn, Mouthus delves into guttural depths of vocals and guitar, seldom completing a show without repeatedly knocking over some large instrument or fixture. With Axolotl, Wiseblood, Watersports and Max Cloud. At 9, Silent Barn, 15 Wyckoff Avenue, at Hancock Street, Bushwick, Brooklyn, toddpnyc.com; $7. (Sisario)

ANDERS PARKER, JENNIFER O'CONNOR (Wednesday) Mr. Parker, who led the band Varnaline, immerses his songs in the stoic drama of country and folk music, resulting in a melancholy that is sometimes indistinguishable from cynicism. (''The hours I've wasted here I could have wasted anywhere.'') He begins a four-week Wednesday residency at the Living Room. Ms. O'Connor's portraits of the lovelorn are dry but not unsympathetic: ''Maybe she's on her lunch break thinking of you.'' At 9 p.m., 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235, livingroomny.com; $8. (Sisario)

RON SEXSMITH (Tuesday) Ron Sexsmith seems self-effacing and hesitant at first, with a voice that sidles up to notes like a wallflower trying to slip into a party unnoticed. But behind the outward modesty is a craftsman who stubborn upholds the verities of 1960s songwriting, placing supple melodies atop unexpected harmonies and offering wistful regret and consolation in equal parts. With Kim Taylor. At 8:30 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $12. (Pareles)

SONIC BOOM (Monday and Tuesday) In the 1980s, Peter Kember, a k a Sonic Boom, was a member of Spacemen 3, an influential British band that found a twilight zone somewhere between jangly garage-rock and the druggy, pulsating minimalism of the Velvet Underground. Later, with Experimental Audio Research, he explored ever purer forms of drone. Here Mr. Kember acts as autobiographical D.J., spinning records that inspired him ''from the '30s through the '90s.'' At 10 p.m., Club Midway, 25 Avenue B, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 253-2595, clubmidway.com; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sisario)

SOUTHSIDE JOHNNY AND THE ASBURY JUKES (Tonight and tomorrow night) While his friend Bruce Springsteen left the Jersey Shore behind and went on to write all-American anthems and parables, Southside Johnny Lyon stuck to the old bar-band basics: rolling R & B vamps and raspy-voiced, good-natured soul plaints, complete with horn section. At 8, B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $35. (Pareles)

WAR (Tuesday) Only one original member, the keyboardist Lonnie Jordan, remains in this pioneering Latin-funk band, which in the 1970s did nearly as much as Santana to integrate Latin percussion and rock 'n' roll. The other four surviving players are in another touring group, the Lowrider Band. What separates them is a lawsuit. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $30 in advance, $32 at the door. (Sisario)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

CARL ALLEN AND NEW SPIRIT (Tonight and tomorrow night) The propulsive drummer Carl Allen leads a hard-bop ensemble seasoned with gospel harmonies and stocked with heavy hitters: Vincent Herring on alto saxophone, Christian McBride on bass and Aaron Goldberg on piano. At 8, 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)

* HAN BENNINK AND FRIENDS (Tuesday and Wednesday) Mr. Bennink plays the drums with the unrestrained glee of a 4-year-old, but his antics do nothing to hinder his uplifting sense of swing. Here this Dutch master collaborates with a cadre of American modernists, like the trumpeter Dave Douglas, the pianist Anthony Coleman, the tenor saxophonist Ellery Eskelin and the tuba player Marcus Rojas. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $15; $12 in advance. (Chinen)

* TERENCE BLANCHARD (Thursday) As a trumpeter and composer, Mr. Blanchard favors a sleek post-bop sound informed by myriad contemporary sources. His excellent working band -- with the saxophonist Brice Winston, the pianist Aaron Parks, the bassist Derrick Hodge and the drummer Kendrick Scott -- will play a range of original music, including Mr. Blanchard's haunting soundtrack to the Spike Lee documentary ''When the Levees Broke.'' At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JANE IRA BLOOM (Tomorrow) Elaborating on material from her latest album, ''Like Silver, Like Song'' (ArtistShare), Ms. Bloom plays soprano saxophone and electronics in a solid working band with Dawn Clement on keyboards, Mark Helias on bass and Matt Wilson on drums. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $15. (Chinen)

CECIL BRIDGEWATER (Tomorrow) Mr. Bridgewater, an accomplished trumpeter, balances lyricism and aggression in a trio with the bassist Kenny Davis and the drummer Alvin Atkinson. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Sistas' Place, 456 Nostrand Avenue, at Jefferson Avenue, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, (718) 398-1766, sistasplace.org; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Chinen)

BROOKLYN JAZZ UNDERGROUND (Thursday) The Brooklyn Jazz Underground is a coalition of artists united by aesthetics as well as geography; its launch party, so to speak, spans four nights at Smalls next week. Opening night will include bands led by the pianist Benny Lackner, the trumpeter Shane Endsley and the violinist and violist Tanya Kalmanovitch. (Through Jan. 14.) At 8:30, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, brooklynjazz.org; cover, $10. (Chinen)

STEVE COLEMAN AND FIVE ELEMENTS (Sunday and Thursday) Mr. Coleman's alto saxophone cuts cleanly through the angular free-funk of his signature ensemble, which includes the trumpeter Jonathan Finlayson, the trombonist Tim Albright, the vocalist Jen Shyu, the bassist Thomas Morgan and the drummer Tyshawn Sorey. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

THE CRUSADERS (Tuesday through Thursday) This crossover soul-jazz outfit, led by the keyboardist Joe Sample, has gone through multiple revisions since its heyday in the 1970s. Here the lineup features one other founding member, the saxophonist Wilton Felder, and includes Nils Landgren on trombone; Ray Parker Jr. on guitar; Nicklas Sample, Joe Sample's son, on bass; and Steve Gadd on drums. (Through Jan. 14.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $45 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

LUCIEN DUBUIS TRIO WITH MARC RIBOT (Tomorrow) The Swiss-born alto saxophonist and clarinetist Lucien Dubuis aims for the ragged thrust of a punk band with his trio, which features Roman Nowka on bass and Lionel Friedli on drums. Mr. Ribot, as a guest guitarist, brings raw energy as well as seasoned artistry. At 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $12. (Chinen)

DOMINIQUE EADE AND RACHEL CASWELL (Wednesday) Ms. Eade weighs a chanteuse's coolness against a jazz musician's exploratory instinct, as she will demonstrate in dialogue with the guitarist Brad Shepik and the bassist Ben Street. Ms. Caswell, who hails from a similar school of jazz singing, will seek to hold her own. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* FLY (Tuesday through Thursday) The tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, the bassist Larry Grenadier and the drummer Jeff Ballard make up this superb trio, which eschews the usual horn-plus-rhythm hierarchy in the service of an elastic group ideal. (Through Jan. 14.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JAZZ TRIBUTE TO FRANK SINATRA (Tonight and tomorrow night) A few good things promise to lift this salute above the humdrum, like the veteran trombonist Eddie Bert, the versatile guitarist Howard Alden and the precocious tenor saxophonist Tommy Morimoto. At 9 and 11, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

* NANCY KING (Wednesday) Ms. King is a musician's singer, and until recently her reputation barely extended beyond a circle of insiders. Since the release of ''Live at Jazz Standard'' (Max Jazz) last year, she has been more widely celebrated; she returns to that setting next week with a backing trio led by the pianist Geoffrey Keezer. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Chinen)

LOGN (Monday) This upstart Danish quartet practices a sort of exuberant avant-gardism derived partly from the downtown scene; its members are the multireedist Jacob Danielsen, the guitarist Kasper Bai, the pianist Kasper Bjerg and the drummer Soren Mehlsen. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

MIYA MASAOKA, SYLVIE COURVOISIER AND OKKYUNG LEE (Monday) Ms. Masaoka extracts a boldly textural sound from the koto, a Japanese zither; Ms. Lee and Ms. Courvoisier do much the same on their Western instruments, a cello and a piano. At 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* JASON MORAN AND THE BANDWAGON (Wednesday and Thursday) Jason Moran is a bright pianist who favors jagged and delirious polyphony; his uncommonly cohesive group, the Bandwagon, features the earthy yet slippery rhythm section of Tarus Mateen, bassist, and Nasheet Waits, drummer. (Through Jan. 13.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum at tables. (Chinen)

MOUTIN REUNION QUARTET (Thursday) The brothers Francois and Louis Moutin, a bassist and a drummer, lead this dynamic trans-Atlantic post-bop ensemble; the other half consists of the tenor saxophonist Rick Margitza and the pianist Pierre de Bethmann. At 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

LEWIS NASH QUINTET (Tuesday through Thursday) An engaging and subtle drummer who brings a crisp swing to any setting, Lewis Nash leads a band with Jeremy Pelt on trumpet, Jimmy Greene on saxophones, Renee Rosnes on piano and Peter Washington on bass. (Through Jan. 14.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

NIGHT OF THE COOKERS 2007 (Tonight and tomorrow night) Blazing hard bop, in no uncertain terms: the tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander presides, but just as much heat will be generated by his fellow tenor George Coleman, the trumpeters Jim Rotondi and Jeremy Pelt, and the pianist Harold Mabern. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $30. (Chinen)

* NYC WINTER JAZZFEST (Wednesday) The Knitting Factory commits all three of its floors to jazz during this sprawling one-night festival, which will feature 17 different bands. Among the highlights are groups led by the alto saxophonists Rudresh Mahanthappa and Steve Lehman, the trumpeter Maurice Brown and the guitarists Liberty Ellman and Joel Harrison. From 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)

GRETCHEN PARLATO (Tonight and Thursday) Ms. Parlato is a cosmopolitan singer with a lilting tone but sharp musical instincts; her rapport with the guitarist Lionel Loueke, with whom she performs in a duo on Thursday, is ocean-deep. Opening on Thursday is the Polish vocalist Aga Zaryan. Tonight at 6, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover. Thursday at 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $15, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

J. D. PARRAN (Wednesday) Mr. Parran plays alto clarinet, soprano saxophone, bamboo flute and contrabass clarinet on the recent album ''Omegathorp: Living City'' (Y'All), which also features the sitar playing of Mark Deutsch, the vocals of Thomas Buckner, the cello work of David Darling and the percussion of Kevin Norton. There will be no sitar in the mix next week, but the ensemble's texture-oriented approach should hardly be hindered. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

NICHOLAS PAYTON QUARTET (Wednesday and Thursday) Nicholas Payton, an abundantly gifted trumpeter, has recently oscillated between hard bop and electric fusion, producing good results in both areas. The group he leads here could move in any direction he chooses. (Through Jan. 14.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

LONNIE PLAXICO GROUP (Tonight) The bassist and composer Lonnie Plaxico pursues a dynamic brand of contemporary fusion in this ensemble, with Jeff Hermanson on trumpet, Mike Mcginnis on saxophones, Helen Sung on piano and organ and Kenny Grohowski on drums. At 10 and 11, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* DIZZY REECE QUARTET (Tonight) In the 1950s and '60s, Dizzy Reece was one of the sharper hard-bop trumpeters on the scene; his fortunes since then have been uneven, and these days he performs infrequently. His rhythm section here consists of Mike Longo on piano, Lee Hudson on bass and James Worth on drums. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 620-5000, Ext. 344, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)

SHAKERS N' BAKERS (Tuesday) The so-called vision songs of 19th-century Shaker women provide a distinctive repertory for this ensemble, which includes the vocalists Mary LaRose and Miles Griffith, the saxophonist Jeff Lederer, the keyboardist Jamie Saft, the bassist Chris Lightcap and the drummer Allison Miller. At 9 p.m., BAMCafe, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; no cover. (Chinen)

* SIM FACULTY CONCERT (Thursday) The School for Improvised Music is a nonprofit enterprise in which the instructors are adventurous musicians; among them are the trumpeter Ralph Alessi, the saxophonists Peter Epstein and Ravi Coltrane, the pianist Andy Milne, the bassist Mark Helias and the drummer Tom Rainey. At 8 p.m., Center for Improvisational Music, 295 Douglass Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (212) 631-5882, schoolforimprov.org; $12; $8 for students. (Chinen)

MARVIN STAMM QUARTET (Wednesday) The veteran big band and studio trumpeter Marvin Stamm has focused fruitfully in recent years on a solo career, and on a good working quartet with the drummer Ed Soph, the bassist Rufus Reid and the pianist Bill Mays. At 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; no cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MICHAEL WEISS QUARTET (Thursday) Michael Weiss, a pianist with extensive sideman credits, brings sophistication and precision to this band, with Bob Sheppard on saxophones, Ugonna Okegwo on bass and Greg Hutchinson on drums. At 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; no cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

STEVE WILSON QUARTET (Thursday) An alto saxophonist with a dry tone but a rounded sense of phrase, Steve Wilson leads a strong working band, with Bruce Barth on piano, Ed Howard on bass and Adam Cruz on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'THE FIRST EMPEROR' (Tonight and Tuesday) The excitement of a world premiere at the Metropolitan Opera, combined with widespread interest among the general public in the composer Tan Dun, who won an Oscar for his score to ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,'' have resulted in a sold-out run for this opera. Alas, the story of Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor of China, who unified the country through brutality and conquest, is compelling, but Mr. Tan's ponderous score is a huge disappointment. There are gripping moments, especially some propulsive orchestra passages that incorporate Chinese instruments. But the opera's lyrical flights are slow-moving, ponderous and sometimes cloying. Mr. Tan has tried to meld Chinese melody and Italianate lyricism. His music, though, seems caught in some nowhere land between ''Crouching Tiger'' and Puccini's ''Turandot.'' Even the great Placido Domingo, bravely taking on the challenging title role, cannot save the show. The colorful production is by the Chinese film director Zhang Yimou (''House of Flying Daggers''). Mr. Tan conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini)

'DIE FLEDERMAUS' (Tonight through Sunday) In its 59th season the Amato Opera continues to stage productions in its tiny quarters on the Bowery. Now offered is Strauss's merry ''Fledermaus,'' with a rotating cast. The quality often varies, but the spirit is usually there. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 2:30, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200, amato.org; $35; $28 for students and 65+. (Vivien Schweitzer)

* 'I PURITANI' (Tomorrow and Thursday) The reason the Met dusted off its stodgy old 1976 production of this Bellini work, and the one compelling reason to see it, is Anna Netrebko. This glamorous, dusky-voiced Russian soprano makes an affecting and vocally lustrous Elvira, the daughter of a stern Puritan father during the English Civil War whose sanity slips away when she thinks her adored Arturo, a Royalist sympathizer, is unfaithful. Ms. Netrebko may not be a bel canto purist's ideal -- her execution of coloratura roulades is sometimes imprecise, and her diction could use more clarity -- but she sings excitingly and stops the show with her Act II mad scene. On the illness-plagued opening night last week, only the fine bass-baritone John Relyea, singing Elvira's kindly uncle despite grappling with remnants of bronchitis, was in the same dramatic class as the star. Patrick Summers conducts. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Tommasini)

'LA TRAVIATA' (Wednesday) Franco Zeffirelli's overly plush and extravagant production returns to the Met's repertory with the excellent soprano Hei-Kyung Hong as Violetta. Joining this highly regarded artist as Alfredo is Wookyung Kim, a tenor from Ms. Hong's native South Korea making his Met debut. The American baritone Charles Taylor sings Germont. Carlo Rizzi conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Tommasini)

'DIE ZAUBERFLOTE' (Tomorrow and Monday) This revival of Julie Taymor's production continues at the Metropolitan Opera, complete with the magical puppets and stage effects that made it an audience hit when it opened in 2004. Tomorrow Scott Bergeson conducts a cast that includes the fabulous German bass Rene Pape as Sarastro, with Erika Miklosa as Queen of the Night, Matthew Polenzani as Tamino, Rodion Pogossov as Papageno and Nicole Heaston as Pamina. On Monday Lisa Milne sings Pamina. Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Monday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $42 to $295 tickets remain tomorrow; $15 to $320 on Monday. (Schweitzer)

Classical Music

AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Sunday) Leon Botstein has thought up another interesting afternoon, this time centering on Cesar Franck and including both his famous D minor Symphony and pieces by three of his pupils: Ernest Chausson, Paul Dukas and Alberic Magnard. At 3 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $27 to $55. (Bernard Holland)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday) The guitarist Jorge Caballero presents a solo recital that includes, of all things, an arrangement of Dvorak's Ninth Symphony, as well as works by Poulenc, Milhaud, Turina and others. A Latinate theme continues in tomorrow and Sunday's program for clarinet trio, with Beethoven's Opus 38 trio balancing out works by Nino Rota, Paquito D'Rivera and Astor Piazzolla. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 4, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+, tonight only. (Anne Midgette)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Thursday) The double-bass and the double-bassist DaXun Zhang get something of a workout in a program that includes Rossini's Duetto in D for Cello and Bass, and Schubert's familiar ''Trout'' Quintet for piano and strings. At 6:45 p.m., Rose Studio, 165 West 65th Street, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; sold out. (Holland)

CHIARA STRING QUARTET (Tuesday and Thursday) ''Mestizaje: Harmony of Differences'' is the title of the Chiara String Quartet's concert at Merkin Concert Hall on Thursday devoted to composers whose music spans two cultures, including Gabriela Lena Frank (Chiara has recorded her ''Leyendas: An Andean Walkabout'') and Zhou Long. This fine, Juilliard-trained quartet, which seeks new paths through the field of classical music, will also play at Rose Live Music in Brooklyn on Tuesday, with a program to be announced from the stage. Thursday at 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, ekcc.org; $25. Tuesday at 9 p.m., Rose Live Music, 345 Grand Street, between Marcy Avenue and Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, (718) 599-0960; $5. (Midgette)

COMPOSERS GUILD OF NEW JERSEY (Thursday) The formidable modernist composer Charles Wuorinen has had major productions and performances of large-scale works in New York in recent seasons, notably his opera ''Haroun and the Sea of Stories,'' given its premiere by City Opera, and his Piano Concerto No. 4, performed at Carnegie Hall by the pianist Peter Serkin and the Boston Symphony, conducted by James Levine. On Thursday the Composers Guild of New Jersey presents a program of recent chamber and vocal works by Mr. Wuorinen, including the New York premiere of ''Fenton Songs II,'' settings of poems by James Fenton on themes of war and political upheaval. The strong roster of performers include the soprano Lucy Shelton, the baritone Thomas Meglioranza, the pianist Alan Feinberg, the violinist Mark Steinberg and the cellist Nina Maria Lee. At 8 p.m., Christ and St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, 120 West 69th Street, Manhattan, (212) 787-2755, cgnj.org; free. (Tommasini)

* EIGHTH BLACKBIRD (Thursday) This inventive and energetic young new-music ensemble from Chicago has built its audience with eclectic programming and commissioning. They have also impressed listeners by playing complex scores by memory, a feat rarely seen in ensemble concerts with much more familiar music. The program includes works by Steve Mackey, Jennifer Higdon, Gordon Fitzell and David M. Gordon. At 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org; $10. (Allan Kozinn)

JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) The bassoonist Frank Morelli is the guest of this feisty chamber ensemble in a woodwind-dominated program that includes arrangements of arias by Rossini and Mozart, an unfinished wind quintet by Schubert, Gounod's ''Petite Symphonie'' and an Andante by Reicha. At 2 and 7:30 p.m., Good Shepherd-Faith Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 799-1259, jupitersymphony.com; $10 to $25. (Kozinn)

* 'MOSTLY OPERETTA' (Wednesday and Thursday) To celebrate a neglected genre that once held Europe in thrall and spawned the Broadway musical, the Austrian Cultural Forum is starting a two-week festival on Wednesday with a program of Emmerich Kalman, Oscar Straus and Franz Lehar, accompanied by visuals by the Austrian artist Victoria Coeln. Kalman and Lehar both wrote for Marta Eggerth, a major stage and screen star from the 1930s who has retained a solid vocal technique into her ninth decade, and gave several sold-out cabaret evenings at Cafe Sabarsky last year to prove it. On Thursday she will talk about operetta style and demonstrate it with some singing of her own; it's worth hearing. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7 p.m., 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org; free, but reservations are required. (Midgette)

MY LORD CHAMBERLAIN'S CONSORT (Sunday) This early-music group was formed in 1997 to present a complete performance of John Dowland's ''First Book of Songs or Ayres.'' Here they will perform four centuries of English carols arranged for lutes, harps, voices and viol. At 3 p.m., Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, at 73rd Street, (212) 288-8920, mapc.com; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Schweitzer)

NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS (Tonight through Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) ''The Yeoman of the Guard'' is perhaps Gilbert and Sullivan's most operatic work; ''Mikado,'' their most beloved; and ''The Rose of Persia,'' not really a Gilbert and Sullivan work at all, since the book (based on the ''Arabian Nights'') was written by Basil Hood some years after a quarrel ended Gilbert and Sullivan's collaboration. These three works constitute the 33rd season of New York's best-established G&S troupe, led by the indomitable Albert Bergeret. ''Yeoman,'' tonight at 8 and Sunday afternoon at 3; ''Mikado,'' tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., and Tuesday at 7 p.m.; ''Rose,'' Thursday at 8 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org; $40 to $96, 10 percent off $40 to $80 tickets for 65+. (Midgette)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Today, tomorrow and Tuesday) Old favorites are making return visits, and this means the pieces and the performers. Zubin Mehta conducts, and Pinchas Zukerman is the soloist in the Beethoven Violin Concerto and Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring.'' Today at 11 a.m., tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $33 to $101. (Holland)

'ONE DOLLAR CONCERT AT CARNEGIE HALL' (Tomorrow) The pianist Joao Carlos Martins, a Brazilian who has made some provocative but powerful Bach recordings, has moved to the podium and is introducing himself to New York as a conductor in a bargain-priced concert meant also to call attention to the Amazon Region Protected Areas program and its efforts to preserve the Amazon rain forest. Mr. Martins will lead his 27-player Bachiana Chamber Orchestra in Bach's Orchestral Suite No. 1, Villa-Lobos's ''Preludio Bachiana'' and the premiere of ''Amazona'' by Stefan Meylaers. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $1. (Kozinn)

* SEQUITUR (Monday) This first-rate new-music band turns its attention to contemporary Cuban works, with a program that includes scores by Tania Leon, Sergio Barroso, Keyla Orozco, Orlando Jacinto Garcia and Jorge Martin. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, sequitur.org; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Kozinn)

VOLKER VOGEL (Tuesday) The music of the Austrian composer and writer Ernst Krenek ranges from neo-romanticism to serialism. He wrote his tonal ''Reisebuch aus den Osterreichischen Alpen,'' a cycle of 20 songs about the Austrian countryside, in 1929, after studying Schubert. Mr. Vogel, a tenor, sings the work as part of the Sound of Song series at the Austrian Cultural Forum, accompanied by the pianist Ann Beckman. At 8 p.m., 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org; free, but reservations are required. (Schweitzer)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

JEN ABRAMS AND JACKIE MOYNAHAN (Tomorrow) Ms. Abrams promises to peel back the facade of a New York City apartment building and gaze into the lives of four city dwellers. Ms. Moynahan will delve into desensitizing media images. At 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, dixonplace.org; $12 or T.D.F.; $10 for students and 65+. (Jennifer Dunning)

LES BALLETS TROCKADERO DE MONTE CARLO (Tonight through Sunday afternoon) Lots of men can wear tutus; point shoes are another matter. If you want to see how real men pirouette, check out the Trocks, as they are called, performing classics like ''Swan Lake'' and creepy 20th-century ballets like ''The Cage.'' Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $44. (Claudia La Rocco)

BEYOND THE SILK ROAD: TRADITIONAL AND NEW MIDDLE EASTERN DANCE (Sunday) Part of the 92nd Street Y's informal Sundays @ Three series, this program features dance and talk by choreographer-performers known as Altagracia, Ayshe, Blanca, Layla and Zenaide. At 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $10. (Dunning)

CLARE BYRNE DANCE (Thursday) Ms. Byrne, a nicely quirky longtime presence in New York modern dance, describes her ''Rounds, the First Last Dance, or the Last First Dance, or an Ordination'' as calling up ''the doing-ness of dance. Uh-oh. (Through Jan. 14.) At 8 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com; $20. (Dunning)

Complexions Contemporary Ballet (Tuesday through Thursday) This company, founded in 1994 by Dwight Rhoden and Desmond Richardson, is notable for its wonderful dancers and, often, less-than-wonderful choreography. But this season looks promising, with a work by Mr. Richardson to the music of Marvin Gaye; new pieces by Nicolo Fonte and Jodie Gates; and a solo for Mr. Richardson -- one of dance's true stars -- by Taye Diggs. Yes, that Taye Diggs. Tuesday and Wednesday at 7.30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $42; $32 for Joyce members. (Roslyn Sulcas)

* DANCE ON CAMERA FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday and Wednesday) Presented by the Dance Film Association and the Film Society of Lincoln Center, this festival ranges more widely than ever, with nine programs of dance created for the camera, documentaries and archival compilations. Today at 1, 3:30, 6:15 and 8:30 p.m.; tomorrow at 1, 3:30, 6 and 8:30 p.m.; Sunday at 1, 4 and 7 p.m. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center; $10; $5 for 65+ and children 6 through 12. Other programs, at other sites, include a retrospective of work by Elaine Summers and discussions on editing and creating dance with a narrative. (212) 496-3809, dancefilms.org. (Dunning)

COMPANY EAST (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Hiroshi Jin's Company East makes its American debut in a dance-theater production of ''Medea'' that incorporates elements of Noh theater, Western modern dance and karate stances. (Through Jan. 14.) Tonight and tomorrow and Thursday nights at 7:30, Sunday at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

KELLEY DONOVAN & DANCERS (Tonight and tomorrow) The company will perform ''It's All Forgotten Now,'' created by Ms. Donovan, a Boston-based choreographer with an interest in exploring the initiation of movement as well as abrupt shifts in dynamics and weight. Tonight at 9, tomorrow night at 8, Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (781) 420-3893; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

'GENE POOL' (Tonight through Sunday) This showcase features dances by B. J. Sullivan, Nia Love, Janessa Clark and Shelley Poovey. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com; $17. (Dunning)

JEAN ISAACS SAN DIEGO DANCE THEATER (Thursday) This program includes a new piece by Jeffrey Gerodias, a former Alvin Ailey dancer, and four quartets to music by Steve Reich. (Through Jan. 13.) At 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

Movement Research at the Judson Church (Monday) Three or four choreographers show new work each week during this series, which aims to provide an environment for works in progress. Next week the choreographers are Levi Gonzalez, Lyndsey Karr and Sakura Shimada. At 8 p.m., Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, movementresearch.org; free. (Sulcas)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The company director, Peter Martins, has combined the sleekness of 21st-century ballet dancing with elements of the 19th-century classic in this staging of ''The Sleeping Beauty.'' This production also offers a chance to savor familiar favorites and unfamiliars in new roles. Tonight there will be debuts in the leading roles: Prince Desire (Sebastien Marcovici), Aurora (Yvonne Borree), the Lilac Fairy (Sara Mearns) and the evil Carabosse (a vivid Melissa Barak). The cast will return on Sunday afternoon. The ballet's lead roles will also be danced by Wendy Whelan, Jennie Somogyi, Jenifer Ringer, Philip Neal, Teresa Reichlen and others. Tonight and Thursday night at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $20 to $95. (Dunning)

SLAMFEST/KARL ANDERSON (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Anderson's wild imagination gives much of his work the quality of something uncorked from a genie's bottle. At 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, (212) 334-7479; $15. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

* American Museum of Natural History: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. Having delved into pearls, diamonds and amber, the museum applies its time-tested show-and-tell formula to gold. An astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples, larded with fascinating facts and tales, ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure, Bangladesh dowry rituals and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org. (Roberta Smith)

Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'DESIGN LIFE NOW: NATIONAL DESIGN TRIENNIAL 2006,' through July 29. This ambitious show illuminates the volatile, contradictory and ever-expanding field of design, but fails to call it to order. The inclusions cover medical innovation, military hardware, completely frivolous reiterations of received ideas, sundry Web sites and magazines, haute couture, architecture and more varieties of recycling than you can easily count. The show coalesces into deliberately orchestrated skirmishes between conflicting principles and entities: corporate and private, decorative and essential. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, ndm.si.edu. (Smith)

* GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'Spanish Painting from El Greco to Picasso, TIME, TRUTH, AND HISTORY' through March 28. This show is carried along on its sheer star power and optical finesse. There are dozens of Goyas and Velazquezes and Zurbarans and El Grecos and Riberas and Dalis and Picassos, many famous, many not. The big point is that Spanish art did not constantly reinvent itself over time. It was a bubble culture, sustained for centuries by its political and religious isolation and its national loner mindset. Velazquez's painting of a dwarf is alone worth crossing a continent to see. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Michael Kimmelman)

* THE METropolitan museum of art: 'GLITTER AND DOOM: GERMAN PORTRAITS FROM THE 1920s,' through Feb. 19. This show's 100 paintings and drawings are by 10 artists, among them George Grosz, Christian Schad, Rudolf Schlichter and Karl Hubbuch, and most conspicuously the unrelentingly savage Otto Dix and his magnificent other, Max Beckmann. In their works the Weimar Republic's porous worlds reassemble. We look into the faces of forward-looking museum directors and cabaret performers, society matrons and scarred war veterans, prostitutes and jaded aristocrats who were watching their world slide from one cataclysm to the next. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

* THE MET: 'LOUIS COMFORT TIFFANY AND LAURELTON HALL -- AN ARTIST'S COUNTRY ESTATE,' through May 20. Laurelton Hall may have burned to the ground in 1957, but this exhibition does an excellent job of reassembling what remains of this extraordinary house-museum and its gardens, which Tiffany created for himself in the early 1900s. The Gilded Age opulence of the place, which occupied 580 acres overlooking Long Island Sound -- and of the Tiffany residences preceding it -- is conveyed most blatantly by the Temple-of-Dendur-size Daffodil Terrace, in wood, marble and glass. The main events are the glass windows, vases and lamps, where Tiffany's genius for color, love of the exotic and reverence for nature coalesce into an unforgettable mystical materialism. (See above.) (Smith)

* MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'SAUL STEINBERG: ILLUMINATIONS,' through March 4. Saul Steinberg's famous New Yorker cover positioning Manhattan at the center of the world may be his best-known drawing, but he took on everything with visual puns, manic doodles, grandiloquent calligraphy and other inspired artifice. As this show of more than 100 drawings, collages and constructions goes on, Steinberg's progress is evident: from relatively simple cartoons like ''Feet on Chair'' (1946), in which a fellow reading a newspaper parks his feet on the seat of an ornate Victorian monstrosity, to complex comments on the state of the world, like ''Street War (Cadavre Exquisis)'' (about 1972-74), derived from news clips of postcolonial troubles in the Middle East and Africa. The flow of his work amazes. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Grace Glueck)

* Museum of Arts & Design: 'Simply DROOG: 10 + 3 YEARS OF CREATING DISCUSSION AND INNOVATION,' through Jan. 14. Droog Design, a many-headed, loosely affiliated collective of usually, but not entirely, Dutch designers and architects has probably generated more discussion than innovation in its 13 years of existence. Presented in a free-flowing, Droog-designed layout, this show vigorously continues the process. It includes about 150 mostly domestic objects by scores of designers. Some are great, some are silly, some are Conceptual Art. But there is plenty to sink your teeth into, especially with help from the small free brochure containing label information and rationales for each item. 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535, madmuseum.org. (Smith)

* MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'A CITY ON PAPER: SAUL STEINBERG'S NEW YORK,' through March 25. A very lively adjunct to the Morgan show, this smaller display of some 40 drawings focuses on New York. An architect, Steinberg was particularly attracted to edifices like the Chrysler Building, which appears here looming majestically over brownstones and in another incarnation, from a perspective directly below it, looking positively squat. New York people, in Steinberg's eyes, could be monuments, too. You may think you know Steinberg's work, but these shows make it new. 1220 Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Glueck)

Onassis Cultural Center: 'Athens-Sparta,' through May 12. Painted vases, pottery, sculptured steles, tiny carved figures, writings inscribed on stone and a selection of coins are among the nearly 300 objects in this show, whose first section begins with objects from both cities during the Geometric Period (1050-700 B.C.) Two other sections deal with the on-again, off-again relationship between the cities in the fifth century B.C. As society evolved from tribal to civil and felt the first stirrings of democracy during the Archaic Period (650-480 B.C.), rigid geometrical motifs were succeeded by more human forms, like the kouroi and korai, the stone or bronze statues, sometimes life-size, representing young men and women and symbolizing a new emphasis on the individual. On view from the sixth century B.C. are two small Attic representations of kourai, dressed statues of maidens, said to represent the Athenian aristocracy in rites celebrating the goddess Athena. Carved in stone, with long, braided hair (one is headless, but her braids are visible) and beautifully articulated drapery that clings to their bodies, they disappeared as a type after the Persian wars. 645 Fifth Avenue, near 52nd Street, (212) 486-4448. (Glueck)

* P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'DEFAMATION OF CHARACTER,' through Jan. 15. With 46 artists and a mix of usual and unusual suspects, this exhibition forms a black hole in which Dada, Fluxus, Punk, Pop, Conceptual and Neo-Conceptual mingle like cackling furies along with Performance art, feminism, abject art and various forms of appropriation. While its dour tone becomes a bit relentless, it is admirably consistent and shows artists grappling with reality, which has its own kind of comfort. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Smith)

P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'THE GOLD STANDARD,' through Jan 15. Gold is both color and subject in this glittering, pertinent show, installed on creamy yellow walls. Even though a generally dim view of contemporary society prevails, it is scary how good gold makes everything look. (See above.) (Smith)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Kiki Smith: A Gathering, 1980-2005,' through Feb. 11. Many things fly and float here: men and women, harpies and angels, birds and beasts, toadstools and stars. And some things fall to earth, or rather to the museum's black stone floors, maybe to rise again, maybe not. The whole show, a midcareer retrospective, suggests a Victorian fairy tale, its tone at once light, grievous and dreamlike. But fanciful as it is, Ms. Smith's art is also deeply, corporeally realistic. It wears moral and mortal seriousness on its sleeve, if not tattooed on its wrist. It is about life and death, the essential things. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Holland Cotter)

Last Chance

American Folk Art Museum: 'A Deaf Artist in Early America: The Worlds of John Brewster Jr.,' Few Early American artists painted more incisive and empathetic likenesses than John Brewster Jr. (1766-1854), the subject of a fine traveling show at the American Folk Art Museum. And few worked under such potentially limiting circumstances: Mr. Brewster was born deaf in an era before remedial help or a common sign language existed. The case the show makes that Mr. Brewster's disability is reflected in his art is inconclusive, but the paintings are wonderful. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Looking Back from Ground Zero: Images from the Brooklyn Museum Collection' This show presents a historical picture of Lower Manhattan from early on to the present, with the building of the World Trade Center as the pivotal point. A short film, ''Building the World Trade Center,'' produced by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 1983, is an invaluable document of the triumphalist spin surrounding the construction of the complex. A small selection of artworks produced in or just after 2001 hints at the profound and conflicted feelings the destruction of the twin towers has evoked. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. ( Cotter)

* Frick Collection: 'Domenico Tiepolo (1727-1804): A New Testament' The 60 ink drawings by Domenico Tiepolo, son of the Italian master painter Giambattista, have a funny kind of jitter. They look as if they were maybe woven from hair-fine brambles, or done on a ride over rough ground, or in a state of agitated elation. Illustrations of episodes from the four Gospels, they are among some 300 drawings the artist did in a project that seems to have been an extended exercise in personal piety. In them the Christian story of salvation becomes an operatic epic, gravely serious but with notes of homely sweetness: Jesus in Gethsemane delivers his aria of mortal doubt and pain high up on a bare stage, all alone; the Virgin Mary's mother, Anna, aged and stooped, is cosseted by angel-nurses who guide her every step. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

International Center of Photography: 'Ecotopia: The Second I.C.P. Triennial of Photography and Video' Punctuated by big, black oozing forms that are both comic and ominous, this edifying, entertaining, ecologically aware exhibition is a walk-through version of Al Gore's ''Inconvenient Truth.'' The work on view represents nearly 40 artists and photojournalists and portrays nature as variously ravishing, cute and enduring, and also increasingly dangerous and endangered. Along the way, some of the current uses for, and technical developments in, photography and video are surveyed, adding to the impression that the I.C.P.'s focus on camera-related media, coupled with its curators' determination to be purposefully topical, sidesteps many of the pitfalls of the biennial-triennial genre. International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'FRAGONARD AND THE FRENCH TRADITION' AND 'MOZART AT 250: A CELEBRATION' Memorializing Mozart's 250th birthday and the 200th anniversary of the death of the French painter Jean-Honore Fragonard, these small, paired shows reflect the elegance and brio of 18th-century culture. The Fragonard display consists only of his drawings and those of some compatriots, among them Francois Boucher, Hubert Robert and Jean-Baptiste Greuze and Jacques-Louis David; 40 works in all, drawn almost entirely from the Morgan's collection. The show effectively displays the virtuosity and variety of Fragonard's many styles, from his skills at depicting foliage-filled landscapes and the play of water in fountains and streams, to his keenness at capturing people, mythological scenes and ephemeral creatures. Although the works in the Mozart display -- letters and musical scores, like the autograph manuscript of the ''Haffner'' Symphony performed at Mozart's first public concert in Vienna in 1783 -- are in quite a different visual language, they go very happily with the Fragonard group. 255 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org; closes on Sunday. (Glueck)

* New-York Historical Society: 'Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery' Slavery, some would say, didn't really end in the United States until the civil rights legislation of the '60s, a full century after the Emancipation Proclamation. Or the ''Emancipation Approximation,'' as the artist Kara Walker calls it in a series of hallucinatory silkscreen prints. They are among the high points of this large, powerful, subtle group show. 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

* A. L. STEINER: 1 MILLION PHOTOS, 1 EURO EACH (MINIMUM ORDER) and UNBORROWED FROM THE EYE: LUKE DOWD, SCOTT MYLES, DAVID NOONAN, BRETT CODY ROGERS AND GILES ROUND Contrasts happen. In the outer gallery five young men explore what might be called Neo-Constructivist quasi-painting with a kind of desperate, post-punk glower. In the inner gallery A. L. Steiner's raunchy, out-there photographs show almost nothing but women having a blast being women. They avoid the all-too-usual connotations of exploitation and sensationalism that plague intimate, often sexual photographs, which is no mean achievement, politically or aesthetically. John Connelly Presents, 625 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 337-9563, johnconnellypresents.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* CHEYNEY THOMPSON: 'QUELQUES ASPECTS DE L'ART BOURGEOIS: LA NON-INTERVENTION' A teasing, tantalizing, subtly beautiful show by one of the sharper young artists of the moment explores the tensions between street and studio, skill and skepticism, painting and nonpainting and culture and commerce with seemingly abstract canvases, photographs framed by folding street-vendor tables and tinted off-set lithographs of the gallery's storage shelves. The title translates as ''Certain Aspects of Bourgeois Art: Non-Intervention.'' Andrew Kreps, 525 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-8849; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* ATELIER VAN LIESHOUT: SLAVECITY In this only partly satirical show, architectural scale models, drawings, sculpture, a map and an extensive business plan propose a highly efficient, completely self-sufficient city whose ''participants'' each have a desk job, a farm job and very little time off. The tyranny of it all is brought home in the second gallery, which contains the ''Midi Disciplinator,'' a cell built to accommodate 18 people working in shifts, filing logs into sawdust for no good reason. Tanya Bonakdar Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-4144; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* 'When the Revolution Comes' The artist Michael St. John has brought some interesting people together in this scrappy, savory group show. It's great to revisit Nancy Grossman's leather-bound heads, looking as radical as they did 30 years ago, and Holt Quentel's distressed gray banners from the 1980s, out of view since but looking right, right now. Strong young artists like Nate Lowman, Joshua Weintraub and Josh White sustain growing reputations, and a bevy of less familiar figures look good. Also in the gallery: a small solo of vivacious, minutely detailed drawings by Josedgardo Granados that bring pre-Columbian and post-Columbian worlds together in a cultural and psychic revolution still in progress. Kathleen Cullen Fine Arts, 508 West 26th Street, Suite 5A, Chelsea, (212) 463-8500, kathleencullenfinearts.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

* The Whitney Museum of American Art: Mark Grotjahn Mining the early Modernist cusp where the figurative, the geometric, the spatial and the visionary still remain tangled, this Los-Angeles-based painter deploys his abstract pinwheel motifs on paper in eight brash, door-sized drawings. Multiple vanishing points destabilize radiating compositions that are variously Op and buzzy, darkly monochrome (and a little too pretentiously moody) or candy-color bright. In some works the motif is doubled and angled, decreasing the shieldlike frontality and opening up new optical and spatial possibilities. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A dance entry in the Listings pages of Weekend last Friday about Complexions Contemporary Ballet, which is at the Joyce Theater this week, misstated the date its engagement ends. It is Sunday; it did not end yesterday. 
 The entry also misidentified the choreographer whose work is set to the music of Marvin Gaye. He is Dwight Rhoden -- not Desmond Richardson, who is a choreographer and dancer who runs the company with Mr. Rhoden. And the entry included an outdated reference to a new work by Nicolo Fonte. The program was changed and does not include that work.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- ''Movement (R)Evolution Africa,'' top left, is being screened at Walter Reade Theater as part of the Dance on Camera Festival. Page 35. (Photo by DFA)
CLASSICAL -- Anna Netrebko, the Russian soprano, bottom left, is Elvira in ''I Puritani'' at the Metropolitan Opera House. Page 34. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 ART -- A marble statue of Athena from the fourth century B.C. is on display in an exhibition of objects from Athens and Sparta at the Onassis Cultural Center. Page 35. (Photo by National Archaeological Museum, Athens)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MUSIC (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); THEATER (58%); THEATER COMPANIES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



76 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: After 2 Years, Yankees Send Johnson Back To Arizona 

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER; John Dougherty contributed reporting from Phoenix.

 BODY:
With every move they make, the Yankees are looking back to go forward. They traded Randy Johnson to the Arizona Diamondbacks yesterday, effectively returning the pitcher they could not live without just two years ago. They also signed a first baseman, Doug Mientkiewicz, who is better known for his glove than his bat.
 Team officials confirmed the moves, but neither was announced, because the Diamondbacks must formalize a contract extension for Johnson and the Yankees must approve the results of Mientkiewicz's physical exam. But the thinking was consistent with the Yankees' approach this winter. 
In shedding Johnson two months after trading outfielder Gary Sheffield, the Yankees have jettisoned two expensive players with lengthy resumes who failed to bring a World Series title to the Bronx. In return, they have helped restock a farm system that is suddenly flourishing.
 In adding Mientkiewicz for one year and $1.5 million, the Yankees tightened their first-base defense after years of neglect. Jason Giambi, now a full-time designated hitter, has limited range and a poor arm, and Sheffield failed his brief audition at the end of last season. Mientkiewicz won a Gold Glove in 2001.
 In exchange for Johnson, the Yankees will receive the veteran right-handed reliever Luis Vizcaino and three prospects: the right-handers Ross Ohlendorf and Steven Jackson, and shortstop Alberto Gonzalez. The Yankees included $2 million to help offset Johnson's $16 million salary for 2007.
 At 4 p.m. yesterday, the Diamondbacks began a 72-hour negotiating window with Johnson to complete the trade. Johnson will probably sign a contract for 2008 and could allow the Diamondbacks to revise their payment schedule for the deferred money owed him from his previous Arizona contract.
 Johnson went 34-19 over two seasons with the Yankees, making 67 starts despite persistent back pain that required surgery Oct. 26. But he often seemed uncomfortable in New York, and the Yankees sensed this winter that he would be happier returning to Arizona, where he lives and where he won four Cy Young awards for the Diamondbacks.
 General Manager Brian Cashman called Johnson last month to express condolences after the death of Johnson's older brother. In that conversation, Johnson emphasized the importance of being closer to home. 
 Johnson had no contractual right to demand a trade, and the Yankees could have kept him, hoping that he would be healthy enough to work his usual 200 innings. But succeeding in New York can be challenging, even for players who want to be there. If a player wants out, the Yankees believe it is best to accommodate him.
 ''We're going to talk tomorrow morning, and our hope is that we can reach an agreement,'' Johnson's agent, Barry Meister, said last night. 
 So Johnson will move on, ending another mercenary's unfulfilled tenure in pinstripes. The Yankees have imported many stars since their last World Series victory, in 2000, but no combination has resulted in a championship.
 This winter's restructuring has included the return of starter Andy Pettitte, a mainstay from the title teams who signed a one-year, $16 million contract. The Johnson deal also frees up money to sign the free agent Roger Clemens, who pitched in four World Series for the Yankees.
 Clemens' agent, Randy Hendricks, has advised him to wait until midseason to return, a strategy that worked well in Houston last summer. The Yankees will let Clemens make his own timetable, but they are determined not to be outbid for him.
 The Astros and the Red Sox also have interest in Clemens, but Clemens seems to have grown weary of the Astros' lack of run support. It would be surprising if Clemens chose to sign with Boston for a lower salary instead of returning to the Yankees, where he could remain teammates with Pettitte, his close friend.
 Even if they somehow lose out on Clemens, the Yankees found the Johnson deal appealing because of the players they received in return.
 Vizcaino, 32, ranks second in games pitched among right-handers during the past five seasons. He was 4-6 with a 3.58 earned run average last season, with more strikeouts than innings pitched over 70 games.
 The Diamondbacks are flush with strong right-handers in their farm system; they released one, Brian Bruney, who played well for the Yankees late last season. Now the Yankees have two more in Ohlendorf and Jackson, both 24.
 Ohlendorf, who has an economics degree from Princeton, was 10-8 with a 3.25 E.R.A. in 28 starts last season, all but one at Class AA Tennessee. Jackson, who pitched four seasons at Clemson, was 8-10 with a 2.65 E.R.A. in Class AA. Gonzalez, 23, hit .290 in Class AA last season and, like Ohlendorf, appeared briefly in Class AAA.
 The Yankees acquired three minor league pitchers from Detroit in their November deal for Sheffield. After that trade, a writer from Baseball America listed the Yankees sixth among all teams for talent in their farm system. Last March, the magazine ranked them 17th.
 The foundation of the Yankees' recent dynasty, from 1996 until Johnson beat them in relief in Game 7 of the 2001 World Series, came from their farm system. Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera, Jorge Posada, Bernie Williams and Pettitte were all homegrown. As Cashman tries to emphasize development again, Williams, 38, is probably on his way out. The Mientkiewicz deal ensures that the Yankees will not have a roster spot for Williams.
 Counting Mientkiewicz as one of nine everyday players, the bench will include backups in the infield, first base and at catcher, with Melky Cabrera as the reserve outfielder. The Yankees plan to carry 12 pitchers.
 Mets Manager Willie Randolph admires Williams, who could try to stay in New York by signing with the Mets as a bench player. But the Mets, who are close to signing the reserve David Newhan, seem to like their bench as it is.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A sports article on Jan. 5 about the trade that sent pitcher Randy Johnson from the Yankees to Arizona referred incorrectly to the college degree held by Russ Ohlendorf, a player the Yankees received from the Diamondbacks. He has a degree in operations research and financial engineering, not economics, from Princeton University.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doug Mientkiewicz, who won a Gold Glove in 2001 with Minnesota, will give the Yankees a defensive upgrade at first base. (Photo by Kyle Ericson/Associated Press)(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); SPORTS AWARDS (74%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%) Baseball; Trades (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) New York Yankees; Arizona Diamondbacks

PERSON: Tyler Kepner; Randy Johnson; Luis Vizcaino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



77 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Police Training and Gun Use To Get Independent Review

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Responding to the shooting death of an unarmed Queens man by police officers nearly seven weeks ago, New York City's Police Department has commissioned a six-month independent review of its firearms training, of instances in which officers have fired their guns and of the phenomenon of so-called contagious shooting, the department's top official said yesterday.
 The study, which police officials said was the first of its kind commissioned by the department, will be done by the RAND Corporation, a private nonprofit organization that has reviewed police practices in other major cities, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said. The announcement came amid continuing bitterness since the death of Sean Bell, who was killed in a hail of 50 police bullets in Jamaica, Queens, hours before his wedding on Nov. 25. 
''Questions have arisen as to the quality and effectiveness of our training'' Mr. Kelly said at a news conference. ''We thought it would be appropriate to bring in a recognized world-renowned nongovernment organization to take a look at all of our firearms training.''
 Mr. Kelly said a team from RAND would assess five aspects of firearm use by police officers. They include initial, continuing and tactical firearms training, investigations of police-involved shootings, and situations in which shots fired by one officer spur other officers to shoot, a phenomenon that may have played a role in Mr. Bell's death.
 The organization will delve into the details of shootings in which the police are involved, examining an officer's experience, the nature of the threat, the environment in which they fired their guns and other issues. Comparisons will be drawn to firearms training in other law enforcement agencies, Mr. Kelly said.
 RAND will not be looking into the death of Mr. Bell, which is under review by a grand jury in Queens, Mr. Kelly said.
 K. Jack Riley, the acting director of the RAND Center on Quality Policing, said the organization had previously evaluated training in the Los Angeles Police Department, investigated racial profiling among Oakland police officers, and examined ways to improve recruitment and retention among the police in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.
 ''This is a very proactive step the N.Y.P.D. is taking,'' Mr. Riley said. ''I think there is an honest interest in having a dispassionate third party take an objective look at their training, and see if there's anything they're not getting right -- or can improve -- with regards to firearms training.''
 News of the New York study, which will cost about half a million dollars and be paid for by the New York City Police Foundation, a charity that supports the Police Department, drew mixed responses from experts in firearms and police tactics.
 Thomas A. Reppetto, a former president of the Citizens Crime Commission, said that bringing in an outside organization like RAND would likely inspire more public confidence, which has wavered of late, than an in-house Police Department review would.
 But Dean Speir, who writes about firearms and tactics, asked why the Police Department had not undertaken such a review before, citing the death of Amadou Diallo, the unarmed West African immigrant whom officers shot at 41 times. Another expert suggested that the money would be better spent on hands-on tactical training.
 ''If you talk to cops, they'll tell you people on the front line are starved for operational training,'' said Eugene O'Donnell, a professor of police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
 But Paul J. Browne, a spokesman for the department, said that one purpose of the review was to determine whether the current training needed to be revamped. He also noted that Mr. Kelly was not the police commissioner during the Diallo shooting.
 ''What the commissioner wants is an independent assessment,'' Mr. Browne said. ''If the training needs to be improved, he wants an independent assessment of what improvements are needed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (94%); FIREARMS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); MISCONDUCT (73%); RACIAL PROFILING (73%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (70%); GRAND JURY (65%); HURRICANES (63%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%) Police; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Firearms

COMPANY: RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Rand Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

PERSON: Cara Buckley; Ray Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



78 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Turkmen Leader Proposes Vast Change to Lift Isolation 

BYLINE: By ILAN GREENBERG

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Turkmenistan's acting president, Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, who had promised only continuity with the severely authoritarian policies of his predecessor, on Thursday proposed measures that would help lift the nation from its fortresslike isolation. 
 Mr. Berdymukhammedov promised a laundry list of changes affecting agriculture, social assistance programs, education and the economy. The proposals, outlined in a speech in Ashgabat, the capital, included giving students access to foreign universities -- including those in the United States -- sending doctors to Western hospitals to acquire modern skills and extending primary schooling to 10 years. Mr. Berdymukhammedov also vowed to create a culture of entrepreneurship, suggesting that he would encourage private ownership of some residences and businesses. Almost all economic activity in Turkmenistan is tied to the government.
He also promised to allow universal access to the Internet. Turkmens are allowed almost no contact with the outside world. In recent years, even foreign newspapers and cable television from Russia were prohibited under the mercurial rule of Saparmurat Niyazov, the ''president for life,'' who died on Dec. 21. Simply receiving a telephone call originating in a foreign country can arouse the interest of Turkmenistan's feared security apparatus, said Turkmens who had spoken to journalists.
 Mr. Berdymukhammedov's public comments underscored the fluidity of the nation's opaque politics as it prepares for a presidential election on Feb. 11, foreign analysts said.
 ''I think there is a much more deeply rooted struggle for power in Turkmenistan than we originally thought,'' said Martha Brill Olcott, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, in a telephone interview. 
 As acting president, Mr. Berdymukhammedov, a former deputy prime minister, was prohibited by the Constitution from seeking the presidency. But the national legislature simply changed the rules to allow him to run and then approved a slate of colorless, midlevel bureaucrats and politicians as false opposition candidates. 
 But Mr. Berdymukhammedov may fear that such tactics are backfiring, Dr. Olcott said, strengthening the opposition in exile and increasing the chances that his opponents will gain support from Western governments. 
 ''Berdymukhammedov is seeking ways to appease the foreign community in order to get support for a very nondemocratic constitution modified in a very nondemocratic way, and to validate an election in which the electoral process was flawed from the beginning,'' she said. 
 The government trumpets its policy of geopolitical neutrality, but Turkmenistan's dependence on customers for its enormous natural gas deposits has given outside powers, especially Russia, Europe and the United States, significant influence.
 But few signs of outside pressure have been seen. 
 The ''Turkmenistan government is going to have to moderate their own political process,'' Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said Wednesday, when asked by reporters how the United States would respond to recent lobbying from Turkmen opposition figures for support of the country's exiled political opposition.
 In his speech, Mr. Berdymukhammedov also promised to double state pensions, student stipends and government salaries, to build resorts on the Caspian Sea and to continue Mr. Niyazov's popular program of distributing water, salt and gasoline free.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); WRITERS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: Ilan Greenberg; Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov; Saparmurat (Pres) Niyazov

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKMENISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%) Turkmenistan; Turkmenistan

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



79 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 831 words

 BODY:

REVERSAL OF FORTUNE -- Activist shareholders, once derided on Wall Street as irrelevant distractions, are wielding growing influence in corporate inner sanctums as they successfully press for changes in investments strategies or the removal of executives. [Page C1.] 


A DIRECTOR'S INFLUENCE -- Kenneth Langone, below, a director at Home Depot, has a reputation for paying his chief executives well, which he demonstrated when he recruited Robert L. Nardelli. But when Mr. Nardelli failed to agree to a pay cut, he lost Mr. Langone's crucial support on the board. [C1.]

SEEKING ANSWERS AT GAP -- Gap, the clothing chain, said sales plunged 8 percent in December -- the third dismal holiday season in a row -- and its directors are intensifying pressure on the chief executive, Paul S. Pressler, to pull the company out of its sales slump. [C1.]

A HOMETOWN FIRM'S MALAISE -- The color of Ford Motor's well-known logo -- blue -- now best describes the mood at the company, which is rapidly seeing its position in the industry and in its hometown of Detroit eroded by its failure to combat foreign competition. [C1.]

TOUGH TALK BY G.M. CHIEF -- The chief executive of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, said his company was not ready to concede its position as the world's largest automaker, but he offered scant evidence that G.M. could fend off a challenge from Toyota. [C4.]

DRUG MAKER OFFERS TO SETTLE -- Eli Lilly agreed to pay up to $500 million to settle 18,000 lawsuits from people who claimed they had developed diabetes or other diseases after taking Zyprexa, Lilly's drug for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. [C1.]

AN EXPENSIVE 30 SECONDS -- More than a dozen marketers have agreed so far to pay a estimated average of $2.6 million -- a record amount -- for each 30-second commercial during Super Bowl XLI on Feb. 4. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]

A BANKRUPTCY IN PUBLISHING -- Book publishers braced themselves for a financial blow this week after a bankruptcy filing by a book distributor that owes more than $200 million to dozens of publishing companies. [C3.]

CONSIDERING A BUYOUT AT TRIBUNE -- The McCormick Tribune Foundation, the second-largest shareholder in the Tribune Company, said it had hired a buyout firm to advise it on a course of action while the Tribune Company is on the block. [C3.]

TIMES COMPANY SELLS TV STATIONS -- The New York Times Company has agreed to sell its nine local television stations to Oak Hill Capital Partners, a private equity firm, for $575 million. [C5.]

MARKETS HELPED BY OIL PRICES -- Wall Street struggled but ultimately closed higher as a bounce in technology stocks and sharply lower oil prices helped investors brush off concerns about sluggish consumer spending. [C7.]

SIGNS OF A SLACKENED ECONOMY -- Growth in the services sector slowed as expected in December and new factory orders rose at a disappointing pace in November, pointing to a slackening economy, reports showed. [C4.]

MERGER OF LAW FIRMS IS OFF -- One of the biggest proposed law firm mergers of the last year has been called off, the victim of too many insurmountable issues between the two firms: Dewey Ballantine and Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe.[C3.]

A HOPEFUL CHANGE IN NEWARK -- After 30 years of decline and a decade of sporadic renewal efforts, Newark is showing signs of promise: more than 2,500 private homes are being constructed, Barnes & Noble is looking for a space downtown and suburbanites and New Yorkers are moving into the city's first luxury high-rise in a generation. [A1.]

MONSANTO'S JUMP IN PROFITS -- Monsanto, the agricultural products company, reported a 53 percent jump in first-quarter profit because of rising demand for corn seeds and Roundup herbicide, and forecast 2007 earnings below analysts' estimates. [C7.]

ETHANOL DEMAND ON CORN SUPPLIES -- A study has found that ethanol plants could use as much as half of America's corn crop next year, a finding that renews concerns about whether there will be enough corn to support the demand for both fuel and food. [C7.]

INFANT SEATS SUFFER DAMAGE -- Car seats for infants often fail to withstand the impact when a vehicle is struck by another from the side, according to laboratory tests conducted by Consumer Reports. [A11.]

TAKING FROM THE COLLECTION PLATE -- A survey by researchers at Villanova University has found that 85 percent of Roman Catholic dioceses that responded had discovered embezzlement of church funds in the last five years, with 11 percent reporting that more than $500,000 had been stolen. [A11.]

ONLINE

WII'S MEANS OF MOTION -- The Nintendo Wii video game console is redefining the way video games are played. An interactive graphic can be found at nytimes.com/technology.

MORE CAMERA FOR THE MONEY -- A look at 11 compact digital cameras that offer more bang for the buck. A slide show can be found at nytimes.com/technology.

SECOND OPINION -- Despite disease outbreaks, public outrage over filthy conditions in produce seems to be lacking. A report is at nytimes.com/science.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Monsanto's shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (87%); PUBLISHING (85%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (69%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (67%); BOOK PUBLISHING (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); DIABETES (63%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (62%); BOOK & PERIODICAL WHOLESALERS (60%); PUBLISHING TRADE (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); ELI LILLY & CO (54%); OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (50%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (81%); FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (55%); LLY (SWX) (54%); LLY (NYSE) (54%); LEL (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (71%); RICK WAGONER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



80 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 936 words

PERSON: Patrick J. Foye

HEADLINE: A Downstate Deal Maker as Driven as His Boss 

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

DATELINE: SANDS POINT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
BLUNT to the cusp of brusque, Patrick J. Foye, the mergers-and-acquisitions specialist recruited by a long- ago law firm colleague, Eliot Spitzer, to run the downstate portion of the Empire State Development Corporation, is barking into his cellphone in the driveway of his unostentatious home -- a much-remodeled ranch with three nondescript vehicles outside -- in one of Sands Point's less sandy neighborhoods. No streetlights, no sidewalks, no stoplights: except for Mr. Foye and his loud conversation, this wealthy community on Long Island's North Shore is pin-drop territory. 
 The topic being discussed, just before the December holidays, is a business deal in the final, sensitive stages of gestation. The ear on the other end of the phone belongs to a reporter whom Mr. Foye doesn't know but whom he wishes to dissuade from a premature story that might adversely affect the deal. He barks again. He listens intently (the mark, he says later, of a highly trained debater, which he has been since high school in Queens). He signs off without ultimatums: ''Just call before you make a final decision. Thanks.'' Click. He gives his beard an absent-minded tug. And no, he won't share the specifics of the chat. 
He had not, officially, made the segue from his position as chief executive of the United Way of Long Island (a reclamation project of sorts) to his co-chairmanship of the development corporation, a job he accepted instantly over an egg-whites breakfast with Mr. Spitzer, then the governor-elect, in November, but was already adding his clout to the cause. If you agree to work for a crusader, says Mr. Foye, 49, whose job in the Spitzer administration began this week, you'd better be ready to be one.
 ''We're going to do projects that generate the highest fiscal and social return to the state and its taxpayers; we're committed to moving forward on the redevelopment of Penn Station and West 34th Street, Atlantic Yards and the revitalization of ground zero, and to other deals throughout the state,'' he says, marching into the dining room after exchanging a monosyllabic greeting with his wife, Suzanne. It appears that Mr. Foye is routinely brief, if affable, with everybody, his three daughters included. 
 ''How are you?'' he asks the oldest, 17. ''I'm sick,'' she says. ''So why are you still going to get a haircut?'' he asks. She shrugs and leaves with her mother, but not before Mr. Foye, wearing a whimsical red tie sprinkled with tiny gray clouds, hollers a quick question at his wife: ''Suzanne, what would you call our decorating style? Cluttered?'' She nods. Her most obvious contribution is Christmas knickknacks and two decorated trees. 
 His are on the walls, with the overstock crammed in a niche by the fireplace. Mr. Foye collects World War I bond posters insatiably; the pride and joy of his collection is an original rendition of Uncle Sam's ''I Want You,'' circa 1917, purchased for $500, which he estimates is now worth $10,000. ''It's the buy of a lifetime,'' he says, pragmatic even about aesthetics. 
 HE bought his first poster in 1981 after graduating from Fordham Law School and joining Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. Its theme, ''Buy Early,'' struck him as appropriate for a beginner mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer. He became a partner in 1989, and early on worked alongside Eliot and Silda Wall Spitzer, whom he describes as respected colleagues rather than close pals.
 ''He's a better lawyer than me, and she's better than both of us,'' Mr. Foye remarks. ''This is going to sound toadyish, but what he did as attorney general was a masterpiece of lawyering in the vision he had about how that office could be used. As governor, he's totally focused on making life better for the people of New York.''
 To help Mr. Spitzer do that, Mr. Foye, the son of Irish immigrants (his father was an elevator operator, doorman and union leader; his mother, a waitress) and the first in his family to graduate from high school and attend college (on a union scholarship), will have to be adept at squeezing dollars. Mr. Spitzer's budget emphasizes limited spending with no tax increases; his specific advice to Mr. Foye: be a tough deal maker and a nonpartisan decision maker. 
 ''Eliot's mandate is for the agency to become more effective and strategic in developing the economy of the state and to make great strides without spending additional dollars,'' says Mr. Foye, apparently comfortable with the notion of doing more with less. It's similar to the message he preached at United Way, where he spent three years righting the books and reconfiguring the mission.
 ''It had lost direction, management was tired, and it had lost the confidence of opinion makers,'' he says of the agency. He took a job there in 2004 after leaving a lucrative vice presidency with Aimco, a real estate investment trust, because he chose not to relocate his family to Denver. 
 His own fiscal conservatism, he says, is evident in the antistatus cars in the driveway. His idea of having a blast is beer, bagpipes and an annual St. Patrick's Day party in the backyard.
 ''Work is where you trade your time for making money, and money allows you to use your time in ways you choose.'' The Foyes choose travel when he's not working. Mr. Foye, a registered independent who was appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki as deputy chairman of the Long Island Power Authority in 1995, switched from law to business because ''businesspeople are decision makers, capital allocators, and leaders -- and the hours for business folks are better, too.''
 And the hours for public servants? Ask his new boss.


GRAPHIC: Photo: PATRICK J. FOYE (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERIOR DECORATING (57%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Empire State Development Corp

ELIOT SPITZER (90%) Robin Finn; Patrick J Foye; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State; Sands Point (NY)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



81 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Is Playing Down Expectations for Convention

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
With a decision from the Democratic National Committee on where it will hold its 2008 presidential nominating convention on the horizon, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appeared to dampen expectations yesterday that the party would choose New York over Denver, the other city still in contention. 
 Referring to Denver as the city ''which everybody says is the odds-on favorite,'' Mr. Bloomberg emphasized the difficulty of raising enough money to cover the costs of playing host to the convention, sounding very much like a man reluctant to win his own bid.
''The risks that we might have been willing to run four years ago probably aren't prudent to run today -- we just don't have to do that,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference in Brooklyn, referring to the successful effort to land the 2004 Republican National Convention in the aftermath of the 2001 terror attack, when the city's economic health was in question. ''Every convention, we welcome them here, whether it's for politics or commercial, but we're just not in the business of paying for it.''
 After the Republicans chose Minneapolis-St. Paul for their 2008 convention, the Democrats said they would make their selection before the end of last year, but decided to negotiate complete agreements with both competing cities before making that choice. As that process appeared to be coming to a close in December, both efforts hit snags. A crucial labor union in Denver refused to sign a pledge banning strikes during the convention, and Mr. Bloomberg in New York continued to raise alarms about the cost.
 Howard Dean, the party chairman, decided to wait until January to announce the convention city.
 Now, with Denver's labor situation still unsettled, Democratic officials appear no closer to a final decision, although Mr. Bloomberg's most recent comments seem aimed at lowering expectations that the convention would come East.
 ''I have no idea what they're going to do,'' Mr. Bloomberg told reporters, referring to Democratic officials. ''As I said, we'd love to have them, but I don't think the city can put itself on the line in this day and age to guarantee'' the $80 million to $100 million needed for such a convention.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TRENDS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Presidential Election of 2008; Conventions, National (US); Presidential Election of 2004; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Howard Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (74%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Denver (Colo); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



82 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: The First Energy President

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Now that President Gerald Ford has been buried with all the honors he deserved, it is time to discuss a proper memorial. I would suggest the Gerald Ford Energy Independence Act.
 Few people remember today, but ''Gerald Ford was the first U.S. president to really use the levers of the presidency to try to break our addiction to oil,'' said the energy economist Philip Verleger Jr. ''He was way ahead of his time.''
Well, his time has come again -- and then some. 
 The greatest thing George Bush could do -- for President Ford's legacy and his own -- would be to dedicate his upcoming State of the Union address to completing the energy independence agenda that Mr. Ford initiated 32 years ago in the wake of the 1973 Arab oil embargo and energy shock.
 As the page titled ''Energy'' from the Ford presidential library Web site reminds us: ''Early in his administration, President Ford said that he would not sit by and watch the nation continue to talk about an energy crisis and do nothing about it. Nor, he said, would he accept halfway measures which failed to change the direction that has made our nation so vulnerable to foreign economic interests. The president proposed firm but necessary measures designed to achieve energy independence for the U.S. by 1985, and to regain our position of world leadership in energy.''
 In his 1975 State of the Union speech, President Ford laid out his vision: ''I have a very deep belief in America's capabilities. Within the next 10 years, my program envisions: 200 major nuclear power plants; 250 major new coal mines; 150 major coal-fired power plants; 30 major new [oil] refineries; 20 major new synthetic fuel plants; the drilling of many thousands of new oil wells; the insulation of 18 million homes; and the manufacturing and the sale of millions of new automobiles, trucks and buses that use much less fuel. In another crisis -- the one in 1942 -- President Franklin D. Roosevelt said this country would build 60,000 military aircraft. By 1943, production in that program had reached 125,000 aircraft annually. They did it then. We can do it now.''
 Obviously, President Ford's emphasis on coal and domestic oil came in age when most people were unaware of climate change. Still, Mr. Ford wasn't just all talk on energy. He used his presidential powers to impose a $3-a-barrel fee on imported oil to reduce consumption. That was a big deal, noted Mr. Verleger, because the average cost of imported crude at the time was only $10.76 a barrel.
 Yes, you read that right. A Republican president actually imposed an import fee on oil to curb consumption! Yes, President Bush, it can be done! The republic survived! 
 Thanks to the Energy Policy Conservation Act of 1975 and other measures, Mr. Ford's energy legacy includes: the creation of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for use in an emergency; the phasing out of domestic price controls on oil to encourage more exploration; major investment in alternative energy research; assistance to states in developing energy conservation programs; and, most important, the creation of the first compulsory mileage standards for U.S. automobiles. 
 Those mileage standards have barely been tightened since 1975 -- because some idiotic congressmen from Michigan, who thought they were protecting Detroit, have blocked efforts to raise them. So, Japanese automakers innovated more in that area, and the rest is history -- or in the case of Detroit, obituary.
 Every 10 years we say to ourselves, ''If only we had done the right thing 10 years ago.'' Well, President Bush has a chance in his State of the Union to call on Americans to honor Mr. Ford by completing his vision. But it means asking Americans to do some hard things: accepting a gasoline or carbon tax; inducing Detroit to make more fuel-efficient cars, trucks and plug-in hybrids; setting a national requirement for utilities to provide 20 percent of their electricity from renewable wind, solar, hydro or nuclear power by 2015; and, finally, making large-scale investments in mass transit. 
 It is stunning that since 9/11 the Bush team has never mounted a campaign to get Americans to conserve energy.
 ''Ford called for zero oil imports by 1985,'' said Mr. Verleger. ''Instead, we imported five million barrels a day then. In 2006, imports will average almost 14 million barrels a day. Had we achieved everything Ford proposed, the price of oil today would be $20 a barrel, not $60, the polar ice caps might not be melting, the polar bear might still have a chance, and our children would have a future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (68%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (67%); COAL MINING (63%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (63%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); LIBRARIES (53%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Conservation of Resources; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush; Gerald Rudolph Jr (1913-2006) Ford

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



83 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Lagging Judicial Pay

 BODY:
Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. is embracing with gusto a cause championed by his predecessor, William Rehnquist: the need for a substantial pay raise for federal judges. Justice Roberts devoted his second annual year-end report to this issue, and it should be required reading in Congress. 
 Getting Congress to act promptly on judicial salaries may not be easy, if history is any guide. But Mr. Roberts is right to note the link between maintaining an adequate standard of judicial compensation and preserving the quality and independence of the judiciary, and to prod Congress on this issue.
For starters, an immediate increase in the neighborhood of 30 percent would help make up for dual blows of inflation and Congress's periodic withholding of cost-of-living adjustments. The last time federal judges received a substantial pay raise was 1989.
 By statute, a sitting federal trial judge makes $165,200 a year. That's a lot of money, the same pay as a member of Congress. But as the chief justice notes in his report, judges have fallen well behind the American labor force as a whole in keeping up with inflation. Since 1969, a judge's pay has declined by 23.9 percent, adjusted for inflation, while the national average for all wages rose by 17.8 percent.
 Federal judges at every level earn significantly less than law school deans, senior law school professors, and even junior associates at some big-time law firms. There is no definitive study, but it cannot be just coincidental that federal judges are leaving the bench at an increasing rate, thereby ''threatening the viability of life tenure,'' as Justice Roberts put it. Considering the impact on a future job could make judges less willing to issue unpopular rulings upholding important rights.
 It is tempting to dismiss as hyperbole the chief justice's characterization of this issue as a ''constitutional crisis.'' But the salary issue is a serious one, touching as it does on the two constitutional provisions designed to ensure an independent judiciary -- the one granting life tenure, and the other ensuring no reduction in judicial pay.
 The chief justice's focus on judicial pay has drawn praise from Senator Patrick Leahy, the new Judiciary Committee chairman and a longtime champion of improved judicial salaries. The nation would be well-served by a comprehensive bipartisan package that grants federal judges a sizable raise, ends the linkage between judicial and Congressional salaries, and requires judges to forgo privately financed junkets that cast an ethical cloud on the courts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ETHICS (78%); COST OF LIVING (76%); LABOR FORCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%) Courts; Editorials; Wages and Salaries; Judges

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (92%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



84 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts and the Minimum Wage

 BODY:
As the minimum wage moves to the top of the new Congress's agenda, some politicians -- mainly President Bush and Senate Republicans -- seem incapable of viewing the issue as anything other than a pretext for more tax cuts. This time the lucky recipients would be small-business owners, who the politicians contend will be unduly harmed by having to pay higher wages. So much for ringing in the new. 
 It has been more than nine years since the government last increased the federal minimum wage, currently $5.15 an hour. During that period inflation has severely eroded the wage's value. Arguing that it is only fair to cut taxes on business owners when the minimum wage goes up is akin to arguing that taxes should have been raised as the wage fell because of inflation. Instead, as the minimum wage has eroded over the past decade, taxes have been cut sharply.
It's even doubtful that the wage increase under discussion -- a $2.10 increase over roughly two years, to $7.25 -- would impair business. Eighty-six percent of small-business owners surveyed by the Wells Fargo/Gallup Small Business Index said the minimum wage had no effect on their businesses. 
 There's also no reason to believe that the proposed tax cuts would be aimed at employers of low-wage workers. In 2006, when Congress tried to link the minimum wage to tax cuts, the proposals included an estate-tax cut for America's wealthiest families. One proposal now being considered would allow small businesses to write off a larger part of their attorney fees when they go to court to challenge federal regulations. It sounds like a stretch to us that typical employers of minimum-wage workers -- say, restaurants and small factories -- are in any great need of relief from the high cost of federal litigation. 
 And then there's the probability that tax cuts would cost the government far more than a wage increase would ever cost employers, driving up the budget deficit. The Economic Policy Institute analyzed the tax cuts that were linked to an unsuccessful attempt to raise the minimum wage in 2000. Those cuts would have cost $123 billion over 10 years, versus $11.2 billion for the wage increase. 
 It's that sort of idiocy the new Congress was elected to stop. Chances are good the House of Representatives will eschew tax cuts and pass a clean bill to raise the minimum wage. The Senate should follow suit. And President Bush should sign it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LAWYERS (65%); LITIGATION (63%); RESTAURANTS (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Labor; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Taxation; Small Business; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (68%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



85 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2558 words

HEADLINE: 2 Miles in Newark That Run From Long Decline to Rebirth

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Carolyn Whigham stood on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and took in the landscape of tattered brownstones, trash-strewn lots and skinny addicts by the front door of the funeral home that has been in her family for three generations. Then she closed her eyes and a vision of the street in the 1950s took hold, a reverie of mansions, graceful oak trees and the reassuring roar of a bustling industrial city. 
 ''I can see Lawyer Tate, Dr. Shelton, Old Lady Ruffin and all the beautiful buildings,'' Mrs. Whigham said, ticking off the people who once filled the granite-and-marble Victorians. ''It was a gem. For a black family, it was a dream to be living here.''
 In the summer of 1967, the Whighams huddled on their rooftop as rioters burned neighboring buildings; then the Whighams helped bury a dozen victims of the violence. In the decades since, they have witnessed the flight of the professional class and the onslaught of drugs and despair, planning countless funerals for teenagers killed by gunfire and young mothers felled by AIDS. 
 ''To see all that happening to my street, to my city, has been very traumatic,'' Mrs. Whigham, 57, said.
 But now, across the street from where she grew up, workers are laying sod in front of 100 crisp Georgian-style town houses that replaced a forbidding housing project. A few blocks north, a new dormitory for 800 students is to be finished by fall. To the east, the steel bones of a hockey arena are filling the horizon. Throughout Newark, even on the most ragged blocks, new three-family homes are selling for $400,000. 
 ''This city is coming back,'' Mrs. Whigham said. ''It's finally happening, and I believe it's going to happen in my lifetime.''
 After 30 years of decline and a decade of sporadic renewal efforts, the two-mile boulevard through Newark's Central Ward -- known as High Street until 1983 -- is showing signs of progress. So is the entire city.
 More than 2,500 private homes are being built, Barnes & Noble is looking downtown, and hundreds of suburbanites and New Yorkers are moving into the city's first luxury high-rise in a generation. 
 Though these projects began under his predecessor, Sharpe James, Cory A. Booker, Newark's ambitious young mayor, has revved up the momentum since he took office in July. He has made lofty promises to recast his struggling city as a national model for urban revitalization, and dismantled bureaucratic impediments to development. His administration plans to lift the more stringent zoning rules to encourage downtown residential construction, create building trade apprenticeships for jobless young people and develop a municipal loan pool for minority business owners. 
 ''It feels like all the pieces are finally coming together,'' said Dennis M. Bone, president of Verizon New Jersey, one of the few corporations to keep its headquarters here as Newark lost many of its blue-chip employers and almost half its population. 
 Yet Newark faces steep obstacles to prosperity. Real estate taxes are onerous, the public school system is in shambles and any new businesses Mr. Booker may bring in will find a largely unskilled work force: of those 25 and older, 58 percent lack a high school diploma and 9 percent have a bachelor's degree, according to the 2000 census. 
 As it stands, more than three-quarters of the city's 150,000 jobs are held by out-of-towners. For Mr. Booker, already tarnished in the eyes of some as an outsider for his suburban upbringing and criticized for hiring too many aides from New York, the true challenge will be to spread change beyond a few shiny spots in the business district downtown into the struggling neighborhoods.
 ''All my life, the politicians have been calling this place the Renaissance City,'' complained Latonya Edwards, 28, a part-time security guard who is raising three children in a decrepit apartment building on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. ''I think the renaissance is for suburban people who go downtown. If they have their way, people like me would just disappear.'' 
 Even some of Newark's biggest civic boosters worry about outsize expectations after Mr. Booker's public pronouncements of the city's potential. (The mayor, a vegetarian, often talks about luring a Whole Foods market to the city.) And while Newark's overall crime rate dropped last year, homicides recently reached a 10-year high, hardly helping to improve its reputation.
 ''The edge is so thin right now,'' said Alfred C. Koeppe, president of the Newark Alliance, a consortium of business leaders working to improve the economy and schools. ''All it takes is one kid who recently moved here to get shot on the way to the PATH train and it could be all over.'' 
 Still, urban experts say Newark, population 278,000, has an edge over other midsize cities still stumbling from the loss of their manufacturing bedrock. Just 10 miles from Manhattan and surrounded by wealthy suburbs, Newark is blessed with an expanding seaport, an international airport and a skein of highways and commuter rail lines.
 Quietly and with little fanfare, high-tech entrepreneurs have set up shop over the past decade at a 60-acre science park that is growing alongside the city's five colleges and professional schools. In October, the hockey arena is scheduled to join a decade-old performing arts center that has proved successful in drawing visitors to a downtown that otherwise feels like a disused Hollywood set after dusk.
 ''The one thing that New Jersey lacks is a premier city,'' said Thomas K. Wright, executive vice president of the Regional Plan Association, which has helped formulate redevelopment plans for a number of struggling cities in New York's orbit. ''This is Newark's moment to become that city. It's going to happen in the next few years. Or it won't.''
 Directing Mr. Booker's economic development efforts is Stefan Pryor, a friend from Yale Law School who led efforts to revive Lower Manhattan after 9/11. Now, as one of Newark's three deputy mayors, Mr. Pryor has been hawking Newark to national retailers, streamlining the way City Hall doles out licenses and building permits, and trying to create a new Planning Department to replace a politicized, fragmented one that developers say often stymied projects. 
 ''In the past you had to do back flips and jump through rings of fire,'' Mr. Pryor said at a recent Chamber of Commerce breakfast where he gave a presentation of the streamlined permit process. ''This is a new era. We're going to be the new high-integrity folks at City Hall who you can talk to with intelligence.''
 Mr. Pryor, 34, recently moved from Manhattan to an Art Deco tower a few blocks off Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard that has become a highly visible symbol -- and test -- of Newark's aspirations. Vacant for 20 years, the building at Raymond Boulevard and Broad Street is being transformed into 317 apartments, and will feature valet parking, a mod bowling alley and a yoga studio. The average rent for a two-bedroom is $2,500; the building is still under renovation, but half the finished apartments have been rented. 
 A year from now, the landlord, Cogswell Realty Group, plans to break ground nearby on a project that would bring 2,900 units to a stretch of Broad Street now dominated by abandoned department stores. The company sees its markets as college students who currently commute to Newark, young professionals priced out of Manhattan and empty-nesters seeking an urban experience without depleting their savings. 
 ''When we started this 18 months ago, there were plenty of people who thought we wouldn't sign a single lease or that we wouldn't get the rents we're getting,'' Arthur Stern, Cogswell's chief executive, said during a tour of the health club in the Art Deco building. ''I think we've proven everyone wrong.''
 Mr. Pryor was among the first to move in, as much to make a statement about the area's viability as for the five-minute walk to work. Unpacking boxes in his 15th-floor apartment one recent evening, he gazed out at City Hall's gold-leaf dome and the fast-rising arena. Then his eye settled on the darkened 19th-century mercantile buildings in the foreground. ''I'm hoping we can inject these buildings with some life,'' he said. 
 To that end, Mr. Pryor soon plans to ask the City Council to eliminate stringent zoning rules that have made it difficult to get approval to renovate the upper floors of commercial buildings. Another major goal is revamping the city's master plan, which has not been updated in 50 years. In a city with no bookstores and just two supermarkets, he spends most of his days on the phone with retailers and restaurateurs, talking up the untapped spending power of Newark residents.
 Business leaders and politicians alike say such retail -- and residential -- development depends in part on the 50,000 students and teachers whose lives revolve around Seton Hall Law School, Rutgers University, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Essex County College and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. 
 Once largely commuter schools, their academic buildings walled off from the surrounding city, these five institutions have been building furiously, constructing new dormitories that, by the fall semester, will house 4,000 students in and around downtown. 
 ''People don't think of Newark as a college town, but I think that's about to change,'' said Gene A. Vincenti, executive vice provost at Rutgers-Newark, at the school's new $50 million administrative building, part of a $210 million capital improvement plan. 
 Up the hill from Rutgers, in a futuristic, four-story building, a biophysicist was busy working on a new ultraviolet system to treat psoriasis and purify drinking water, while a former telecommunications executive plotted the rollout of software that uses a computer-generated voice to read e-mail messages over the phone. Others in the so-called Newark Innovation Zone were creating facial recognition software for security firms and technologies that can detect biological agents in luggage.
 Started 10 years ago, the zone -- also known as University Heights Science Park -- is one of three technology incubators in the state, with 60 start-ups and scores of lone entrepreneurs who enjoy cheap office space, free business advice and monthly networking lunches. There is a waiting list of several months, so this year organizers plan to build another 100,000-square-foot building, christened the Digital Century Center. A separate stem-cell research center is on the drawing board. 
 The lofty dream, those running the incubator say, is to turn the surrounding area into a high-tech manufacturing zone that could employ thousands of people. ''The idea is to make these things here, and create more than just jobs for a bunch of Ph.D.'s and their secretarial and janitorial support staff,'' said Donald H. Sebastian a vice president of the New Jersey Institute of Technology, the center's main sponsor.
 But with almost a third of Newark's residents living in poverty, and the city's unemployment rate at 10 percent -- more than double New York City's rate and more than double New Jersey's average -- cynicism about such ideas abounds. 
 Ronnie Addy, who said he never finished high school and spent a year in jail for gun possession more than a decade ago, said he would ''love to work in an office'' someday, but has more or less given up looking for a job and survives on public assistance. ''I can't make ends meet flipping burgers and making minimum wage,'' said Mr. Addy, 44.
 An associate professor of management and global business at Rutgers, dt ogilvie, said many of the chronically unemployed here needed the most basic training: how to dress for an interview, how to speak to an employer and how to handle disputes without storming out the door. ''We have plenty of willing workers in Newark,'' he said; ''a lot of them are just not equipped to work.''
 Indeed, down at the waterfront, where the business of unloading and loading cargo has doubled in the past decade, producing about 1,000 new jobs a year, nearly 80 percent of the 28,000 stevedore and truck driving positions are held by people who live outside the city. At Newark Liberty International Airport, the airlines hire hundreds of baggage handlers, flight attendants and reservation agents every month; few are from Newark.
 Mayor Booker insists that City Hall will not ignore the city's poorest residents and frequently says he is trying to make the rehabilitation of former offenders like Mr. Addy a top priority. 
 With 1,500 to 2,000 parolees returning to Newark each year -- and 60 percent of them ending up in handcuffs again within three years, according to city officials -- the Booker administration plans to unveil a program next month that would provide ex-felons with job training and help them expunge their criminal records. 
 During a recent City Hall meeting, when Mr. Pryor gushed about a flood of calls from potential investors, his counterpart in charge of minority economic empowerment, Michelle Thomas, flashed an expression of concern. 
 ''I'm worried people in the Central Ward will be upset if we emphasize downtown housing,'' Ms. Thomas said of the neighborhood that took the most damage from the 1967 riots. ''It's semantic, but people will care and there's potential for a backlash.'' 
 Nodding, Mr. Booker said, ''We don't want to gentrify people out of the city,'' but he added that ''creating a 24/7 community means providing retail and jobs and these will be opportunities for Newark residents.''
 From the antiseptic hush of the high-tech park on its northern tip to the Hotel Riviera, where $10 buys a room for an hour, two miles south, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a jagged montage of Newark's grand history, nightmarish depths and nascent revival.
 Not far from the Riviera, and an abandoned housing project occupied by a small army of squatters, sits Hopewell Baptist Church, a 3,000-seat behemoth known to another generation as Temple B'nai Jeshurun. The Rev. Jason C. Guice struggles to keep the rain from destroying Hopewell's organ and to stop the termites from chewing the cherry-wood pews; last year, the sanctuary's huge Star of David chandelier shattered on the floor. The congregation runs a soup kitchen that feeds 300 people every Saturday, a nursing school for young women and a day care center for their children. 
 ''We haven't really arrived yet, but we're on our way,'' Mr. Guice said of both Newark and his church.
 Mrs. Whigham, the funeral home owner, left Newark a few years ago for Livingston, an affluent suburb nine miles northwest.
 Yes, she said, she has appreciated the tranquillity of sleeping behind windows without bars. But she misses the energy and rich history of her High Street. 
 ''This place is in my blood,'' she said.
 Mrs. Whigham plans to turn one of the four brownstones her family owns on the boulevard into a mortuary-science school. And, this month, she plans to sell her house in Livingston and move back into the apartment above the funeral home. 

The Hard Part
 This is the third article in a series chronicling Mayor Cory A. Booker's first year in Newark City Hall.

ONLINE: Previous articles, and a multimedia walking tour of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard with Clement Price, a local historian:


GRAPHIC: Photos: PAST AND FUTURE -- Looking north on King Boulevard, Georgian-style town houses rise in place of a forbidding project. Beyond is the Krueger-Scott mansion, a rundown relic of the Gilded Age.
CUTTING EDGE -- Looking downtown from University Heights, where a science park also known as the Newark Innovation Zone is a technology incubator.
INTERFAITH TRANSITION -- The Rev. Jason C. Guice of Hopewell Baptist Church, formerly Temple B'nai Jeshurun.
SLATED FOR DEMOLITION -- The boarded-up Brick Towers. Mayor Cory A. Booker moved out of the project in November.
HER STREET -- Carolyn Whigham, whose family funeral home, right rear, is an institution on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
(Image by Sanborn via Google Earth)(pg. B2)
 Krueger-Scott mansion is empty, but new houses are nearby. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart/Map:1. Essex County Courthouse Designed by Cass Gilbert, the architect of New York's Woolworth Tower, the building's rich interior has Tiffany glass skylights and vivid murals.2. St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church The first Greek Orthodox church in the state, this 106-year-old building was once the heart of Newark's Greek community.3. Arts High School opened in 1931. Graduates include Sarah Vaughan, Melba Moore, the saxophonist Wayne Shorter and the tap dancer Savion Glover. Every year 2,000 students compete for 150 slots.4. Cottage Place A mixed-income housing development on a site that had been a drug haven.5. Spruce Street and M.L.K. Blvd. A dangerous intersection that has seen four shootings since October, three of them fatal.6. Riviera Hotel Father Divine, a charismatic religious leader, bought the city's biggest hotel in 1949 for $500,000, a sum that was paid with boxloads of singles and five-dollar bills, according to local lore.Map of Newark highlighting the places listed above and other points of interest. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); CITIES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); TRENDS (70%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (70%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); AIDS & HIV (69%); RIOTS (68%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (64%) Surveys and Series; Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends; Taxation; Education and Schools; Unemployment; Labor

PERSON: RICK PERRY (82%) Andrew Jacobs; Cory A (Mayor) Booker; Sharpe James; Stefan Pryor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



86 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Swears In First Democratic Governor in 16 Years 

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
In a ceremony rich with gestures of openness and symbols of conquering adversity, Deval L. Patrick, the first black governor of Massachusetts, took his oath of office on Thursday. He promised far-reaching changes in attitude and policy and asked people to ''see our stake in each others' dreams and struggles as well as our own, and act on that.'' 
 In the state's first outdoor inauguration, part of four days of events intended to include people across the state, Mr. Patrick, the first Democratic governor here in 16 years, said, ''For a very long time now we have been told that government is bad, that it exists only to serve the powerful and well-connected, that its job is not important enough to be done by anyone competent, let alone committed, and that all of us are on our own.'' 
''Today we join together in common cause,'' he said, ''to lay that fallacy to rest.''
 Mr. Patrick takes over from Mitt Romney, a Republican, who is planning to run for the presidency, and already Mr. Patrick has revealed many positions that oppose Mr. Romney's. The former governor did not attend the inauguration.
 Mr. Patrick has said that he will restore $383.6 million in budget cuts made by Mr. Romney to social services and other programs, that he will reverse the former governor's agreement authorizing the state police to arrest illegal immigrants, and that a Romney-endorsed effort to remove some Massachusetts Turnpike tolls is unrealistic. 
 Mr. Patrick also said he might revoke some of the 200 11th-hour appointments Mr. Romney made to boards and commissions.
 And, while Mr. Romney strongly backed a proposed constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage, Mr. Patrick spoke out strongly against it this week, even as the legislature gave it first-round approval. 
 While the legislature is heavily Democratic in this heavily Roman Catholic state, many Democrats are more conservative than Mr. Patrick on issues like same-sex marriage. He also faces a budget deficit of about $1 billion. And it will not be easy to put into effect the state's new health insurance reform.
 ''I've never seen a governor who has such high expectations on him as Deval Patrick,'' said Jeffrey Berry, a political scientist at Tufts University. ''Democrats regard him as something of a demigod. They expect him to be able to leap tall buildings in a single bound and pay for social services.''
 Paul Watanabe, a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts-Boston, said: ''I think he's going to find that governing is a lot more challenging than being a candidate. And that the demands placed upon him by large numbers of individuals -- a record number of people that voted for him -- are going to be difficult to meet.''
 Mr. Patrick also faces criticism over his inauguration celebrations. While much was inclusive -- the open-air ceremony, a town-meeting-like ''youth inaugural'' for students, and upcoming ceremonies in five other cities -- there was also a gala whose cost was paid for largely by corporate donors, who were allowed to give up to $50,000 each.
 At the inauguration itself, however, on one of the balmiest January days in memory, the tone was full of possibility, pride and humility. In a state where the legacy of busing and segregation still stings, Mr. Patrick, reared in poverty on the South Side of Chicago, took the oath on a Bible given to John Quincy Adams by Africans from the Amistad slave ship whom Adams had helped free.
 Four previous Massachusetts governors were present, as was L. Douglas Wilder, the former governor of Virginia and the only other black since Reconstruction to have been a governor.
 The populist timbre, and the high expectations of Mr. Patrick, were sounded early, with a benediction by Rabbi Jonah Pesner describing the multicultural electorate and the problems of poverty, violence and discrimination.
 ''Behind every face hides so many secrets -- painful secrets of suffering,'' Rabbi Pesner said, urging the governor and the people to create ''a commonwealth rebuilt, repaired and redeemed.''
 Among the crowd was Derward Jacobs, 60, who is disabled and who drove his scooter to the State House because ''I felt like I should be here.''
 George Greenidge Jr., 35, leader of an alliance of black colleges, said, ''Today is a beacon of hope.''
 Mr. Greenidge added that Mr. Patrick had ''re-engaged a constituency that really never was involved in state politics, especially people from lower economic backgrounds.''
 Beth Gilbert, 52, of Norfolk, Mass., acknowledged the steep demands that confront Mr. Patrick, saying, ''When you elect a Republican governor, part of their bargain is they don't really believe that government can solve the people's problems. That's probably what's led to higher expectations here.''
 Mr. Patrick signaled he was aware of the difficulties.
 ''I am an optimist, but not a foolish one,'' he said. ''I see clearly the challenges before us.''
 He added: ''Change is not always comfortable or convenient or welcome. But it is what we hoped for, what we have worked for, what you voted for, and what you shall have.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Deval L. Patrick delivering his inauguration speech in Boston yesterday. Change ''is what you voted for, and what you shall have,'' he said. (Photo by John Tlumacki/The Boston Globe)
Theo McKinney III, a former colleague of the governor's, looking on. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
 Former Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia greeting spectators. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); MARRIAGE (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); POLICE FORCES (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (62%); INSURANCE (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); ARRESTS (50%); RELIGION (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Governors (US); Blacks; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Illegal Immigrants; Marriages; Homosexuality; Constitutional Amendments

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Pam Belluck; Deval L (Gov) Patrick; Mitt (Gov) Romney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts; Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



87 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 110TH CONGRESS: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, a Choice: Forward or Reverse?

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Democrats realized their political and legislative dream Thursday. Now they must face reality. 
 As they take control of the House and Senate, members of the new majority must reconcile diverse ideological factions within their ranks and make a fundamental choice. They can spend their energy trying to reverse what they see as the flaws of the Bush administration and a dozen years in which conservative philosophy dominated Congress. Or they can accept the rightward tilt of that period and grudgingly concede that big tax cuts, deregulation, restrictions on abortion and other Republican-inspired changes are now a permanent part of the legislative framework.
The competing drives were on display amid the constitutional hoopla Thursday and the emotion surrounding Representative Nancy Pelosi's election as speaker, a position filled until now by the likes of Sam Rayburn, Joseph Cannon and Nicholas Longworth -- men whose names adorn nearby House office buildings. ''We have broken the marble ceiling,'' Mrs. Pelosi said after she was handed the gavel. 
 In a meeting with the Congressional Black Caucus earlier in the day, Mrs. Pelosi made her own allusions to the competing tugs on Democrats, noting the party was rooted in its traditions but not hostage to the past. She promised a new direction ''for all the people, not just the privileged few,'' a reflection of the leadership's political and policy calculation that Democrats need to champion the average guy.
 ''The agenda we have is about restoring economic security to a very vulnerable middle class,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Caucus. ''The real activity will be in those areas.''
 Yet many Democrats contend that President Bush and the Republican-led Congress that was his partner moved the dial too far to the right in many cases. And they believe it will be the work of Democrats to make a significant course correction.
 ''I think there are a lot of things the people of America want changed,'' said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, the new chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a tough critic of some Bush policies.
 Mr. Leahy and others made clear that the new direction had to begin with American policy in Iraq.
 But their domestic legislative agenda suggests that they are picking selected fights rather than going for wholesale change. On the economy, they will move swiftly to increase the minimum wage. On social policy, they will challenge Mr. Bush by calling for expanded stem cell research. They will try to pass legislation increasing college aid for the middle class. All of those issues have the twin advantages of broad popular appeal tied to measurable economic impact on individuals.
 But Democrats are in no rush to engage in a fight with Mr. Bush over the ideological centerpiece of his domestic policy, his tax cuts. And they have showed no inclination to wade back into the abortion issue, despite its potency among many of their supporters.
 ''We have to keep our eye on the average American family and sort of push aside the interest groups left, right and center,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''The world has changed, and it demands new solutions, not the old Democrat and Republican nostrums.''
 But there is no dispute that Mr. Bush's legislative and executive record will get a microscopic examination via a renewed emphasis on oversight, a Congressional function Democrats say was all but abandoned in recent years. And the results of those inquiries could determine what policies Democrats try to unravel if they uncover a strong case against them.
 ''The Bush administration has passed an entire architecture of laws that are going to be reviewed,'' said Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, one of the most liberal members of the House.
 Republicans are waiting to see what develops, uncertain if Democrats sincerely want to join hands and produce some consensus on public policy. Or, as one senior Republican asked, will Democrats hostile to the Bush administration be more like the scorpion in the fable with the frog, unable to resist the urge to sting even if they hurt themselves?
 Democrats acknowledge that with their minuscule majority in the Senate and one in the House that is not much larger, they lack the political muscle to go too far in reversing Bush policy even if that was their chief goal. And they already have their hands full with delivering on their own ambitious legislative agenda, following through on their pledges of bipartisanship and ethics overhaul and avoiding anything that costs the party its chance at the White House in 2008.
 Leading Democrats say their best direction is forward, concentrating on establishing a new party legacy rather than obsessing with the perceived failings of Republican rule. The test for the party's newly empowered leadership and the Congressional membership will be whether they can stick to that path.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TAX LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); ABORTION (55%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); PATRICK LEAHY (59%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



88 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: After Blocking Tower, Neighbors Recoil at Void in Hell's Kitchen

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Community groups in Hell's Kitchen fought one of the city's most powerful developers to a standstill a year ago, blocking his attempt to build a 60-story tower over a new home for Cirque du Soleil. 
 Since then, neighbors have complained that the rubble-strewn, 1.5-acre site on 42nd Street, between Dyer and 10th Avenues, has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes in the summer and cockroaches, rats and other vermin year-round. 
In the latest skirmish, Fred Papert, who built Theater Row nearby, filed a lawsuit yesterday against the developer, Stephen M. Ross, chief executive of Related Companies, saying the site had become an eyesore. 
 Mr. Ross appears to be considering a new plan for the site, possibly with a hotel, luxury apartments and shops. The plan also includes two small theaters that community groups and leaders want.
 After meeting with elected officials in December to discuss complaints about the site, the developer installed floodlights along the blue construction fence on 42nd Street and periodically picked up the wind-swept garbage around the parcel. 
 But the problem has gotten to the point where it is cutting into business, said Glenn Isaacs, the manager of the Travel Inn, west of Related's site, and the owner of the Theater Row Diner, at Dyer Avenue and 42nd Street. ''Our hotel guests are coming back to the hotel saying it's dangerous,'' Mr. Isaacs said. ''There's rats, mice, garbage all over the place.''
 Yesterday, a worker was pumping the stagnant rainwater that gathers in an eight-foot-deep hole on the site into a nearby sewer drain. The city's health and buildings departments found a series of violations last year relating to water that accumulates every time it rains. Some residents call the site ''Lake Related.'' 
 Mr. Papert's lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, involves more than a dollop of revenge from a figure who was Mr. Ross's ally in acquiring the parcel. It seeks $500,000 in damages and says that the health and safety conditions at the Related site, which sits ''at the epicenter of a renewed and thriving neighborhood,'' are hurting the whole community and undermining property values. 
 A new plan could be in the works for the site. According to a real estate executive who has been briefed on the developer's plans, Related wants to form a joint venture with an unnamed hotel operator to build a 60-story, one-million-square-foot tower. The tower, with a hotel and luxury apartments at the top, would sit above shops, an Equinox gym and a couple of small theaters.
 But Jeff T. Blau, the president of Related, said ''there's no deal at the moment.'' 
 He added, ''We're exploring everything, given the Cirque deal not happening.'' 
 He said he had not seen the lawsuit and could not comment. 
 The city and the community wanted Related to replace the two Off Broadway theaters it had demolished. ''Nothing would make us happier than if Related did what they originally promised us they would do,'' said Mr. Papert, president of the 42nd Street Development Corporation. ''The minute we know it's going to happen, we'll withdraw the lawsuit.''
 Therein lies the story.
 In 2004, Related was one of two developers vying for the site. Mr. Papert, who owned a minority interest in the land, helped steer the deal to Related. In the 1980s, Mr. Papert and his nonprofit group replaced several massage parlors on 42nd Street between Ninth and Dyer Avenues with Theater Row, a collection of small Off Broadway theaters. But they were unable to do the same thing on the next block.
 Mr. Papert said he helped Related buy the land for about $107 million, because he understood that the developer would find a new home for the theaters in his proposed tower. Indeed, Related talked to city officials about an apartment building that would house two small theaters and a performance space for classical musicians.
 Related, in turn, would have been able to take advantage of a city zoning regulation, a ''theater bonus,'' to build a taller tower than would have normally been allowed. But the company ultimately proposed to build an 1,800-seat theater for Cirque du Soleil, the human circus extravaganza. That plan was opposed by officials who argued that the bonus was intended to nurture struggling theater companies, not an economic blockbuster like Cirque.
 The city's Planning Department ruled last February that the project did not qualify for a bonus. Related then put the parcel up for sale, asking about $350 million. But no one was willing to go that high. 
 Marisa Redanty, president of the tenants' association at Manhattan Plaza, which sits across 42nd Street from the site, said yesterday that Mr. Papert's lawsuit was premature. But, she added, the company is trying to clean up the area.
 ''If they do not continue to make the site more community-friendly, then all options are open,'' Ms. Redanty said. ''And if they give us the theaters, I'm happy as a clam.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker yesterday at a lot in Hell's Kitchen that was to be the site of a 60-story tower. Neighbors say the site has become an eyesore and a breeding ground for vermin. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); RODENTS (89%); DAMAGES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) Building (Construction); Theaters (Buildings); Theater; Suits and Litigation; Area Planning and Renewal; Rats

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Related Companies; Cirque Du Soleil

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Fred Papert; Stephen M Ross

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



89 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Name A New General To Oversee Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and THOM SHANKER; David E. Sanger and Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush has decided to name Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus as the top American military commander in Iraq, part of a broad revamping of the military team that will carry out the administration's new Iraq strategy, administration officials said Thursday.
 In addition to the promotion of General Petraeus, who will replace Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the choice to succeed Gen. John P. Abizaid as the head of the Central Command is expected to be Adm. William J. Fallon, who is the top American military officer in the Pacific, officials said.
The changes are being made as the White House is considering an option to increase American combat power in Baghdad by five brigades as well as adding two battalions of reinforcements to the volatile province of Anbar in western Iraq.
 Mr. Bush, who said Thursday that he would present details of his overall strategy for Iraq next week, and several top aides held a video teleconference on Thursday, speaking with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq and his top deputies about plans to add forces in the capital and other matters. The session lasted roughly an hour and 45 minutes. 
 ''I said that 'You show the will, we will help you,' '' Mr. Bush told reporters. 
 Echoing the comments of both military and political advisers in recent weeks, he added, ''One thing is for certain: I will want to make sure that the mission is clear and specific and can be accomplished.''
 Senior administration officials said that the choice of General Petraeus was part of a broader effort to change almost all of the top American officials in Iraq as Mr. Bush changes his strategy there. 
 ''The idea is to put the whole new team in at roughly the same time, and send some clear messages that we are trying a new approach,'' a senior administration official said Thursday.
 In addition to the military changes, Mr. Bush intends to appoint the ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, as the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, a senior administration official said Thursday. 
 ''It was clearly time to move the players around on the field,'' said the senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because Mr. Bush had yet to announce the changes. ''This helps the president to make the case that this is a fresh start.''
 Admiral Fallon would be the first Navy officer to serve as the senior officer of the Central Command, which is managing simultaneous ground wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Admiral Fallon is regarded within the military as one of its stronger regional combat commanders, and his possible appointment also reflects a greater emphasis on countering Iranian power, a mission that relies heavily on naval forces and combat airpower to project American influence in the Persian Gulf.
 General Petraeus, who is now the head of the Army's Combined Arms Center at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., helped oversee the drafting of the military's comprehensive new manual on counterinsurgency. He has served two previous tours in Iraq, and some former officers say he sees the need for additional troops in Baghdad.
 He will replace General Casey, whose plan for troop reductions in Iraq faltered last year in the face of escalating sectarian strife and who initially expressed public wariness about any short-term increase in troops in Iraq, a move that is now a leading option under consideration by the White House.
 The departures of both General Casey and General Abizaid were expected, though in General Casey's case it appears to have been moved up several months from the originally anticipated shift in spring or summer. General Abizaid's tour had already been extended for a full year beyond the typical two-year stint, and he has announced that he will retire soon.
 The troop increase option under discussion would focus on improving security in Baghdad. Under this approach, two Army combat brigades would be sent to the capital during the first phase of the operation. A combat brigade generally consists of about 3,500 soldiers. At the same time, a third brigade would be positioned in Kuwait as a reserve, and two more brigades would be on call in the United States.
 The expectation is that these three brigades would eventually be sent to Baghdad as well, though the president would have the option to limit the reinforcements. Part of the increase could be achieved by holding some units past their currently scheduled return home.
 Scaling up by five brigades would more than double the number of American combat troops involved in security operations in the Iraqi capital. The emphasis on Baghdad reflects the view that stability in the capital is a precondition for any broader effort to bring calm to the whole country. It is also a recognition that the administration sees sectarian violence as a greater threat to Iraq's stability than the Sunni Arab insurgency.
 While Baghdad is the principal focus, the option also provides for sending two battalions of reinforcements to Anbar, where overstretched Marine and Army forces have been battling Sunni Arab insurgents. A basic battalion generally consists of 1,200 troops.
 One issue under discussion is how to mesh the emerging American strategy with the Iraqis' capabilities. Bush administration officials say they want the increase in American troops to be paralleled by a considerable rise in the number of functional Iraqi troops. But the Iraqis failed in the summer to send all the reinforcements that had been requested, and some Iraqi security forces, particularly the police, have been infiltrated by militias.
 Another point of contention is that some senior aides to Mr. Maliki have been notably unenthusiastic about an increase in American troops in Baghdad. During his meeting with Mr. Bush in Jordan in November, Mr. Maliki presented a plan that would shift most Americans to the periphery of Baghdad so they could concentrate on fighting Sunni insurgents while the Shiite-dominated Iraqi government asserted more control over the capital. That has left some American officials wondering whether the Maliki government was making a legitimate bid to exercise sovereignty or is committed to a sectarian Shiite agenda.
 Bush administration officials believe that their new Iraqi strategy must involve political steps toward reconciliation and reconstruction programs to produce jobs.
 In their teleconference, Mr. Bush and Mr. Maliki discussed the Iraqi government's efforts at political reconciliation and the Iraqi prime minister's vows to rein in militias, the pace of which American officials have found painfully slow. Discussing the execution of Saddam Hussein, Mr. Bush said the Maliki government was right to investigate the circumstances surrounding the hanging. 
 General Petraeus participated in the initial invasion of Iraq as the commander of the 101st Airborne Division. The division fought its way toward Baghdad and was later sent to Mosul in northern Iraq, where the general focused on political and economic reconstruction efforts.
 ''We are in a race to win over the people,'' read a sign in his Mosul headquarters. ''What have you and your element done today to contribute to victory?''
 General Petraeus did a second tour in Iraq in which he oversaw the efforts to train the Iraqi Army. At his current post at Fort Leavenworth, he has been involved in the push to change the United States Army's training and education to emphasize counterinsurgency operations.
 Jack Keane, the retired Army general who served as vice chief of the Army, called General Petraeus an ''imaginative commander who is experienced and knows how to deal with irregular warfare,'' as the Army refers to insurgencies.
 The Iraq commander post is considered a four-star general's command, a promotion that would add a star to General Petraeus's shoulder.
 Officials also said Admiral Fallon received a persuasive recommendation from the Joint Chiefs as one of the military's stronger commanders of a geographic theater, with his current command including the challenges of North Korea and China.
 In that capacity, he also took the unusual and punitive move in December of canceling a large, annual field exercise with the Philippines over a local judge's failure to honor the bilateral treaty governing protections for American military personnel. The judge refused to honor the agreement's rule that American military personnel remain in American custody pending final appeal of all criminal proceedings against them, and ordered a marine convicted of rape held in a local jail even though the case was on appeal.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus (pg. A1)
Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus in Iraq in 2004. He will replace Gen. George W. Casey Jr., whose plan for troop reductions has faltered. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)
 Adm. William J. Fallon is likely to be head of the Central Command. (Photo by Bazuki Muhammad/Reuters)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); NAVIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (92%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%) Michael R Gordon; Thom Shanker; David H (Lt Gen) Petraeus; George W Jr (Gen) Casey; John P (Gen) Abizaid; William J (Adm) Fallon; George W (Pres) Bush; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (70%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (58%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Anbar Province (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



90 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Bush Shakes Up Iraq Team As Part of New War Plan
President Bush has decided to name Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus as the top American military commander in Iraq, part of a broad revamping of the military team that will carry out the administration's new Iraq strategy, administration officials said. A1

President Bush intends to name Zalmay Khalilzad, the Afghan-born diplomat who has been ambassador to Iraq for the past 21 months, to be the new envoy to the United Nations, an administration official said. 
 A6

Colleagues and friends of John D. Negroponte said he agreed to trade his cabinet-level job as the nation's first director of national intelligence for a subcabinet post as deputy secretary of state because he felt miscast in the role and longed to be back in the thick of policy making. A1

Israel Raid Sours Peace Talk
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel met President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in an effort to give momentum to the Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations. But the meeting was overshadowed by an Israeli military raid in the West Bank in which four Palestinians were killed. A6

Violence Spreads in Somalia
Days after Ethiopian-led troops helped rout Islamist forces in Somalia and install a new government in the capital, antigovernment attacks are raising security concerns. But despite the violence, Somalia's transitional government is moving to consolidate its grip on power. A9

NATIONAL A11-14

Democrats Take Control; Pelosi Becomes Speaker
In a day of transition and pageantry, exultant Democrats took control of both houses of Congress for the first time in a dozen years and elected the first woman to be speaker of the House. A1

Study on Church Embezzlement
A survey by researchers at Villanova University has found that 85 percent of Roman Catholic dioceses that responded had discovered embezzlement of church money in the last five years. A11

White House Counsel Resigns
Harriet E. Miers, President Bush's longtime confidante and onetime Supreme Court nominee, has resigned as White House counsel, officials announced. A14

New Massachusetts Governor
In a ceremony rich with gestures of openness and symbols of conquering adversity, Deval L. Patrick, the first black governor of Massachusetts, took the oath of office. A11

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Meningitis Scare in Schools
More than 20,000 Rhode Island students were told to stay home from school as officials investigated whether a case of an elementary school student hospitalized with meningitis was related to an outbreak of encephalitis that killed a second grader. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Along a Newark Street, Signs of Urban Renewal
A two-mile boulevard through Newark's Central Ward is showing signs of progress six months after Mayor Cory A. Booker took office with lofty promises to recast his struggling city as a national model for urban revitalization. Yet Newark faces steep obstacles to prosperity. A1

Under Arrest, and Talkative
Statements given by defendants in New York City courts, almost always damaging, are a window into the criminal justice process. Notwithstanding the constitutional right to remain silent, many people arrested talk freely. A1

Neediest Cases B5

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Activists Flex New Muscles
For decades, activist shareholders have been a Wall Street sideshow. Today, it seems as if activists have taken the center ring. One of them, Ralph V. Whitworth, pressed Home Depot's board to oust Robert L. Nardelli, its chief executive. C1

Business Digest C2

OBITUARIES B7

Vincent Sardi Jr.
The owner and manager of Sardi's restaurant, his father's theater-district landmark, he was 91. B7

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Mr. Negroponte's newest job; lagging judicial pay; tax cuts and the minimum wage; rethinking the death penalty.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E28
Public Lives B4
TV Listings E38
Weather A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (84%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); RELIGION (67%); MENINGITIS (64%); JUDGES (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); GOVERNORS (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (58%); DEVAL PATRICK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); SOMALIA (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007



91 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: City Backs Union Wages In Tax-Break Buildings

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration said this week that it planned to require many developers who construct apartment buildings under a popular tax break to pay the superintendents and janitors the prevailing wage, essentially a union-level wage of $18 an hour and health benefits. 
 During negotiations to overhaul the tax breaks, City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn urged the administration to adopt the wage policy. The tax benefits are intended to induce developers to build tens of thousands of apartments for low- and moderate-income families. 
The Council voted last month to revise the tax breaks, expanding the number of places in the city where developers must provide at least one-fifth of the apartments for people who are not high-income earners.
 The city's main union of janitors, doormen and superintendents, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, had pressed the Council and the mayor to adopt a prevailing-wage requirement.
 Mike Fishman, Local 32BJ's president, praised the revised tax break and the wage requirement, saying the moves would create affordable housing and assure a living wage for apartment building workers.
 Shaun Donovan, the city's commissioner of housing preservation and development, sent Speaker Quinn a letter on Tuesday saying the Bloomberg administration would require that the prevailing wage be paid to building-service workers in larger apartment buildings constructed under the tax-break program, known as 421-a.
 ''We're primarily in the business of creating affordable housing, and we want to make sure the economics will work in terms of affordable housing,'' said Neill Coleman, a Housing Preservation and Development Department spokesman.
 City officials predict that over the next decade 20,000 housing units will be built with the revised incentive. 
 Officials of Local 32BJ, which has more than 70,000 members, estimate that the buildings developed under the break in the next decade will employ 2,000 service workers.
 Unions often push for wage provisions not just to raise wages for workers in the new buildings but also to make sure that union-level pay is not undercut. And once owners have to pay the prevailing wage they are often less likely to try to stop workers from joining the union.
 Mr. Donovan said developers who used the tax breaks would have to pay prevailing wages only in buildings with at least 75 units in neighborhoods in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens where real estate development is strong and in buildings with at least 150 units in the rest of the city. The local estimates that more than three-quarters of new buildings with full-time staffs will be covered by the wage provision.
 Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said the prevailing-wage policy was quite likely to push up pay for building-service workers in the other four boroughs.
 ''What it comes down to, you build a condo project and you sell those condos to purchasers, and the city has made a decision for those purchasers that they're going to have to pay a prevailing wage,'' Mr. Spinola said. ''I think the government should let owners of their condos decide how much they want to pay.''
 Paul Sonn, a lawyer with the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law, praised the Bloomberg administration's decision, saying, ''It's important to use economic development programs to promote living-wage jobs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); FAMILY (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%) Building Service Employees; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Labor

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%) Service Employees International Union

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



92 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Is Strong, Surprising Economists

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Job growth was brisk last month as businesses added to their payrolls with surprising confidence, further evidence that the economy is not likely to slip into a recession.
 This growth helped both the employed and the unemployed. The prospects for working Americans strengthened as wages for most workers climbed at a steady clip. Those looking for a job last month found a more welcoming job market, and the amount of time they spent out of work dropped considerably.
The national unemployment rate held steady at a low 4.5 percent. 
 Such strong numbers, reported yesterday in the government's monthly survey of households and businesses, came as a surprise to many economists, who expected the slowing economy to pressure employers to rein in hiring. 
 The report also came just two days after an employment survey from a private statistics firm suggested that businesses had shed 40,000 jobs last month.
 ''Such weakness as we have seen in the job market has been quite narrowly confined to those sectors immediately affected, like construction and manufacturing,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for Global Insight. ''It really does help alleviate fears of a cumulative downturn spreading from housing and pulling everything down.''
 The report dashed cold water on those who were expecting the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates anytime soon. Investors, who have been counting on a rate cut by the central bank sometime in the first half of the year, bid stocks lower on the news and sent the bond market reeling. On Wall Street, stocks had their worst day since the end of November.
 The Labor Department reported that employment outside the farming sector grew by 167,000 jobs in December, seasonally adjusted -- more than enough to absorb natural growth in the work force. In another sign of just how strong the job market has been, the figures for October and November were revised to show that businesses hired more employees than the government first thought.
 With the housing market in a slump, builders eliminated 3,000 jobs in December, after cutting substantially more in October and November. And economists said that had it not been for unseasonably warm weather, builders probably would have eliminated even more workers. 
 Downsizing in the American auto industry helped contribute to an overall decline in manufacturing jobs last month. For the year, manufacturers shed a net 72,000 jobs.
 Retailers, too, shrunk their payrolls last month, reflecting a weak holiday shopping season. Home-improvement supply stores, clothing stores and sporting goods stores led the industry in jobs cut.
 But the services sector of the economy showed considerable strength. Professional and business services -- companies that offer things like administrative support, computer software design and waste management -- added a net 50,000 jobs last month. Health care providers added 31,000 new jobs, and so did hospitality businesses like restaurants and bars. 
 In all, the largest percentage of the population since September 2001 was employed in December. The employment-population ratio edged up a tenth of a percentage point, to 63.4 percent. 
 ''You want to see folks who are sitting on the sidelines able to come in and find work,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute. ''You've had a really important expansion in labor force, in particular by people who were waiting for jobs and wages to heat up a bit.''
 Not only are more Americans working, but they are being paid more for it. Average wages have been outpacing inflation by enough of a margin in recent months that workers have seen some of the biggest real gains in their paychecks this decade. 
 In December, that trend appeared to continue as the average hourly earning for a worker in a nonmanagerial position climbed 8 cents, to $17.04. That was a 4.2 percent gain compared with December 2005, and it matched November's rise, which was the highest in more than five years. It has not topped that rate in more than six years.
 Some recent evidence had suggested that wage gains were beginning to taper off, but yesterday's Labor Department statistics showed that workers continued to enjoy the benefits of a strong labor market. 
 ''If you want a signal of what the labor market looks like, see if employers are paying more,'' said Drew Mathus, an economist with Lehman Brothers.
 It appears that employers are giving their workers raises because tightness in the labor market demands it. The report is not likely to put any pressure on the Federal Reserve to ease interest rates .
 ''The Fed has got to be pleased with these numbers,'' said Edward Yardeni, chief investment strategist with Oak Associates, a money management firm in Akron, Ohio. ''Interest rates are where they should be.''

Jobless Rate Falls in Canada
By The New York Times

 OTTAWA, Jan. 5 -- Canada's unemployment rate fell to a 30-year low of 6.1 percent as employers added 62,000 jobs last month, Statistics Canada said on Friday. 
 The government agency said that during all of 2006, employment rose by 2.1 percent, its strongest increase since 2002. 
 Much of the growth came in Alberta, where energy production has created labor shortages for oil and gas projects. Employment there rose by 6 percent, the most in 26 years. 
 The agency said that 7 of Canada's 10 provinces reached record high employment rates during 2006. 
 It estimates that about 80 percent of the new jobs created last year were full-time positions. 
 The job growth, however, did not extend to every sector. Manufacturing was down by 2.7 percent and what the agency calls the ''information, culture and recreational services'' sector also experienced job losses, particularly in British Columbia. That sector includes tourism which, like export-related manufacturing, is being squeezed by the high value of the Canadian dollar.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in December''Unemployment rateBY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteDEC: 4.0%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2BlackDEC: 8.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.9Hispanic*DEC: 4.91-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -1.1AsianDEC: 3.2%**1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.81-YEAR CHANGE: -0.8Teenagers (16-19)DEC: 15.21-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT (In weeks)AverageDEC: 15.91-MONTH CHANGE: -2.5%1-YEAR CHANGE: -8.6%MedianDEC: 7.31-MONTH CHANGE: -11.01-YEAR CHANGE: -14.1SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedDEC: 63.4%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.6Labor force (workers and unemployed)DEC: 66.41-MONTH CHANGE: -0.21-YEAR CHANGE: +0.4'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions)Working part time, but want full-time workDEC: 4.21-MONTH CHANGE: +1.2%1-YEAR CHANGE: -2.4%People who currently want a job***DEC: +4.1**1-MONTH CHANGE: -7.91-YEAR CHANGE: -14.3UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolDEC: 6.6%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.7High schoolDEC: 4.31-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Some collegeDEC: 3.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5Bachelor's or higherDEC: 1.91-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3Graph tracks unemployment rate last year.EmploymentAVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersDEC: $577.661-MONTH CHANGE: +0.51-YEAR CHANGE: +4.0%BY TYPE OF WORK (In millions)NonfarmDEC: 136.21-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.4%GoodsDEC: 22.31-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.1ServicesDEC: 113.91-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: +1.6AgricultureDEC: 2.31-MONTH CHANGE: +5.41-YEAR CHANGE: +7.3Graph tracks employment rate (nonfarm payroll, 12-month change) for last year.Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.**Not seasonally adjusted.***People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BONDS (75%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); RETAILERS (64%); RESTAURANTS (63%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (60%); HEALTH CARE (60%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



93 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Encouraging More Reality In Economics 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The annual meeting of the American Economic Association, which opened here on Friday, is usually a pretty esoteric affair.
 But this year it could resonate much more broadly as the departing president of the organization, which represents most of the nation's academic economists, tries to push prevailing economic theory further away from the free market approach that has generally held sway for the last four decades.
The protagonist in this drama is George A. Akerlof, a Nobel laureate, who is using the same platform that the late Milton Friedman adopted in 1968. As president of the A.E.A. back then, Friedman laid out new theoretical justifications for a market system that he argued performs most favorably for nearly everyone when the government avoids tinkering with its operation.
 The hundreds of economists who listened that day to Mr. Friedman's memorable speech did not immediately embrace his ideas. Keynesian economics, with a big role for government, still held sway. 
 But over time the Friedman approach took hold, eventually having profound effects on politics and government policy far beyond the ivory tower. This was partly because of Mr. Friedman's insistent, larger-than-life personality, and partly because Keynesian economics failed to adequately explain and respond to the simultaneous outbreak of higher inflation and rising unemployment that emerged in the 1970s. 
 Mr. Akerlof's style, in contrast, is more diffident and modest. But he has already contributed significantly to a revamping of the economic theory that Mr. Friedman championed. Now, at 66, he is hoping to spread that debate by taking on some of the profession's most sacred cows.
 And he is doing so at the moment when income inequality, more concentrated wealth and upheavals from expanded globalization are straining faith in a relatively unfettered market system.
 ''I am trying to effect a return to sensible economics,'' Mr. Akerlof said in an interview. ''And what is sensible economics? It is very pragmatic. You think about problems in the world and you ask: can government do something about that? At the same time, you maintain your skepticism that government is often inefficient.''
 This challenge is not from some outsider in economics. Mr. Akerlof -- educated at Yale and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and currently a professor at the University of California, Berkeley -- is at the heart of the academic establishment. His wife, Janet Yellen, a top economist in the Clinton administration, is president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Their son, Robert, is a Ph.D. candidate in economics at Harvard. 
 The stakes are considerable. Keynesians, for example, argued that the government could use changes in taxes and spending to help push the economy to full employment without running the risk of excessive inflation. Friedman, by contrast, described a ''natural rate'' of unemployment below which the nation could not go without causing wages and prices to spiral upward.
 In the text of his speech to be delivered on Saturday afternoon, Mr. Akerlof argues that the Friedman approach is based on false assumptions about human behavior. 
 For example, he says, people don't automatically insist on raises that keep their pay on par with inflation. They often are happy with smaller raises, considering them a compliment from the boss for valued work.
 That makes pressure for higher pay less inflationary than the Friedman approach would assume. 
 A result, Mr. Akerlof says, is misleading theory and misguided policy. 
 Mr. Akerlof is facing considerable criticism for his view that standard economics leaves out too much actual human motivation. What Mr. Akerlof sees as missing content, Mark Gertler, a New York University economist, describes as ''frictions'' that distort accurate theory.
 ''What Akerlof is doing is stepping out of line,'' said Mr. Gertler, who did research with Ben S. Bernanke before Mr. Bernanke became chairman of the Federal Reserve. ''A lot of people are correctly taking rational behavior as a baseline and are adding frictions, such as constraints on borrowing, that can lead to temporarily inefficient markets.'' 
 More than most economists, Mr. Akerlof goes far afield to gather information that he considers to be played down or ignored in ways that leave mainstream economics divorced from real life.
 In his speech, he encourages others to follow his lead, rejecting the focus on what he calls ''parsimonious modeling'' inspired by Friedman. Everyday experience and observation must be returned to a prominent place in the profession, he argues.
 ''The early Keynesians got a great deal of the workings of the economic system right in ways that are now denied,'' Mr. Akerlof said in a study newly posted on the Internet that closely tracks the text of his speech. ''They based their models, as Keynes put it, on 'our knowledge of human nature and from the detailed facts of experience.' ''
 A lot of what Mr. Akerlof advocates in his speech is already under way, with Mr. Akerlof himself a major contributor. He shared a Nobel in economics in 2001 for his work on imperfect information, concluding, for example, that economic outcomes are altered when a used-car salesman knows more about the condition of a vehicle he is selling than the buyer. It was an imbalance that helped to produce state ''lemon laws'' that protect buyers.
 He was an early participant in behavioral economics, another assault on the rational, fully-informed behavior that Mr. Friedman counted on to make markets work efficiently without regulation or intervention.
 People often do not behave rationally, the behaviorists found in their experiments. Most do not bother to sign up for a voluntary 401(k) plan, for example, but do not pull out of such a plan if an employer signs them up automatically.
 Now Mr. Akerlof is taking a big step on his own. His speech is based on more than a year of research, much of it done with Rachel Kranton, a University of Maryland economist. They are trying to incorporate into theory, as Keynes once did, the great variety of ''norms'' that determine human behavior. 
 What Mr. Akerlof is trying to do, with Ms. Kranton's help, is to reflect the variety of motivations that come from the sense people have of ''what they are and how they should behave,'' as Ms. Kranton put it. 
 Among the examples they cite:
 A teacher in good standing among the parents of her students puts the preservation of that reputation ahead of attempts to maximize her pay.
 A change in income will permanently alter a worker's spending, a view that challenges the more common belief that spending matches a worker's lifetime income and savings, evening out over time.
 Workers resist wage cuts even when unemployment is rising, despite standard theory that they will accept less pay to save their jobs. 
 The variations in norms and behavior are numerous and Mr. Akerlof, in his speech, calls on economists to incorporate this diversity into standard economic theory.
 ''If there is a difference between real behavior and behavior derived from abstract preferences, New Classical economics has no way to pick up those preferences,'' Mr. Akerlof asserts. ''A macroeconomics that incorporates observations regarding how people think they should behave combines the best of the two approaches.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); POLITICS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Economics

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%) American Economic Assn

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

PERSON: George A Akerlof; Milton Friedman; Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



94 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; The Land of Rising Conservation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Japan Offers a Lesson in Using Technology to Reduce Energy Consumption

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
In many countries, higher oil prices have hurt pocketbooks and led to worries about economic slowdowns. But here in Japan, Kiminobu Kimura, an architect, says he has not felt the pinch. In fact, his monthly energy bill is lower than a year ago. 
 A reason is his new home fuel cell, a machine as large and quiet as a filing cabinet that sits in front of his house and turns hydrogen into electricity and cold water into hot -- at a fraction of regular utility costs. But even with the futuristic device, which is available for now only in Japan, Mr. Kimura has not let up on the other shortcuts that leave him unscathed by last year's oil squeeze.
Energy-efficient appliances abound in the many corners of his cramped home. There is the refrigerator that beeps when left open and the dishwasher that is compact enough to sit on the kitchen counter. In some homes, room heaters have a sensor that directs heat only toward occupants; there are ''energy navigators'' that track a home's energy use. 
 And then Mr. Kimura, 48, says there are the little things that his family of four does to squeeze fuel bills, like reusing warm bath water to wash laundry and bicycling to buy groceries. 
 ''It's not just technology, it's a whole mind-set,'' said Hitoshi Ikuma, a specialist in energy issues at the Japan Research Institute. ''Energy conservation is almost an obsession here among government, companies, regular citizens, everyone.'' 
 Japan is the most energy-efficient developed country on earth, according to most specialists, who say it is much better prepared than the United States to prosper in an era of higher global energy prices. And if there is any lesson that Japan can offer to Americans, they say, it is that there is no one fix-all solution to living with oil above $50 a barrel. 
 Rather, as Mr. Kimura shows, it is a combination of many things, from the most advanced technologies to the simplest frugality in everyday life -- and an obsession with saving energy that keeps his family huddled in a single heated room during winter. 
 Japan tops most global comparisons of energy efficiency in wealthy nations. Its population and economy are each about 40 percent as large as that of the United States, yet in 2004 it consumed less than a quarter as much energy as America did, according to the International Energy Agency, which is based in Paris. 
 That means Japan consumed the energy equivalent of 2.8 million tons of oil per person in 2004, in contrast to 5.4 million tons per American. Germany, another energy-conscious country, used 3.2 million tons per person. On other measures, like household electricity use, Japan is also much lower.
 Japan's obsession with conservation stems from an acute sense of insecurity in a resource-poor nation that imports most its energy from the volatile Middle East, a fact driven home here by the 1970s shocks. The guiding hand of government has also played a role, forcing households and companies to conserve by raising the cost of gasoline and electricity far above global levels. Taxes and price controls make a gallon of gasoline in Japan currently cost about $5.20, twice America's more market-based prices.
 The government in turn has used these tax revenues to help Japan seize the lead in renewable energies like solar power, and more recently home fuel cells. One way has been a subsidy of about $51,000 for each home fuel cell. This allowed Mr. Kimura to buy his cell last year for about $9,000, far below production cost. His cell, which generates one kilowatt per hour, provides just under half of his household's electricity, and has cut his electricity bill by the same amount, he said.
 The device works by converting natural gas into hydrogen, which the fuel cell then uses to generate electricity. Heat released by the process is used to warm water. 
 The first two fuel cells were installed in the prime minister's residence in April 2005. Since then, some 1,300 have been sold, according to the trade ministry. The ministry forecasts that as sales pick up, production cost will fall to about $5,000 by decade's end. Experts say that Japan is far more willing to embrace new technologies than the United States, where opposition to hydrogen storage tanks in Tarrytown, N.Y., forced General Motors to scrap an experimental filling station for fuel-cell cars last year. 
 Higher energy prices have also created strong domestic demand in Japan for more conventional and new energy-saving products of all sorts. That has spurred the invention and development of things like low-energy washing machines and televisions and high-mileage cars and hybrid vehicles, experts say. Japanese factories also learned how to cut energy use and become among the most efficient in the world. 
 Companies like Mitsubishi Heavy Industries are now reaping the benefits in booming overseas sales of their highly efficient electric turbines, steel blast furnaces and other industrial machinery, particularly in the United States. The environment ministry forecasts that exports will help turn energy conservation into a $7.9 billion industry in Japan by 2020, about 10 times its size in 2000.
 ''Japan has taught itself how to survive with energy prices that are twice as high as everywhere else,'' said Kouichi Iwama, an economics professor at Wako University who advises the Japanese Parliament on energy policy.
 But with a few exceptions like cars, many of Japan's efficient consumer products have yet to make their way overseas, according to corporate executives. Partly, that is because while more energy-efficient, they are also more expensive. But another reason is that many appliances here are designed for Japan's conservation-conscious lifestyle, which includes things like smaller homes and a lack of central heating. 
 Mr. Kimura says he, his wife, and two teenage children all take turns bathing in the same water, a common practice here. Afterward, the still-warm water is sucked through a rubber tube into the nearby washing machine to clean clothes. Wet laundry is hung outside to dry or under a heat lamp in the bathroom.
 ''In Japan, it's natural to think about saving energy,'' Mr. Kimura explains. ''We learned not to waste from our parents, who had learned it from the hardship of the war and after,'' he said.
 The different approach is also apparent in the layout of Mr. Kimura's home, which at 1,188 square feet is about the average size of a house in Japan but only about half as big as the average American one. The rooms are also small, making them easier to heat or cool. The largest is the living room, which is about the size of an American bedroom. 
 During winter, the entire family, including the miniature dachshund, gathers here, which is often the only room heated. Like most Japanese homes, Mr. Kimura's does not have central heating. The hallways, stairwell and bathrooms are left cold. The three bedrooms have wall-mounted heaters, which are used only when the rooms are occupied, and switched off at night.
 The living room is kept toasty by hot water running through pipes under the floor. Mr. Kimura says such ambient heat saves money. He says the energy bill for his home is about 20,000 yen ($168) a month. Central heating alone would easily double or triple his energy bill, he says.
 ''Central heating is just too extravagant,'' says Mr. Kimura, who is solidly middle class. 
 The government has tried to foster a culture of conservation with regular campaigns like this winter's Warm Biz, a call to businesspeople to don sweaters and long johns under their gray suits so that office thermostats could be set lower. It has also encouraged development of energy-saving appliances with its Top Runner program, which has set goals for reducing energy use. 
 Products that meet the goals are awarded a green sticker, while those that fail get an orange sticker. Japan's trade and industry ministry says consumers heed the stickers, pushing manufacturers to raise the energy efficiency. The average air-conditioner now uses two-thirds less electricity than in 1997, and the average freezer 23 percent less, the ministry said.
 The savings add up. The average household here used 4,177 kilowatt- hours of electricity in 2001, the most recent figure, according to the Jyukankyo Research Institute in Tokyo. In the same year, the average American household consumed more than twice that, or 10,655 kilowatt hours, according to the Energy Department.
 ''The Japanese use less energy, there's no doubt about that,'' said Alan K. Meier, a scientist specializing in energy efficiency at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California. ''Some of it is more efficient appliances, but these are only part of a different lifestyle and one that's more energy-conscious.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the energy efficient ways of the Japanese misstated the amount of energy consumed in Japan and the United States as measured in tons of oil per person. Japan consumed the energy equivalent of 2.8 tons of oil per person in 2004, not 2.8 million tons. Likewise, the United States consumed 5.4 tons of oil per person, not 5.4 million tons. The article also referred imprecisely to the output from a home fuel cell used by a Japanese homeowner, Kiminobu Kimura. The cell produces one kilowatt of power per hour; not one kilowatt per hour.

GRAPHIC: Photos: It is a rarity to see all the lights ablaze at Kiminobu Kimura's home in Tokyo, where a fuel cell turns hydrogen into electricity and cold water into hot. The Kimura family heats very few rooms and recycles its bath water. (Photograph by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times
illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Kiminobu Kimura of Tokyo uses a home fuel cell, a machine that resembles a filing cabinet and sits in front of his house. (Photo by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Two Energy Diets''Home energy use in the United States has declined, but Japanese homes are far more energy-efficient.Graph tracks average home energy use in both the United States and Japan from 1980 through 2002.(Sources by Energy Information Administration
Japan Ministry of Economics, Trade and Industry)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Zen Mind, Energy Mind''Japanese homes used less than half the energy, on average, of American homes in 2001, the last year for which comparable data is available.TotalUNITED STATES: 92.3JAPAN: 45.2HeatingUNITED STATES: 43.2JAPAN: 12.8AppliancesUNITED STATES: 27.5JAPAN: 16.6Hot waterUNITED STATES: 15.8JAPAN: 14.9AirconditioningUNITED STATES: 5.8JAPAN: 1.0Avg. home energy use, 2001, in millions of B.T.U.'s(Sources by Energy Information Administration
 Japan Ministry of Economics, Trade and Industry)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (77%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (72%); CYCLING (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Housing; Energy Efficiency

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



95 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Issue Rules on High-Risk Dealings 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Financial regulators on Friday issued final guidance aimed at helping banks and other institutions identify and control heightened risks from certain complex structured finance transactions, like those that led to the collapse of Enron in 2001. 
 The final statement is substantially similar to the previous version issued for comment in May, providing a principles-based approach to address structured finance risks, the regulators said jointly.
But it differed from temporary guidance put in place in 2004 that included stronger language describing the transactions institutions should avoid. The 2004 version also called for specific guidance on the documentation practices and the roles a financial institution's board plays in preventing abusive deals. 
 Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, criticized the new guidance as weaker. 
 The final guidance says that banks engaging in complex structured finance transactions should have formal written corporate policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and control risks associated with such deals, with an emphasis on those that present elevated levels of legal or reputational risk to the institution.
 The regulators prescribed that banks give more scrutiny to transactions that appear to lack economic substance or business purpose or be designed or used primarily for questionable accounting, regulatory or tax objectives -- particularly at the end of a client reporting period. 
 They also said banks should scrutinize deals that involve circular transfers of risk that lack economic substance, or provide the financial institution with compensation that appears substantially disproportionate to the services provided or the credit or operational risk assumed by the institution. 
 Enron's collapse was brought about in part by structured finance deals with the energy trading company's special-purpose entities aimed at achieving misleading earnings, revenue or balance-sheet effects.
 The Federal Reserve Board subsequently started enforcement actions against several large banks that entered the deals with Enron. Last month, the Fed ended two of these actions, against Citigroup and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, both of which involved written agreements by the banks to adopt remedial policies and improve their credit risk management programs. 
 The guidance was issued by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (50%) Banks and Banking; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); CITIGROUP INC (59%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

TICKER: CM (TSX) (84%); CM (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (59%); C (BMV) (59%); 8710 (TSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (59%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



96 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Colorado, Still Recovering From 2 Storms, Is Hit With a 3rd

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Dennis Carroll contributed reporting from Rocky Ford, Colo.

DATELINE: DENVER, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Another winter storm bore down on snow-weary Colorado on Friday, complicating the recovery from back-to-back blizzards in December and raising fears that livestock losses would continue to mount. 
 At least 1,000 head of cattle were confirmed dead, most of them smothered by drifts when they bunched together along fence lines.
''This is far from over,'' said Don Ament, the state's agriculture commissioner. 
 The latest storm was a pallid reflection of the two holiday-week behemoths that brought as much as four feet of snow between them to parts of the Denver area and shut down Denver International Airport for two days during the peak travel period just before Christmas. 
 But even an additional six to eight inches of snow, predicted through early Saturday, was a reminder of how wildly divergent the nation's weather has become this winter, with East Coast residents in shirtsleeves and sandals while people here and across the Plains and Southwest are overwhelmed by reminders of the season's potential for havoc. 
 A spokeswoman for the Colorado Division of Emergency Management, Polly White, said the biggest concern in the state's hard-hit southeast corner on Friday was wind. Across an eight-county area, 25 percent of the roads were still impassable a week after the last storm, Ms. White said, and gusts up to 35 miles per hour were predicted from the new one. 
 Bad weather grounded Colorado National Guard flights that had been dropping hay to cattle stranded by drifts as high as 15 feet in places like Prowers County on the Kansas border, Ms. White said. Relief efforts were continuing on Friday using tractors and four-wheel-drive trucks. 
 ''We're hoping that the winds predicted in the southeast don't blow the snow back over and cover the roads,'' Ms. White said. ''Then we're starting over.''
 But the pictures on television of buried cars, collapsed roofs, disgruntled travelers and worried farmers also belie the mixed impact of the weather. 
 The snow cost Denver's airport as much as $11 million, according to preliminary estimates by airport administrators, mainly for cleanup and lost revenue from canceled flights. But many Denver hotels had their best December in years as stranded travelers and downtown office workers took shelter.
 Cattle losses could rise into the tens of millions of dollars, farm experts said, perhaps even approaching the estimated $28 million in farm-animal deaths in a blizzard in 1997. But winter wheat farmers, whose lands have been parched by years of drought, were exulting. The deep snows, they say, will almost certainly produce the best crop in years.
 Ski resort operators said that thousands of visitors were kept away from the slopes during the storms by the closed airport and the bad roads, but that news coverage of Denver's plight during those same snowbound hours had also proved to be the kind of advertising money cannot buy, prompting a surge of reservations and telephone calls. 
 The Aspen Skiing Company, which operates four resorts around Aspen in central Colorado, had 3,000 to 4,000 fewer skier-days through the Christmas week than expected, with each skier-day worth $50 to $75, said Jeff Hanle, a company spokesman.
 ''But the reservation center had some of the busiest days ever,'' Mr. Hanle added. ''It gave us a real blip for February and March bookings.''
 And the storms also revealed, residents and local officials say, how much the political and demographic pattern of the West continues to evolve.
 Agriculture, while still important to Colorado's economy, is increasingly dwarfed by the clout of Denver and its suburbs, which swallowed up most of the available snow-removal equipment and worsened the trouble on ranches and farms.
 Since 1997, when the last great blizzard hit cow-country Colorado, the number of cattle statewide has fallen by 25 percent, to around three million from about four million, according to the State Agriculture Department. 
 ''A lot of the equipment isn't available to go out to the rural areas because it's contracted to the cities,'' said Barry Cooper, the president and chief executive of Farm Credit of Southern Colorado, a bank in Colorado Springs that specializes in agriculture.
 Insurance concerns have compounded the disparity, Mr. Cooper said, since municipalities have the resources to protect snow-removal contractors from liability, while rural areas with lots of private ranch roads mostly do not.
 But life was grinding back to normal, even in the snowiest spots.
 Jason Dittburner, 33, who drives a 150-mile-a-day route through Southeast Colorado in a Hostess-Wonder Bread van, delivering supplies to grocers, was back on the job on Wednesday, the first day roads were clear enough to make his route since Dec. 29, and Dorothy Grano, for one, was happy to see him.
 ''The shelves were getting pretty empty,'' said Ms. Grano, the assistant manager of the Rocky Ford Mini-Mart, about two-and-a-half hours south of Denver, as Mr. Dittburner walked in with his racks of bread, snack cakes and fruit pies.
 Ranchers say the next worry on the horizon is calving season, which is just beginning.
 Dale Butler, who manages about 700 head of cattle near the Kansas border for himself and a partner, said in a telephone interview that his cows were expecting about 350 calves between now and early April, and that he had lost six so far in the cold snap that followed the snows.
 ''It was so cold they wouldn't try to get up to nurse,'' Mr. Butler said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Southeast Colorado is expected to receive up to eight more inches of snow from a current storm, coming on top of back-to-back blizzards in December. Cattle, like this one on a ranch west of Fowler, are suffering. (Photo by Evan Semon/Rocky Mountain News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); ANIMALS (77%); COUNTIES (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); SKIING (73%); DROUGHT (72%); RESORTS (71%); WHEAT FARMING (71%); SKIING FACILITIES (60%) Weather; Snow and Snowstorms; Cattle; Livestock; Finances

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



97 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Just Days Into the Year, Killings Toll Hits 8 in New Orleans 

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
A surge in murders since the new year has residents on edge and has raised new fears that officials here remain helpless to contain a lethal combination of guns, drugs and jobless young men. 
 The worries are particularly acute as this city struggles to repopulate 17 months after Hurricane Katrina.
Eight people have been found dead since Jan. 1, seven of them shooting victims, with the most recent being a young woman found lying on her bed in the Uptown section Friday morning, shot in the head. 
 As the police were scrambling to investigate that killing and the others, mostly of young men gunned down in high-crime areas, grief-stricken neighbors gathered outside the house of Helen Hill, an independent filmmaker, and her husband, Dr. Paul Gailiunas, who were shot by an intruder early Thursday morning in the Faubourg Marigny section, the authorities said. 
 Ms. Hill, 36, well known in the local film community and the recipient of several awards, was killed; Dr. Gailiunas, who specialized in treating the city's poor, survived his wounds. The police found him kneeling by the front door, bleeding and holding the couple's 2-year-old son in his arms. His wife lay nearby, shot in the neck. The child was not hurt. 
 That crime, breaking the typical pattern of drug-related shootings, helped prompt a front-page headline in The Times-Picayune on Friday: ''Killings bring the city to its bloodied knees.''
 The spate of murders came after a New Year's Day statement by the city's police superintendent, Warren J. Riley, that New Orleans had been made safer because the 2006 murder total was the lowest in 30 years.
 But the assertion was questionable even before these killings started. On a per-capita basis, because of the city's drastically reduced population after Hurricane Katrina, the murder rate of at least 81 per 100,000 people in 2006 easily makes New Orleans one of the most violent cities in the nation. 
 On Friday, flowers and scribbled remembrances fronted the modest duplex of Ms. Hill and her husband on North Rampart Street, in a picturesque neighborhood of old Creole cottages frequented by tourists and local residents escaping the crowds of the nearby French Quarter. 
 Both were remembered as outsiders -- Dr. Gailiunas is from Canada, friends said, and his wife from South Carolina -- with a fervent commitment to the city's culture and its underclass.
 ''You know what, it's horrifying: you kill my wife, you shoot me while I'm holding my baby,'' said Darlene Wright, who said Dr. Gailiunas had treated her two sons at the low-cost clinic he started on Esplanade Avenue. ''He was different from the other doctors. It didn't matter what your color or culture. He cared about the people.''
 Friends said Dr. Gailiunas had been released from the hospital Friday afternoon and that he planned to return to Canada. The police said his wounds were not life-threatening but they could not confirm his release. 
 Ms. Hill, a Harvard graduate and recipient of a Rockefeller Foundation fellowship, had shown her films at numerous festivals in Canada and the United States. 
 ''Things didn't matter to them, their whole focus was on people and partaking in the culture of what was happening in New Orleans,'' said Carlton Charles, Dr. Gailiunas's landlord at the Esplanade clinic. 
 Previously, the doctor had worked in the high-crime, impoverished Central City area. 
 ''He wanted to reach out to the poor and the underprivileged, people he felt had a lot of needs,'' Dr. Henry Evans, a colleague there, said. 
 On Friday, David Jones, the owner of a bed-and-breakfast near the couple's home, described how, shortly before the shooting, a lanky gun-wielding intruder -- possibly the same one who shot the couple -- had forced his way into his establishment, but apparently fled after panicked guests called the police. 
 The other recent killings followed a depressingly familiar pattern. Earlier Thursday, the police found a young man with gunshot wounds lying face-down in a Central City alleyway; on Wednesday evening, they responded to a report of gunshots in the same neighborhood and found another young man dead; that afternoon, Louisiana National Guardsmen found the body of a man shot in the head in the Desire area, in the Ninth Ward; and on Wednesday morning, they found the body of a woman wrapped in a rug in the Lower Ninth Ward.
 The National Guard is patrolling several sections of the city at the request of the Police Department, which is still low on manpower. Superintendent Riley, who has been out of town, and other senior police officials did not respond to requests for comment on the violence.
 Compounding residents' fears here is the apparent inability of the criminal justice system to successfully prosecute the murderers. A study by the Metropolitan Crime Commission of New Orleans, a foundation, found that from October 2003 to September 2004, only 12 percent of those arrested for murder were incarcerated. 
 ''You know, there are people in this neighborhood trying to bring it back,'' said Mr. Jones, the bed-and-breakfast owner. ''I'm tired of this. I'm ready to torch the whole neighborhood.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mourners gathered at the couple's home in the Faubourg Marigny section of the city yesterday and left flowers and remembrances there. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)
 Dr. Paul Gailiunas survived a shooting at home on Thursday morning, but his wife, Helen Hill, 36, an independent filmmaker, died. (Photo by Steven Forster/The Times-Picayune, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); MURDER (90%); FIREARMS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); HEAD INJURIES (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Firearms; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: Adam Nossiter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



98 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Strong Job Growth Eases Concerns on the Economy
Job growth was brisk in December as businesses added 167,000 jobs, further evidence that the economy is not likely to slip into a recession. PAGE C1

First-Baby Contest Draws Ire 

After disqualifying a baby born to Chinese immigrants from a contest, Toys ''R'' Us finds itself in the glare of the immigration debate. PAGE B1

Rethinking Thin Models
Trying to ease concerns about dangerously thin models, fashion designers have offered guidelines for promoting healthier behavior. PAGE C1

For Fat Dogs, a Diet Pill
The Food and Drug Administration announces its approval of the first prescription drug to treat obesity in dogs. PAGE A9

The Postseason Is Now
The N.F.L. playoffs begin this afternoon when Kansas City takes on Indianapolis. Dallas plays Seattle tonight. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

THIS WEEKEND

Asian Admissions Debate
The percentage of Asian undergraduates at elite colleges -- 41 percent at the University of California, Berkeley -- is the new talking point in the affirmative action debate. Some say too many are admitted; others, not enough. Also: When high school is harder than college, what happens in college? EDUCATION LIFE

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); OBESITY (69%); BARIATRICS (69%); DIETING (69%); DOGS (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (67%); FASHION DESIGNERS (55%); APPROVALS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



99 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 611 words

PERSON: Bernard David Meltzer 

HEADLINE: Bernard Meltzer, 92, Labor Expert and Nuremberg Prosecutor 

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Bernard D. Meltzer, a law professor who helped bring clarity to labor-management issues at a time of great change in the field, who was a prosecutor at the Nuremberg war crimes trials and who helped draft the United Nations Charter, died Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 92.
 The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Jean Sulzberger Meltzer. 
Mr. Meltzer was the Edward H. Levi distinguished service professor emeritus at the University of Chicago School of Law, where he taught from 1946 until 1985. 
 Soon after joining the faculty, he delved into controversial and complicated labor-law issues that, for the most part, had been set aside during World War II. They included interpretations of the Norris-La Guardia Act of 1932, which sharply restricted injunctions against striking unions, and of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, which created a statutory framework for collective bargaining. 
 ''It was not that Bernie came up with grand conclusions,'' said Richard A. Epstein, a colleague at the University of Chicago who has also written extensively on labor law. ''He was a terrific technical lawyer who smoothed the awkward edges of very complicated statutory schemes.''
 Mr. Meltzer's writings dealt with a wide variety of labor issues. These included whether federal statutes pre-empt state labor laws, and the legality of secondary boycotts, those in which a union takes action against companies doing business with the company that the union is seeking to organize. His articles were often cited in modern works and current cases, Professor Epstein said.
 In his later years, Mr. Meltzer continued to write, while sometimes also serving as a special master in labor disputes, a consultant to the Department of Labor and a salary arbitrator for major league baseball.
 Bernard David Meltzer was born in Philadelphia on Nov. 21, 1914, one of six children of Julius and Rose Wolkov Meltzer, both immigrants from Russia. His father was a shoe salesman.
 In addition to his wife of 60 years, he is survived by a son, Daniel, of Cambridge, Mass.; two daughters, Joan FitzGibbon of Indianapolis and Susan Yost of Columbus, Ohio; and six grandchildren.
 Mr. Meltzer earned his bachelor's degree at the University of Chicago in 1935 and his law degree there two years later, graduating first in his class. In 1938, he received a master's of law degree from Harvard University.
 After working at a Chicago law firm, Mr. Meltzer went to Washington as an aide to Dean Acheson, who was then an assistant secretary of state. In 1943, Mr. Meltzer joined the Navy and was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services, the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency. In the closing days of the war, at the request of the State Department, he was reassigned to go to San Francisco to assist in drafting the United Nations Charter. He dealt in particular with the provisions establishing the General Assembly.
 In 1946, while still in the Navy, Mr. Meltzer was assigned to the United States prosecution staff for the Nuremberg war crime trials.
 He led a team of lawyers who gathered evidence against business executives who had helped finance the Nazi war machine and against defendants accused of plundering occupied territories and profiting from the use of millions of slave laborers. He also conducted the pretrial interrogation of Hermann Goring, Hitler's second in command, and presented the case against Walther Funk, the Third Reich's minister of economics. 
 In describing the methodical record-keeping that the Nazis employed for their system of death camps, Mr. Meltzer wrote in 1999, ''It was a lawyer's dream, but a humanist's nightmare.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); STRIKES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); LAWYERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BOYCOTTS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); BASEBALL (63%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (67%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (72%); INDIANA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (72%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



100 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; MILITARY ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: A New Commander, in Step

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The selection of Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus to serve as the senior American commander in Iraq signals an important turn in United States strategy. 
 As a supporter of increased forces in Iraq, General Petraeus is expected to back a rapid five-brigade expansion, in sharp contrast to his predecessor, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., who has been openly skeptical that additional troops would help stabilize the country.
Having overseen the recent drafting of the military's counterinsurgency manual, General Petraeus is also likely to change the American military operation in Baghdad. American forces can be expected to take up positions in neighborhoods throughout the capital instead of limiting themselves to conducting patrols from large, fortified bases in and around the city. 
 The overarching goal of the American military operation may be altered as well. Under General Casey, the principal focus has been on transferring security responsibilities to the Iraqi security forces, so American troops could gradually withdraw. Now, the emphasis will shift to protecting the Iraqi population from sectarian strife and insurgent attacks.
 Since his appointment was disclosed Thursday, General Petraeus has not spoken publicly about his plans for Iraq. But the doctrine he has advocated suggests that he will want all five of the combat brigades slated to go to Iraq as quickly as possible instead of waiting for them to be phased in.
 Before the selection of General Petraeus, there was some doubt about whether the top Iraq commander would be an enthusiastic executor of the new strategy President Bush is preparing to unveil next week -- one that could send 20,000 new troops to Iraq. Now, the White House will have an articulate officer to champion and shape that strategy, an important asset for an administration that has decided to buck the tide of public opinion by deepening the American military involvement in Iraq. While some Democratic lawmakers have insisted that any increase be limited to a few months, neither the While House nor General Petraeus would support such a deadline.
 To many civilians, the military seems monolithic. But in fact, there has been a lively debate behind the scenes about the best way to achieve the United States' objectives in Iraq -- or at least to preserve a measure of stability as sectarian passions threaten to engulf the country.
 At one end of the spectrum have been General Casey, Gen. John P. Abizaid, the head of the United States Central Command, and Lt. Gen. Martin Dempsey, who is in charge of training Iraqi security forces.
 They have advocated plans to hand over security responsibilities to the Iraqis while gradually reducing American forces and shrinking the number of American bases in Iraq, as conditions permit. Their argument has been that a lengthy expansion of American forces in Iraq will simply put off the day when Iraqis take more responsibility for their security. 
 Taking a different view, other officers have argued for sending more troops while stepping up economic efforts, the better to apply the military's new counterinsurgency doctrine. Progress in stabilizing Iraq, they argue, will come only when the Iraqi public does not feel that it needs militias or insurgent groups to ensure its security, and when it concludes that its basic economic needs are being met.
 Training and advising the Iraqi forces should continue to be an important priority, these officers have argued, but the Iraqis cannot be expected to shoulder the brunt of the security effort so quickly.
 General Petraeus has been squarely in this camp, as was reflected in the military's new counterinsurgency field manual. 
 The United States has sought to apply the basic lessons of counterinsurgency operations in Baghdad before -- most notably during Operation Together Forward II, the second phase of an effort begun over the summer to reduce violence in Baghdad. 
 But that effort foundered when the United States and Iraqi authorities failed to marshal sufficient forces to hold neighborhoods after they were cleared of insurgents and militias, and when the Iraqis failed to follow through with the job and reconstruction programs that were intended to win over Iraqi citizens.
 By all accounts, Mr. Bush plans to announce an expanded military and economic push. But the United States will still have to contend with the political realities in Iraq, including a Shiite-dominated government that has often seemed more sectarian than inclusive, and may not prove enthusiastic about a larger and more visible role for the Americans.
 At 54, General Petraeus has a long Army record and a diverse array of contacts and supporters. Having earned a Ph.D. in international relations from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, he invited experts from Harvard, nongovernmental organizations and policy groups to review an early draft of the counterinsurgency manual. 
 During the invasion, he led the 101st Airborne Division, which sought to emphasize economic and political reconstruction efforts in northern Iraq. 
 When L. Paul Bremer III, the second American civilian administrator of Iraq, formally abolished the Iraqi Army without announcing a plan to pay the former soldiers, General Petraeus approached one of Mr. Bremer's aides and delivered a clear message. The decision to leave Iraqi soldiers without a livelihood was prompting angry protests and putting the lives of American soldiers at risk. Mr. Bremer later decided to pay the Iraqi troops.
 In June 2004, General Petraeus was charged with training the new Iraqi Army, a position he held for more than a year. It is a mission that is critical to American efforts in Iraq but which is as yet a mixed success.
 As the senior American officer in Iraq, General Petraeus will work with Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, a subordinate who has day-to-day command of the forces and who also supports a troop increase.
 Instead of immediately confronting the Mahdi Army, the Shiite militia led by the cleric Moktada al-Sadr, the initial strategy is likely to be more subtle: by trying to tamp down sectarian killings, American troops -- and the Iraqi forces they are partnered with -- will try to reduce the population's reliance on militias for security, making it easier for the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to take the long-promised step of limiting the role of the militias.
 Whether a modicum of stability can be achieved amid the violence and sectarian agendas in Iraq is uncertain at best. But General Petraeus seems determined to give the military's new counterinsurgency plan its most ambitious field test.


GRAPHIC: Photo: American and Iraqi soldiers in Baghdad recently. Under a new strategy, emphasis will shift to protecting the Iraqi population from sectarianism. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%) United States Armament and Defense; Military Strategy and Tactics; Public Opinion; United States International Relations

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (93%) Michael R Gordon; David H (Lt Gen) Petraeus; George W Jr (Gen) Casey; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



101 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Highly Paid Chief Is Paid $210 Million to Go Away 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
THE new year began with a series of surprises, not all of them pleasant.
 There was a blowup over excessive pay for corporate executives, worrying signs of a slowing economy, accelerating troubles for major manufacturers and new accusations of wrongdoing on Wall Street.
There was good news, too. Boeing said its order book was bulging, and the number of securities fraud class-action lawsuits fell last year to the lowest level in a decade.

PAY FIGHT -- After enduring six years of mounting criticism over his pay package, an imperious management style and a listless stock price, Robert L. Nardelli, the chief executive of Home Depot, resigned abruptly. He left with a severance package worth $210 million. Over six years as chief executive, he had taken home $64 million and was on track to earn hundreds of millions more. 
 In a statement, Home Depot said the former chief executive and the company's board ''mutually agreed that Nardelli would leave his position.'' It added that Frank Blake, its vice chairman and one of Mr. Nardelli's lieutenants, would succeed him.
 The $210 million in compensation for Mr. Nardelli will include deferred compensation, pensions and other benefits to which he was already entitled. It also included an extra $20 million cash payment that the company was not legally obliged to pay. 
 The developments reignited public debate about executive pay, just as the Securities and Exchange Commission is moving to modify disclosure rules. The changes will mask the true value of what senior executives are paid, critics say.
 Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee in the Democratic-controlled Congress, has said he will pursue legislation to curb executive salaries.

WEAK ECONOMY -- Federal Reserve policy makers shed light on why they have held interest rates steady even though inflation is rising faster than their target rate: they are worried that the housing market slump may be a drag on the economy.
 That came out when the Fed released minutes of the December meeting of its Open Market Committee.
 The Fed's wary outlook surfaced as retailers said sales in December were disappointing, even after many had scaled back their fourth-quarter profit expectations. Some retailers also reduced forecasts for 2007.
 Retailers blamed mild weather that depressed winter clothing sales, but the flagging housing market and rising energy prices also had a big effect.
 Economists generally expect the Fed to hold rates steady at its next meeting, at the end of the month, followed by possible reductions in rates later in the year.

HEARING FOOTSTEPS -- General Motors and Ford Motor said they ended a year of slumping sales with an accelerating slide in December, when they sold about 13 percent fewer cars than in December 2005.
 With consumers turning away from pickups and big sport utility vehicles, mainstays of both company's lineups, their share of the American market slid to just 53.7 percent for the year -- and just 51.5 percent for the month. Both are their lowest collective shares ever.
 Toyota, meanwhile, set a sales record in 2006 and passed DaimlerChrysler to take third place in the American car market. Toyota is now bearing down on Ford, which it is expected to unseat this year to take second place in the United States, and may overtake G.M. as the largest carmaker in the world.
 Toyota will soon decide whether to build two more plants in the United States, even as industry analysts forecast a slight decline in total sales for all makers in 2007. G.M. and Ford are closing factories.

BOEING'S BACK -- Strong demand for its workhorse 737 narrow-body jet and robust sales of its new fuel-efficient 787 Dreamliner helped Boeing report a record 1,044 orders for commercial airplanes at the end of last year. That should be more than enough to surpass Airbus for the first time since 2000.
 Airbus, which has not yet reported December sales, said it had 687 firm orders as of the end of November.
 Measured by actual deliveries, however, Airbus remains ahead. It was on pace to deliver about 425 commercial aircraft last year, while Boeing delivered 398. Airlines and leasing companies order planes years in advance, and sometimes increase, decrease or cancel those orders before the planes are delivered.
 Airbus is scheduled to announce its 2006 order total on Jan. 17.

HEDGE INQUIRY -- William F. Galvin, the secretary of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, has asked UBS for information to determine whether it is using cheap office space to entice hedge funds to do business with the firm, possibly at the expense of the funds' investors.
 UBS leases space to hedge funds and provides them with office help at a tower in Boston, said Brian McNiff, a spokesman for Mr. Galvin. Investigators suspect that UBS expected the hedge funds to execute their trades through the bank, paying higher fees in return for the space. 
 Other banks may also come in for scrutiny. Bear Stearns, for example, also offers space in so-called hedge fund hotels in New York, Boston, San Francisco and Los Angeles. 

FEWER SUITS -- Just days after Wall Street began a campaign to curb what it said was a surge in shareholder lawsuits encouraged by a 2002 corporate-disclosure reform law, Stanford University reported that securities fraud class-action lawsuits fell last year to the lowest number in a decade.
 The study, from the Stanford Law School Securities Class Action Clearinghouse, said the number of class actions declined 38 percent, to just 110 filings, compared with 178 in 2005. Last year's total was 43 percent below the 10-year historical average.
 The clearinghouse is run jointly by the Stanford Law School and Cornerstone Research, which provides advice to lawyers in commercial lawsuits.
 Excluding suits over stock option backdating, which has embroiled 130 companies so far, the decline is even bigger, researchers said.
 The number of suits is likely to fall further because regulations adopted after recent scandals have discouraged fraud, encouraged good practices and energized law enforcement, said Joseph A. Grundfest, the professor who runs the clearinghouse.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Dec. 30 through Jan. 5:

1. Wal-Mart Puts Some Muscle Behind Power-Sipping Bulbs
2. Google Answer to Filling Jobs Is an Algorithm
3. Young Turn to Web Sites Without Rules
4. Fewer Excuses for Not Doing a PC Backup
5. In Silicon Valley, the Race Is On to Trump Google

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert L. Nardelli resigned Tuesday as Home Depot chief, brought down by his compensation. He received a $210 million exit package. (Photo by Gene Blythe/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAILERS (85%); BONDS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); ETHICS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); RETAIL SALES (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); WEATHER (60%); AIRCRAFT MFG (57%); CLASS ACTIONS (56%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; Housing; Credit; Automobiles; Executives and Management; Sales; Airlines and Airplanes; Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds; Securities and Commodities Violations; Executives and Management; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Home Depot Inc; Federal Reserve System; General Motors Corp ; Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp; Daimler-Chrysler Ag; Boeing Co; Airbus Industrie; Ubs Ag; Stanford University

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (91%); FRANK BLAKE (79%); BARNEY FRANK (51%) Robert L Nardelli; Mark Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



102 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: A Future With The Wind

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
AES, the big power company, is branching out to wind power generation and other alternative energy. The company, which generates and distributes electricity in 26 countries, is also entering the $28 billion carbon trading market, where credits are exchanged to reduce or offset greenhouse gas emissions. Its chief executive, Paul Hanrahan, sat down in his office at the company's sleek new headquarters in Arlington, Va., to discuss these developments. Following are excerpts: 


Q. Last spring, AES announced plans to invest about $1 billion over the next three years in alternative energy projects, specifically wind power generation and biomass. What business factors led to that decision?

A. We had decided that it was time to look at the alternative energy field as an area that was a good fit with our strategy. We saw that alternative energy was attractive from the environmental standpoint and from the energy security standpoint. And it is really the area with the highest growth potential. The wind industry is expected to triple in size by 2015, so it's going from about 73 gigawatts to over 200 gigawatts.

Q. AES appears to have adopted several strategies in its expansion into wind generation, buying companies outright as well as buying majority interest -- does that give you more mobility to get into markets quickly?

A. What it allows us to do is to take advantage of our global footprint. We are in 26 countries, and by buying a company in a region we can take that skill set the company has and expand it globally. A good example is our SeaWest acquisition where we bought a U.S. wind company, and we're developing U.S. wind projects as well as expanding into countries like Bulgaria, Scotland and France. And we're looking at new projects in India, China and the Czech Republic.

Q. AES has had record revenue recently -- a 14 percent increase to $3.15 billion in the third quarter. Why is that?

A. We are one of the few global power companies that not only is operating in developed countries but also in emerging markets, which, with respect to electricity, have much higher growth rates. We consciously got into this area because there is a high need to get power into these markets for economic growth, and it allows us as a company to grow much faster.

Q. Several years ago, the company's bottom line was tripped up by foreign currency transaction problems. What have you done to guard against a recurrence?

A. We have dramatically reduced the amount of debt, and in various locations we've refinanced dollar debt with local currency debt so we don't have that same kind of foreign currency exposure.

Q. One of AES's new ventures is liquefied natural gas terminals. Are the prices for natural gas high enough to justify that kind of investment?

A. We have three terminals in development right now. The U.S. is running out of natural gas -- production is declining and demand growing -- so the expectation is that the import levels will go from 3 percent today to about 24 percent in 2020. The constraint is, How do you get it into the country? If the three are successful, we will continue to look for opportunities to develop L.N.G. terminals.

Q. Where are those liquid natural gas terminals?

A. The Bahamas, to provide gas to the Florida market, Baltimore and one offshore in Boston.

Q. How do AES's ventures in alternative energy relate to climate change?

A. We developed it as a way to mitigate carbon emissions from our plants. We started doing this in the early '90s. For example, for our power plant in Connecticut, we planted 50 million trees in Guatemala. This new effort is a continuation of that theme, but looking at it now not as a social responsibility project but as something that has profit potential given that people are buying these credits in Europe and are likely to continue buying them.

Q. In July, AES announced the installation of clean coal technology at your power plant in Dresden, N.Y. With future oil supplies so problematical, what do you see as coal's future?

A. For countries with coal as an indigenous resource, coal has a lot of potential because you can do a lot to reduce the particulate emissions and the sulfur nitrogen emissions which cause acid rain. You can reduce the carbon emissions from a power plant very cheaply, so we think there is a lot of potential to produce electricity in an environmentally responsible way.

GRAPHIC: Photo: PAUL HANRAHAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); WIND POWER PLANTS (92%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (86%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); BIOMASS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CARBON OFFSETS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%) Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: AES CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Aes Corp

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: PAUL T HANRAHAN (89%) Paul Hanrahan; Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (74%); FRANCE (69%); SCOTLAND (53%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



103 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Making No Small Plans 

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer is fond of saying that you can't change the world by whispering. What New Yorkers saw in his first week in office was a governor in full trumpet about how to overhaul their state government. While some veterans of state politics saw Mr. Spitzer's State of the State speech on Wednesday as too ambitious, former Gov. Hugh Carey got it just right. ''It's a very big agenda,'' he said, ''but it's not too big for New York.'' 
 We are still in the promising stage, of course, and the real test will begin later this month with Mr. Spitzer's first executive budget. But he has begun by laying down a number of important, and sensible, markers. On health care, he wants insurance for all children. He hopes to find some of the money to do this by consolidating hospitals and shifting patients from nursing homes to at-home care.
On education, Mr. Spitzer says he wants to spread money out more fairly to students who most need it. Suburban lawmakers whose schools are favored by the current formula will object. But he may win them over with his plan to lower property taxes that fall heavily on middle-class suburbanites.
 He made a strong pitch for economic revitalization upstate, a familiar but elusive goal of a long line of New York politicians. 
 Mr. Spitzer also proposed a series of reforms that are certain to rile legislators accustomed to lifetime tenure in Albany. He intends to create a nonpartisan redistricting commission and vowed to veto any future district lines that are gerrymandered to make elections uncompetitive. And he wants to ''replace the weakest campaign finance laws in the nation with the strongest.'' That means lowering contribution limits and providing public financing so that moneyed interests can no longer buy political clout. 
 Also on Mr. Spitzer's ambitious to-do list, and appropriately so, are restructuring the courts and organizing the overlapping local governments across the state. 
 Mr. Spitzer faces two major hurdles. One is finding top-flight appointees to make these proposals a reality. One of the most important sales jobs he has now is convincing enough good people that working for government wages is worth it to help reinvent such a powerful state government. Mr. Spitzer's other challenge will be getting the Legislature to go along. Much of his speech was met with an odd silence from lawmakers. Perhaps it was the way Mr. Spitzer carved out new political territory that does not entirely cater to upstate Republicans or downstate Democrats. But it may simply be that they do not yet know what to make of all that urgency, all those promises, all that work. 
 Mr. Spitzer certainly acts like a man ready to go forward quickly. The goals he has set may be daunting to the old guard in Albany, but anything less from this governor would have been a grave disappointment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); NURSING HOMES (73%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); SUBURBS (71%); REDISTRICTING (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (68%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); SALES FORCE (64%) Editorials; State of the State Message (NYS)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



104 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Big Payoff, Companies Pay Dearly for Tech Trade Show

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
For a small technology company called Digeo, the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas is one of the biggest opportunities of the year. For the next few days, the city will be jampacked with potential customers, partners and press -- but the price of participation is daunting.
 It starts with $24,500 for reserving 700 square feet of booth space on the sprawling convention center floor, tens of thousands more to furnish and operate the booth, plus $300 a night for hotel rooms for the 29 Digeo employees who are attending the convention.
Then there is the cost of rental vans, thousands of dollars to advertise at the show and meals for employees. The eight-year-old company, which makes gear and software for home entertainment, estimates that it will spend $500,000 to $1 million on the show this year.
 Is it worth it? ''Ask me afterward,'' said Allison Cornia, vice president for marketing at Digeo. 
 Financial anxieties aside, Digeo, like almost every other technology company, hardly thinks twice about attending the event, North America's largest trade show and the industry's flashiest stage, which turns 40 years old this year.
 Luminaries like Bill Gates, Michael S. Dell and Robert A. Iger, the Disney chief executive, will deliver keynote speeches. Starting Monday, powerhouses like Sony, Samsung and Panasonic will light up the showroom floor for four days with their largest high-definition TVs, smallest digital music players and latest high-tech gadgets, many of them months away from going on sale. 
 The event, known in the industry as C.E.S., provides more than $80 million in revenue for the Consumer Electronics Association, an industry trade group and lobbyist. It has thrived even as Comdex, the computer industry show that once held sway here, went bust. And it is a windfall for a booming city. 
 The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority estimates that 140,000 attendees and 2,700 exhibiting companies will pump about $230 million into the city economy this year, 40 percent more than the show generated in 2001.
 But for many of the exhibiting companies, C.E.S. is something else entirely: a huge and ever-growing bill and a challenge to be heard by the industry elite over a deafening cacophony.
 ''I don't think you can buy the value you are getting from exposure to that many people,'' said Sterling Pratz, chief executive of Autonet Mobile, a month-old company trying to bring Internet access into cars.
 Mr. Pratz is bringing all six of his employees to the show and asking them to share hotel rooms to save money. ''We are putting the people who snore together,'' he said.
 Headaches for companies at C.E.S. go far beyond simply opening the corporate pocketbook. Hotels triple their rates for the event, and most of the city's 133,000 rooms are sold out for months in advance.
 A regular suite at Caesars Palace that runs $99 a night any other weekday will go for $350 during C.E.S. On the other end of the spectrum, Verizon Wireless is renting the Hardwood suite at the Palms Casino Resort -- which features a half basketball court and 10,000-square-foot room. The room goes for $25,000 a night. 
 Hewlett-Packard, a major exhibitor that has paid $40,000 to brand big plastic tote bags with its Connecting Your World slogan, has to find accommodations for 500 employees for the week. It does get a discount because it buys in bulk, a marketing executive said, but he said total show expenses easily run to several million dollars. 
 On the convention floor, booth space costs $35 a square foot for association members and $40 for anyone else. That means the electronics giant Samsung, this year's largest exhibitor, with a 25,000-square-foot booth, will pay the Consumer Electronics Association $875,000 for real estate alone.
 C.E.S. is so vast that GES Exhibition Services, the show's main contractor, lays 350,000 feet of extension cord, enough to run up and down the Empire State Building 140 times, and 1.2 million square feet of aisle carpet, enough to cover 600 average homes.
 Other charges include union labor to bring the booth materials into the hall ($70 an hour), separate union workers to actually build the booth (up to $1 million for the larger setups), Internet access ($1,195), booth ''spokesmodels'' ($300 a day plus agency fees) and water ($49 for a case of 24 bottles) to keep everyone properly hydrated.
 The toll on the expense accounts, and sanity, of technology executives does not stop there.
 Limousines are used to chauffeur many executives from the convention center to the hotels on the Strip, where companies set up hospitality suites or showrooms. But the streets are so clogged with traffic that it can take 30 minutes to travel from the convention center to a nearby hotel.
 The city's entire fleet of limousines has been booked, often for 30 percent over the regular rate, and one of the few available minibuses would cost a company's marketing department $4,656 over four days, according to one firm, Las Vegas Transportation. 
 Restaurants are sold out months in advance. Craftsteak, the star chef Tom Colicchio's steakhouse at the MGM Grand, is booked solid for the first three days and says it will do 40 percent more business than usual. The ''surf and turf'' tasting menu (Kobe beef, lobster and salmon) costs $135 a plate, but the restaurant asks for a minimum bill of $3,000 to $4,000 from large groups.
 Putting on parties is not cheap either. On Tuesday night, Dell is renting out Madame Tussaud's wax museum. Such a party, including music, food, premium liquor and photos of guests with Lucille Ball and George Washington, can cost $60,000. 
 On many nights during C.E.S. there are miniconventions in hotel ballrooms, like tomorrow's Digital Experience at Caesars Palace. Exhibition tables at the event go for up to $12,000 to companies like Sony and Microsoft, which seek to court the attending journalists. 
 Chris O'Malley, a partner at Pepcom, the company that runs Digital Experience, says the cost of operating his event at C.E.S. goes up 20 percent each year. As attendance grows, he said, prices for food, drinks, labor and ballroom rentals rise, too.
 ''Las Vegas is the ultimate supply-and-demand city,'' he said. ''The cost to host 1,500 hungry, thirsty people during the most expensive week in the city is now a little staggering.''
 Yet pretty much every company in the intermingling fields of consumer electronics, entertainment, automotive gadgets and video games arrives for C.E.S. and takes part in some way, even if it is not directly on the showroom floor. I.B.M., which says its computer business is growing indistinguishable from consumer electronics, is returning to the convention center after a 10-year hiatus and renting 3,600 square feet. 
 On the other hand, DirecTV, after renting a booth for the last decade, is leaving the show floor amid concerns about rising costs and what its co-president, John Suranyi, calls ''the hype and clutter of the experience.'' Instead, it is renting a ballroom at Caesars Palace and holding its own events during the show.
 Some companies clearly do not mind the chaos. Monster Cable, a company in Brisbane, Calif., that makes home entertainment products that in any other context would appear numbingly dull -- like cables connecting audio and video equipment -- leaps at the annual opportunity to catch a bit of Las Vegas glamour.
 This year it will put 140 employees up at the Venetian Hotel, operate two separate booths and six private demo rooms at the convention center, and put on a Monday night concert at the Venetian Palace that will unite the jazz greats George Benson and Al Jarreau.
 The company would notspecify its overall C.E.S. expenditure but said that it devoted 10 to 15 percent of its annual marketing budget to the show.
 Monster's chief executive, Noel Lee, said the investment was worthwhile because the show gave his employees a singular goal and deadline. ''If it weren't for C.E.S., we could not have grown the company the way we have,'' he said.
 Many companies say the show actually saves them money by allowing sales representatives to meet all their prospective customers in one place, instead of taking multiple business trips later in the year. 
 ''There is an amazing ability for a small company like us to go in and be able to meet with senior executives all at once,'' said Singu Srinivas, co-founder of HiWired, a three-year-old company from Needham, Mass., offering technical support to consumers and small companies.
 Last year at C.E.S., HiWired scored a promising partnership with the retailer OfficeMax after Mr. Srinivas met its executives at a cocktail party and went out with them the next night for an informal dinner. ''The nature of meetings is very different in Las Vegas,'' Mr. Srinivas said.
 This year, HiWired will bring six of its employees and will pay $20,000 to attend C.E.S. and rent a table at a press event, ShowStoppers, on Monday night.
 For some attendees, C.E.S. is not just expensive and essential -- it is also a tad bittersweet. Jason Chudnofsky, who will attend this year on behalf of the trade show and publishing firm Pulvermedia, ran the Comdex conference for 16 years before it imploded in 2003 after the technology bust. Many of the companies, speakers and attendees have since migrated to C.E.S.
 Mr. Chudnofsky thinks that even though the same growing pains that afflicted his show also plague C.E.S. -- overcrowding, draconian room rates and grueling convention floor walks -- the annual Consumer Electronics Show is not going away anytime soon.
 ''The reason is simple,'' he said. ''There is no other event that can take its place and bring the entire industry together like C.E.S.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Large exhibitors at the Las Vegas show will pay millions of dollars to be seen and heard. In addition to the above expenses, rooms that usually go for around $100 will cost more than $300 and the city's entire fleet of limousines has been booked, sometimes for far more than the usual rates. (Photographs by Jared McMillen for The New York Times
lower left, Rick Wilking/Reuters
 lower right, David McNew/Getty Images)(pg. C9)Graph: ''High-Tech's Soapbox''In the four decades since the Consumer Electronics Show began, it has become the go-to place for consumer electronics companies, which often take the opportunity to introduce new products and technologies.CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW EXHIBITORSGraph tracks the following Consumer Electronics show product debuts since 1967:Videocassette recorder (VCR), 1970Laserdisc playerCamcorderCompact disc playerDigital audio technologyMiniDiscDigital satellite systemHDTVMicrosoft XboxPlasma TV(Source by Consumer Electronics Association)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (93%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); TRENDS (65%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) Electronics; Consumer Electronics Show; Finances; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Economic Conditions and Trends; Trade Shows and Fairs; Electronics

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Digeo (Co); Consumer Electronics Assn

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (58%); BILL GATES (53%); MICHAEL DELL (50%) Brad Stone; Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



105 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE TIGHTENS DISCLOSURE RULES FOR PET PROJECTS

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The House voted on Friday to pull the shadowy tradition of Congressional earmarking into the daylight, requiring lawmakers to attach their names to the pet items they slip into spending or tax bills and certify that they have no financial interest in the provisions. 
 More than any of several ethics rules adopted by the House this week, the earmark measure could prevent the kind of corruption that led to several big scandals in recent years, including former Representative Randy Cunningham's sale of earmarks to government contractors for cash, gifts and campaign contributions.
The cost of earmarks has tripled in the last 12 years, to more than $64 billion annually. Some lawmakers treated their share of that money as personal accounts to dole out to constituents or, in many cases, campaign contributors. 
 In what lawmakers of both parties called a recognition of the backlash against such corruption in the November elections, the earmark rule the Democrats passed extends far beyond the proposal they introduced last spring and campaigned on in the fall. That proposal applied only to earmarks that are typically already well publicized. 
 It also goes further than a measure the Republicans passed just weeks before the November election. As in other efforts to change the earmarking process, the Republican leaders foundered against the opposition of the powerful Appropriations Committee, which doles out earmarks as it writes spending bills. 
 The vote on the new earmark measure was linked to a rule known as ''pay as you go'' that would prohibit the House from increasing the deficit by passing any new tax cuts or entitlement spending programs without offsetting them with spending cuts or tax increases. 
 Republicans denounced the ''pay as you go'' rule as an excuse for Democrats to increase taxes. ''I call it the Flip Wilson rule,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, referring to the comedian whose signature line was, ''The devil made me do it.''
 Still, the changes were approved by a vote of 280 to 152, with 48 Republicans joining all 232 Democrats.
 On the subject of earmarks, Mr. Pence and several other Republicans commended the Democrats as heeding the message the voters sent at the polls. ''We went through an election where voters were rightfully outraged'' by the practice of earmarking, said Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin.
 In a signal that they, too, had heard the message, the Republican minority incorporated the same changes into the token alternative they proposed before the Democratic majority passed the new House rules.
 ''I'm pleased that Democrat leaders agree with Republicans that earmark reform is a critical issue,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, said. 
 Even as the Democrats were passing the strict new disclosure rules, however, at least one influential chairman suggested that he was less than fully committed to the full breadth of their application.
 The rules would require lawmakers to disclose their sponsorship of not only spending earmarks but also narrowly focused tax or tariff reductions affecting fewer than 10 companies or people -- something the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee had resisted just as the Appropriations Committee had for spending provisions.
 After the vote on Friday on the new rule, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, the new Ways and Means Committee chairman, suggested that such resistance had not disappeared. 
 ''You have to assume that everything we have done is subject to a revisit,'' Mr. Rangel said. ''We support the speaker and her drive to get things done within 100 hours,'' he said, referring to Speaker Nancy Pelosi. But, he added, ''These things are not locked in cement.''
 Mr. Rangel and other Democrats also acknowledged that the adoption of the pay-as-you-go rules would force tough choices when it came to delivering on campaign promises like new education subsidies, some of which would fall under the rules. 
 In particular, the rules will make it more difficult to repair the alternative minimum tax, which, thanks to inflation, penalizes millions of middle-class households as well as its original targets, the rich. Repairing the tax is estimated to cost as much as $1 trillion in lost revenue over 10 years.
 Mr. Rangel said he was determined to find $1 trillion of tax revenue elsewhere to pay for the repair, as much as possible by eliminating outdated tax loopholes. ''You have to throw it right in the middle of the tax code and say, 'We are removing this,' and then you have to find the money,'' he said. 
 In a meeting with reporters, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader, promised that Democrats would cut the number of earmarks in half in the next budget, for the 2008 fiscal year. But several Democrats emphasized that the new rules would not alone reduce the amount of earmarks, but could result in more restraint.
 Lawmakers already race to take credit for earmarked projects for their districts. But it has often been impossible for outsiders to learn who sponsored earmarks no one took credit for, and unclaimed earmarks were often the ones that played a role in corruption scandals. The new rules will require disclosure of all earmarks in a bill, as well as their sponsors, their purpose and their costs. The rules will also prohibit party leaders from trading earmarks for members' votes. 
 In contrast to the past opposition of appropriations chairmen, Representative David R. Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat who now leads the committee, was a driving force behind the earmark rule, several Democrats involved in the matter said. 
 Mr. Obey said Friday that over the last 12 years of Republican control the number of earmarks in the labor, health and education spending bill had risen to 3,000, from zero.
 ''I think that is a gross exaggeration of what our staffs have the ability to review,'' he said. ''I don't want a single earmark in any bill that the committee staff cannot review to make certain that the reputation of this House and the reputation of the committee are protected.'' 
 In particular, Mr. Obey added the requirement for lawmakers requesting earmarks to clarify that they had no financial interest in the project, to prevent directing taxpayer money toward projects like the beautification of a relative's shopping mall.
 Although previous rules already prohibited such self-dealing, ''when a member has to certify publicly, it focuses the mind,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland.
 The Senate is expected to take up its own earmark rules next week. The initial proposal, based on a bill that passed the Senate last year but not the House, would apply to only a small fraction of earmarks, excluding those directed to military or other federal contracts, as well as those described in legislative reports instead of bill texts. Several lawmakers, however, have said they hope to strengthen the Senate rules, too.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of Republican senators gathered yesterday on Capitol Hill to discuss the agenda of the new Democratic majority. They are, from left, John Cornyn, Jon Kyl, Mitch McConnell, Trent Lott and John Ensign.
 A supporter wore a button yesterday celebrating Nancy Pelosi's election as speaker of the House. Democrats had an open house yesterday for staffs, supporters and lawmakers before the session's first full day of work. (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); ETHICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); SCANDALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%) Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Ethics

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); JOHN ENSIGN (79%); JOHN CORNYN (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); TRENT LOTT (59%); JON KYL (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) David D Kirkpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



106 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Bush Facing a Deep Divide With Democrats Over Talk Of Increasing Troops in Iraq 

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JEFF ZELENY; Thom Shanker and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The new Democratic leaders of the Senate and the House warned President Bush on Friday against sending additional troops to Iraq, setting the stage for what could become a major confrontation over a new war strategy.
 Mr. Bush is expected to call for more troops in a speech as soon as Wednesday, as part of a renewed effort to secure Baghdad. But Nancy Pelosi, the new speaker of the House, and Harry Reid, the new Senate majority leader, dismissed that approach as a strategy ''that has already failed.''
''Adding more combat troops will only endanger more Americans and stretch our military to the breaking point for no strategic gain,'' Mrs. Pelosi and Mr. Reid wrote in a letter to Mr. Bush. ''We are well past the point of more troops for Iraq,'' they added, urging Mr. Bush to begin a ''phased redeployment,'' or gradual withdrawal. 
 Not all Democrats agree with the position their leaders staked out in the letter on Friday, just days before Mr. Bush is expected to announce a broad strategy involving more troops, accelerated training of Iraqi forces and a large increase in economic and reconstruction aid to Iraq. But the release of the letter suggests that a major political battle may be brewing. 
 Mr. Bush appeared to be trying to head off any confrontation when he invited 13 Democratic and Republican senators to the White House Friday for what administration officials called a ''consultation'' on Iraq. 
 At a later meeting, Mr. Bush met with the former chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, who cautioned that Congress would want to take time to consider the strategy before Mr. Bush began implementing it.
 ''The president has had this opportunity now for some weeks, and I think Congress is entitled to an opportunity to independently look at the situation,'' Mr. Warner said.
 Mr. Bush has begun to put parts of his plan in place, making official on Friday some changes that will insure new faces are associated with a new approach. 
 He announced the nomination of Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus as the new commander in Iraq, to succeed Gen. George W. Casey Jr., whom Mr. Bush said he intended to elevate to Army chief of staff. 
 Mr. Bush praised General Casey, who spent much of 2006 pressing for a gradual withdrawal of troops, as ''strong and effective''; he hailed General Petraeus, who has reportedly backed an increase, as ''a soldier of vision and determination.''
 Mr. Bush is also remaking his diplomatic team, nominating John D. Negroponte, the director of national intelligence, to be deputy secretary of state. 
 Ryan C. Crocker is expected to be nominated ambassador to Iraq. His nomination would for the first time place an Arabist with experience in sectarian conflicts, mostly in Lebanon, at the head of the embassy in Baghdad.
 Administration and Congressional officials said they expected the military and diplomatic nominations to receive Senate approval, though senators might use the hearings to air dissent about any troop increase and draw attention to the perceived failings of Iraq strategy. 
 The bigger question is whether Congress will seek to stop the troop increase. In theory, it could cut off financing, the only way it could actually interfere with the commander in chief's plans. But Democrats have said they would not take such a step, largely out of fear of being accused of undercutting the troops. 
 That leaves them with only one option: holding a series of hearings, which start next week, immediately after the president's speech, that are intended to expose the divisions within the military over the wisdom of increasing troops. Many senior officers, including General Casey, have argued that adding American troops will undercut the effort to get the Iraqi government to defend itself. 
 Some Republican leaders insisted that Congress should not go down that path. ''I don't think that we should be dictating military strategy in Iraq from Capitol Hill,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican minority leader in the House.
 In addition to the 13 senators, Democrats and Republicans, invited to the White House on Friday afternoon, those attending the meeting included Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, the Joint Chiefs chairman, Gen. Peter Pace, and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser. 
 Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, who both are considering a presidential candidacy, arrived at the White House at nearly the same time. After the meeting, Mrs. Clinton did not issue a statement, while Mr. Obama spoke to reporters about his conversation with Mr. Bush. 
 ''I personally indicated that an escalation of troop levels in Iraq was a mistake and that we need a political accommodation, rather than a military approach to the sectarian violence there,'' he said. ''I think he recognizes that the status quo is unacceptable and has to change.''
 Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, said she would consider supporting an increase in troops for a short time if the president could articulate ''specific opportunities for success,'' particularly cities that troops would be dispatched to and how long they would stay. Ms. Landrieu also said she would need to be convinced that there was a broader solution to limit American involvement in Iraq. 
 ''The American people's patience is wearing thin with the vagueness,'' she said, speaking to reporters as she left the White House. 
 In interviews after the meeting, several senators said they could not tell whether Mr. Bush had made a decision whether to call for a troop increase. The senators described the meeting as frank but not confrontational. But even those who have supported the administration's Iraq policy said it was time for a change of course.
 ''I don't know that the American people will see the surge as a new direction,'' said Senator Ben Nelson, a Democrat from Nebraska. ''The American people want to see a change in direction, not just a change in slogans.''
 Senator Blanche Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat at the meeting, said an increase in troops would face considerable scrutiny in Congress from Democrats and Republicans. 
 ''I asked the president, 'Where would that surge come from?' '' Ms. Lincoln said. ''He said that was a very good question.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, at lectern, with other Senate Democrats, explained a letter yesterday that he and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, sent President Bush urging him not to add troops in Iraq. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%) United States Armament and Defense; Military Strategy and Tactics

PERSON: HARRY REID (90%); NANCY PELOSI (90%); JOHN WARNER (78%); DAVID PETRAEUS (78%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (58%) David E Sanger; Jeff Zeleny; George W (Pres) Bush; Harry (Sen) Reid; Nancy (Speaker) Pelosi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007



107 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3251 words

HEADLINE: The Doctor Is In

BYLINE: By RON STODGHILL

 BODY:
AMONG a cast of hospital patients recounting their injuries and treatments on a DVD playing in the president's office of the NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System, Eugene Stolowski, a former New York firefighter, stands out. Mr. Stolowski recalls leaping from a burning building in the Bronx and plunging about 50 feet before he slammed into the ground. His voice trembling, he praises a team of NewYork-Presbyterian surgeons for sparing him from paralysis, even death, by reattaching his spinal column to his neck in early 2005.
 ''I live today because of NewYork-Presbyterian,'' Mr. Stolowski says, weeping. ''And I am here to be with my daughter, wife and my twins because of what they did for me.''
As Dr. Herbert Pardes, NewYork-Presbyterian's president, listens to Mr. Stolowski's tale, his own eyes, limned by silver-framed glasses, well up. Although he has trotted out this particular DVD on countless occasions for hospital employees, visitors, reporters and others whom he is intent on winning over, Dr. Pardes says his emotions are real, his response unorchestrated. 
 ''This one gets to me every time,'' he says of Mr. Stolowski's account. ''It's so powerful. And really, it shows what this hospital is all about.''
 It also shows much of what Dr. Pardes is all about: rescuing the embattled image of modern medicine with a large dose of human compassion married to effective management, a quality he says is frequently absent from a health care culture that is sidetracked all too often by concerns about the bottom line. ''I've never been able to walk past a problem. I've got to fix it,'' said Dr. Pardes, his words wrapped in a heavy Bronx accent. ''This profession is first about helping patients survive -- always has been. Unfortunately, I think we can lose sight of that sometimes.''
 Dr. Pardes, a well-regarded psychiatrist and a former director of the National Institute of Mental Health, says he wants NewYork-Presbyterian to become a model for top-tier medical care. His prescription for what ails his industry is an aggressive, patient-focused crusade that he believes will restore confidence and financial vitality to one of the nation's oldest and most crucial institutions: the American hospital. His efforts -- from personally visiting patients' bedsides, insisting that nurses memorize all their patients' and family members' names and ordering that rooms and lobbies be painted in soothing pastel hues -- have struck a powerful chord among patients and colleagues alike. 
 ''There are very few people like Herb who have a national perspective on our industry and know how to bring that knowledge to a local institution,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a trade group. ''He is able to put a human face on large public-policy questions that people are passionate about.''
 Industry experts also credit Dr. Pardes's patient-centric efforts, along with vigilant fund-raising and rigid financial controls, as linchpins in bailing out one of the largest, messiest health care mergers in history -- the 1997 melding of New York Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Pardes became the merged hospital's chief executive more than a year later.
 ''Herb recognized the cultural differences between the two organizations, preserved the best of each predecessor, while simultaneously creating a whole new organization,'' said Thomas M. Priselac, president of Cedars-Sinai Health System in Los Angeles. ''That was not an easy thing to pull off.''
 Some industry analysts wonder whether the dramatic turnaround of two rival New York institutions is an anomaly rather than a blueprint for remaking other ailing hospitals nationally. Some critics, too, have argued that under Dr. Pardes, NewYork-Presbyterian is a merger mostly in name only, and that the predecessor hospitals continue to function as separate institutions. 
 Similarly, Dr. Pardes has been unable to convince some that Americans have a better future with health care being delivered by behemoths like NewYork-Presbyterian. Critics contend that Dr. Pardes, along with leaders of other merged medical centers, is leveraging enviable economies of scale in ways that weaken smaller rival hospitals and ultimately reduce patients' health care choices. 
 ''What's good for a hospital is not necessarily good for patients,'' said Alan Sager, a professor of public policy and management at the Boston University School of Public Health. ''In the absence of a free market, doing well financially and growing institutionally doesn't mean you're doing a good job.''
 Still, during a time when most urban hospitals have struggled, NewYork-Presbyterian has thrived. While some aspects of Dr. Pardes's kinder, gentler philosophy may be hard to measure, the hospital posted revenue of $2.6 billion in 2005, up from $1.7 billion in 2000. (The hospital, a nonprofit organization, has yet to report its 2006 results.) The hospital has also been named to U.S. News and World Report's ranking of top medical institutions for six years in a row (the only New York City hospital to have such a run) and was ranked last year as the overall leader in New York magazine's ''Best Hospitals'' survey (which tabulated its results based on peer reviews). 
 All of that has won Dr. Pardes, 72, a solid cadre of admirers. As Charlotte M. Ford, a vice chairwoman of the NewYork-Presbyterian board of trustees, gushed: ''We think Herb's got all the answers. When he talks we want to hear everything he's got to say because we know he cares about both the business and patient care, and wants each to be perfect.''
 THE medical system that Dr. Pardes oversees is massive, employing about 50,000 people. The ultimate goal, Dr. Pardes said, is to marshal all of that talent to allow NewYork-Presbyterian to compete on an international platform.
 ''There's no reason why we shouldn't have a world-class medical center in New York,'' he said. ''People shouldn't have to go to the Mayo Clinic or Johns Hopkins for the best health care. They should be able to get it right here.'' 
 Many of New York's biggest charities and individuals agree. According to hospital officials, since taking the reins of the hospital seven years ago, Dr. Pardes has raised nearly $1 billion, a fund used to build and renovate health care facilities for the medical center. Last April, NewYork-Presbyterian broke ground on the Vivian and Seymour Milstein Family Heart Center, a six-floor structure aimed at providing world-class cardiac care. The ceremony included former President Bill Clinton, who underwent heart bypass surgery at the hospital in 2004.
 So ubiquitous is Dr. Pardes on the fund-raising scene that some of his colleagues have taken to calling him ''Dr. New York.'' He shrugs off the attention.
 ''Look, if I go out and raise lots of money, somebody whose dad is a Wall Street C.E.O. is going to get better care, but so will the kid from a poor family,'' he said. ''This hospital can't do the stuff we want to do without philanthropic dollars.'' 
 And what kind of stuff is that? ''My goal is pretty simple: I want to create a hospital that is the opposite of the one I experienced as a kid.''
 In the early 1940s, at roughly the same time he was learning to spell the word ''hospital,'' Herbert Pardes was admitted to one. At 7 years old, he learned that he had Perthes disease, a rare illness that causes a sudden, debilitating stiffening of the hip. It left him hospitalized in a full-body cast for 10 months. He was traumatized by the experience, he said, by a battery of humorless physicians who stuck needles in him without explanation, by draconian hospital policies that limited his parents' visits to hourlong visits a couple of times a week and by the cold and sterile atmosphere. 
 As a child, Dr. Pardes was also struck by the contrast in how he and other patients were treated, compared with the pampering his own parents bestowed upon guests in the borscht belt hotels they ran in the Catskills. He had learned the concept of guest services firsthand, having earned his allowance selling dime sodas in the lobby, bell-hopping and performing other odd jobs at his parents' hotels. Eventually, he would spend his summers waiting tables in the Catskills.
 DURING his childhood, the American hospital -- or the notion of a single bricks-and-mortar institution devoted to providing in-patient health care -- was just emerging from its own infancy. Throughout the previous century and in the early 1900s, there were only two hospitals in the United States -- Pennsylvania Hospital, founded by Benjamin Franklin in Philadelphia in 1751 and New York Hospital, founded in 1771. Both mainly focused care on the local indigent population. In most areas, poor and working-class citizens were treated in small facilities called almshouses, attended by physicians who would check on patients a few times each week. Wealthy and middle-class families received medical treatment at home. 
 But at the start of the 20th century, with specialized medical training and resources growing more abundant, the number of hospitals mushroomed. By 1920, there were 4,300 hospitals housing 420,000 beds in the United States, according to Charles E. Rosenberg's popular historical examination of the nation's hospitals, ''The Care of Strangers: The Rise of America's Hospital System.'' Even then, hospitals, according to Mr. Rosenberg's book, were already being criticized as ''socially insensitive institutions and economically dysfunctional'' and torn by competing roles as health care providers with a charitable mission that were also profit-driven enterprises. 
 With his childhood hospital stay lingering in his memory, Dr. Pardes decided to pursue a career in medicine after graduating summa cum laude from Rutgers. He took a job as an assistant in the nursing department at St. John's Episcopal Hospital in New York, then enrolled at the State University of New York in Brooklyn, where he received a medical degree in 1960. Initially, he planned to work as an internist or a surgeon, but he says he decided against it when, in performing surgery on dogs -- an essential part of the university's curriculum -- he noticed that his canine patients were always the first to die.
 He chose to study mental health instead, completing an internship and residency in psychiatry at Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn. Plainspoken, exceptionally energetic and personable, Dr. Pardes ascended quickly to the top of the medical field. He amassed awards, citations and national leadership positions, including a 1978 appointment by President Jimmy Carter as director of the National Institute of Mental Health and the leadership of several global health care initiatives. He also served as the assistant surgeon general for President Carter and President Ronald Reagan.
 In 1999, Dr. Pardes received a call from a board member at NewYork-Presbyterian. The fledgling merger between New York Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital, completed more than a year earlier, was threatening to tank. Annual profits at the combined enterprise had plunged to $2.5 million in 1999 from $10.4 million the previous year, while the two hospitals' physicians clashed in fierce turf battles. The board wanted to know whether Dr. Pardes, who was serving as dean of Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons, would consider replacing Dr. David B. Skinner, then the chief executive of the combined hospital and the architect of the merger. (Dr. Skinner died in 2003.)
 ''The fact of the matter is that most mergers don't work because of huge egos and warfare,'' said Peter A. Georgescu, a vice chairman of the NewYork-Presbyterian board of trustees and former chief executive of Young & Rubicam. ''It's just human nature. But in the end, you either grow and improve or go down.''
 AT the outset, at least, the marriage between the hospitals seemed natural. Both were teaching hospitals facing similar struggles, including shrinking government support, sliding market share, more beds than patients and a dearth of primary-care practitioners. Dr. Skinner predicted annual savings of $60 million from consolidating the services of the two hospitals. But Dr. Skinner, say those who worked with him, underestimated the extent of the rivalry between the two institutions.
 New York Hospital earned its stripes treating thousands of soldiers during the Civil War. The hospital hit its stride at the turn of the century after joining forces with Cornell University Medical College -- a partnership that eventually spawned such innovations as Pap tests, L-dopa drug treatment for Parkinson's disease and the elimination of kidney stones through laser surgery. But by the mid-1980s, the hospital began to buckle under competitive pressures and two major malpractice suits, including a 1987 case brought by the family of Andy Warhol, the artist, who died after undergoing routine gallbladder surgery. The hospital agreed to pay an undisclosed sum to the Warhol family to settle the claim.
 Presbyterian Hospital, for its part, also boasted a proud history, but suffered from a different problem in the years leading up to the merger. James Lenox founded the hospital in 1868 after other New York hospitals denied treatment to his African-American servant. It became a prestigious institution and was home to the Babies and Children's Hospital, where the first pediatric heart transplant surgery was performed. But after World War II, the demographics of its northern Manhattan neighborhood shifted toward poorer residents, and the hospital's more affluent patients sought treatment elsewhere, according to the hospital. From the late 1950s to the late 1970s, the hospital's proportion of indigent patients -- funneled to Presbyterian Hospital as other smaller hospitals in New York shut down -- climbed to one-third from one-tenth, hospital officials said. 
 In taking the helm of NewYork-Presbyterian, Dr. Pardes, the nation's first psychiatrist to run a major medical center and hospital, encountered a corporate version of a dispirited patient plopped on his sofa. The merged entity he inherited was gargantuan, its work force able to fill three Madison Square Gardens. Its organizational chart -- with 52 hospitals, nursing facilities and specialty care centers and five campuses -- was labyrinthine.
 Dr. Pardes's turnaround strategy, by comparison, was relatively simple: restructure the management team to make hospital administrators more nimble and accountable for performance, root out excessive spending to improve profit margins and bolster revenue by becoming the hospital of choice in the city. 
 As it turned out, the hospital's most dire issue was cultural, Dr. Pardes said. Worried about losing power in the merged enterprise, for example, physicians from each predecessor hospital had banded together and refused to relinquish any area of care to the other hospital. Dr. Pardes was witnessing similar tensions play out in 1998 when Mount Sinai and New York University Hospital fused their medical schools. 
 ''I think it was a bad idea to try to mesh those cultures,'' Dr. Pardes said. ''N.Y.U. faculty had a sense of status, a certain view of themselves, and felt that Mount Sinai's program was still too young and not yet worthy of the association. It was like making the Yankees and Mets merge.'' Mount Sinai officials declined to comment.
 Other than merging all of the hospitals' administrative functions, Dr. Pardes has moved gingerly in consolidating NewYork-Presbyterian's various units -- partly, he says, to maintain easy geographic access to various patient populations but also to avoid infighting that would detract from the hospital's mission. For instance, Dr. Pardes has not lobbied to integrate the Columbia and Cornell medical schools (the schools are not owned by the hospital), and has preserved separate centers in such clinical areas as psychiatry, neurosurgery and pediatrics -- despite redundancies in personnel resources, and similar levels of prestige of many departments. 
 ''We would have had all sorts of political firefights,'' Dr. Pardes said. ''It would have hurt us more than helped us.'' On the other hand, he melded the hospital's two vascular surgery units solely to create a senior management post for a talented surgeon who was considering a position at Johns Hopkins. ''You can't have a cookie-cutter approach in this,'' he said. ''In any consolidation, personalities are as important as anything else.''
 In other matters, Dr. Pardes has proved less compromising. Not long after taking over, he attended the hospital's corporate retreat and left the event astonished by its extravagance. Afterward, Dr. Pardes inquired about the cost and learned that its organizer had spent nearly $1 million putting on the single-day event. He promptly asked the employee to step down. She resigned, hospital officials said.
 ''She was making herself look important, and not doing anything for the hospital,'' Dr. Pardes said of the staffer. ''The only thing I'm interested in is helping patients survive. This is about more than making and spending lots of money. If that's what you want, go into the hedge fund profession.'' 
 Colleagues say Dr. Pardes's management style swings unpredictably between gut decisions and implementing corporate platitudes from gurus like John F. Welch Jr., the former chief executive of General Electric. ''It's always a balance between having the right level of concern for patients, but also having the right business skills to make the place strong,'' Dr. Pardes said.
 HE has also spread his professional network in unusual directions, nurturing, for example, a relationship with a powerful local union leader, Dennis Rivera, who wants to organize a large block of NewYork-Presbyterian's employees. Mr. Rivera's union, Local 1199 United Healthcare Workers East, represents 275,000 health care workers, including 5,500 at NewYork-Presbyterian's Upper Manhattan campus. (The union has been unsuccessful in trying to organize 1,200 workers at another of the hospital's Manhattan campuses.)
 Despite this fact, Dr. Pardes and Mr. Rivera can be spotted playing tennis on weekend afternoons and hanging out at basketball games. Mr. Rivera, too, has reached out to Dr. Pardes for medical counseling regarding seriously ill friends. ''I have turned to him during some difficult moments in my life,'' Mr. Rivera said. ''I would say it's an unusual relationship in that way. But Herb is different because he's not in some ivory tower. He's accessible.'' 
 As for his interest in bolstering Local 1199's membership at NewYork-Presbyterian, Mr. Rivera said the subject has never arisen in his conversations with Dr. Pardes: ''I expect at one point they will become members of our union, but it's their choice. The problem in getting them to join has not been Herb, but our inability to convince them that they have a better future with us.''
 Although he remains attuned to the political and public relations environment in which his hospital operates, Dr. Pardes seems more focused on building a legacy inside the hospital rather than outside of it. After the DVD featuring Mr. Stolowski, the injured fireman, stopped playing in his office recently, Dr. Pardes walked over to a conference table and rested his hand on a stack of letters. 
 ''These were written to me by patients,'' he said, thumbing through them. ''It's just amazing, some of the stories. I mean, really amazing stories.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System referred incorrectly to the history of hospitals that was chronicled in ''The Care of Strangers: The Rise of America's Hospital System,'' by Charles E. Rosenberg. The number of hospitals in the United States grew from only two in 1800, according to the book; there were not only two in the early 1900s. And a census of hospitals in 1909, not 1920, showed more than 4,300 hospitals housing more than 420,000 beds.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Herbert Pardes, right, visits Cornelious Raynor in the cardiac care unit of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. Dr. Pardes is known for his patient-centric strategy. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center is part of the merged health care system. (Photo by Charles Manley)
NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital was formed in 1997 by the merger of New York Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital. It includes the Weill Cornell Medical Center, foreground. (Photo by Charles Manley)
 Dr. Herbert Pardes, second from left, the nation's first psychiatrist to run a major medical center, has raised nearly $1 billion since taking the reins seven years ago. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PARALYSIS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Medicine and Health; Finances

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%) New York-Presbyterian Hospital

PERSON: Herbert (Dr) Pardes; Ron Stodghill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



108 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Where's the Party? In Emerging Markets

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
BOND investors seldom find themselves reveling in fancy, stocklike gains. But those who have been buying the debt of Brazil, Russia and other emerging-market countries have been having just such a celebration. 
 The several dozen mutual funds specializing in emerging-market bonds -- corporate as well as government -- led all categories of fixed-income investment in 2006, climbing 11.1 percent, according to Morningstar, the fund tracker.
In fact, the bonds of this diverse group of countries, once shunned as prone to default or in need of rescue, generated one of the fattest returns of any class of financial assets, including emerging-market stocks and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, over the last 10 years, according to Emerging Portfolio Fund Research in Boston.
 ''It's been an extraordinary run,'' one reflecting a ''perfect good storm,'' said Mark Venezia, portfolio manager of the Eaton Vance Strategic Income fund and Eaton Vance's director of global fixed-income. 
 The rebound began from a very low point, after Mexico's devaluation of the peso in December 1994; the currency plunged 50 percent in a week. The resulting contagion set off a crisis of confidence in Argentina that accelerated a restructuring of that country's banking system. There were other scares, involving Asian countries in 1997 and Russia the next year, but eventually many governments restored order to the currency markets, introducing fiscal discipline and allowing their crisis-prone fixed currencies to float. 
 More recently, booming world demand for commodities -- an example being China's explosive growth producing a bonanza for Chile, which supplies copper -- and low United States interest rates have added to the appeal of emerging-market debt.
 Traditionally, said Brad Durham, a managing director at Emerging Portfolio Fund Research, which specializes in investment flows, ''you're supposed to sell emerging markets when the Fed starts raising rates,'' which it did in mid-2004. But these markets ''soldiered through,'' he said, ''primarily due to the fact that they've become a lot less vulnerable to the growth cycle.''
 Michael J. Conelius, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Emerging Markets Bond fund in Baltimore, concurred. ''Emerging countries have come a long way,'' he said. ''The main things, in terms of fiscal discipline and paying down debt, are all still in place, so the average credit quality is getting better.'' 
 Ratings upgrades outnumbered downgrades in 2006 by about 10 to 1 for the third consecutive year, Mr. Conelius added. The upgrades reflect the widely shared view that emerging markets are in their best fiscal shape since before this asset class got off the ground in the mid-1980s.
 ''A lot of governments and policy makers are acting much more responsibly,'' Mr. Durham said. 
 As a result, the broad market for emerging-market debt has developed to the point that a crisis in Thailand last month -- the government introduced, then eased, controls on capital to prevent speculative inflows from pushing the baht too high -- caused scarcely a ripple. Neither did a disputed election in Mexico or a restructuring by Belize, in the only default of the year. 
 Investors poured a record $6.2 billion into emerging-market debt last year, compared with $5.7 billion in 2005, $1.9 billion in 2004, $3.1 billion in 2003 and $672 million in 2002, according to Mr. Durham's firm. From 1995 through 2001, they reduced such holdings.
 Prices are now high enough that many specialists have become cautious, particularly about debt denominated in dollars. Average yields on the J. P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus (EMBI+) were driven down at year-end to 1.66 percentage points above those of United States Treasury securities, with Brazil's risk premium slipping just before Christmas to less than two points for the first time on record. 
 ''The downside from an investor's standpoint is that the bonds are more and more expensive,'' Mr. Conelius said. ''So the first thing I would say to a potential investor is that while the countries are in better shape, don't expect the strong returns that you've had or you've seen in the past several years because that's just not sustainable. They're safer credits and they're going to perform more like safer credits, so just reset your expectations in terms of return.'' 
 Mr. Venezia of Eaton Vance, though acknowledging that prices could rise for another year or so, put it this way: ''There's an asymmetry of risk here. You can make a little but you can lose a lot.'' Emerging markets are so flush that governments have had the wherewithal to buy back external bonds and to float new loans at home.
 ''They're able to shift their borrowing to the domestic market and their own currency,'' said Curtis Mewbourne, co-head of emerging market business at Pimco, the bond specialist based in Newport Beach, Calif.
 Indeed, local market debt -- as opposed to sovereign debt -- is the fastest-growing part of the business and includes issues of corporations in emerging markets. ''It's probably overtaken dollar debt as the preferred form of issuance of emerging-market countries,'' Mr. Venezia said.
 The appeal is clear. ''You're getting higher interest rates in many of these countries, and you're getting diversification away from the U.S. dollar,'' which has been weak lately, Mr. Mewbourne said. This is quite a change for securities that only a decade ago could scarcely be marketed. 
 In fact, the payoff in many cases is high enough to rival that of the stock market.
 ''In some ways this is an equity substitute almost, a kind of safe way to move some money offshore and get a higher return,'' Mr. Mewbourne said. Most American investors, he contended, are overconcentrated in their own country's securities and could benefit from more foreign exposure. 
 Experts say the only practical way for ordinary or even well-heeled individuals to gain access to the market for emerging debt, which can involve complex administrative and tax issues, is through mutual funds. But there is a wide variety of fund options. Pimco, for example offers a somewhat risky local-market fund that returned about 12 percent last year, a traditional dollar-denominated sovereign fund that returned about 10 percent and a low-risk diversified global income fund that returned about 8 percent. The income fund contains mainly corporate bonds, with only a portion from emerging markets.
 This points to the need for prospective investors to choose judiciously. ''You can't just pick out a mutual fund that has the words 'emerging market fixed income' in it,'' Mr. Venezia cautioned. ''You have to really study them'' to see what the portfolios include.
 And some emerging-market securities remain highly speculative. ''The average fund has large weightings in some pretty scary markets,'' Mr. Durham said: for example, close to 8 percent in Argentina, which had a return of 51 percent last year, triple that of any other component of the EMBI+, but had a huge default in 2001.
 AND at least two managers -- T. Rowe Price and Franklin Templeton -- are making a sizable bet on, of all places, Iraq.
 ''This is a huge long-term opportunity,'' Mr. Conelius said, acknowledging that his is a decidedly contrarian view. ''There is such untapped economic potential and wealth in that country and things could hardly get worse.'' Because of previous default, debt is low and can be serviced each year with just two days of oil exports, Mr. Conelius figures. The market premium for Iraq's debt is about 5.25 percentage points above that of United States Treasuries, making it a seemingly better credit than the debt of Ecuador, which has said it wants to restructure.
 But that is still far too risky for Mr. Durham. He noted that Iraq's debt accounted for about one-half of 1 percent of average emerging-market bond fund portfolios, and called even that ''a massive overweight.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker in Valparaiso, Chile, inspects copper bound for Asia. World demand for commodities has added to the appeal of emerging-market debt. (Photo by Eliseo Fernandez/Reuters)Chart: ''Onward and Upward''Emerging-market debt, which has not had a major downturn since Russia defaulted on its debt in 1998, continues to turn in big gains.Graph tracks total return since Dec. 31, 1997 (emerging-market bonds -- J.P. Morgan EMBI+, domestic bonds* and S. & P. 500).* Lehman aggregate index(Sources by J.P. Morgan
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BOND FUNDS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DEVALUATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (92%); CHILE (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



109 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Retooling Is Distinctly Japanese

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
WHAT'S up with Japan? China's ascent has diverted attention from East Asia's other formidable power. With an economy still the world's second-largest ($4.7 trillion) after the United States, and one of the top three or four militaries, Japan is not to be taken lightly.
 In the 1980s, Japan's economic tsunami appeared set to engulf every country in its path. In the 1990s, just as deliriously, its economy receded. Ideologues of all stripes had a field day, because what looked like a state-guided model first produced stunning success (nearly a quarter-century of around 8 percent annual growth after 1950) and then stunning failure (more than a decade of stagnation after a late-1980s stock market and real estate crash). 
 Then came another surprise. Since early 2002, Japan has been on a steady rebound.
 ''Japan Remodeled'' (Cornell, $19.95) by Steven K. Vogel, political science professor at the University of California, Berkeley, gets beyond the punditry by presenting a social-science understanding tested against executive interviews, company case studies and foreign comparisons. It is not page-turning reportage. But the indulgent reader is rewarded with the best analysis in English of Japan's distinctive market economy.
 Dr. Vogel dispels two potent myths. First, he shows that all through its lost decade of the 1990s, as well as recently, Japan has experienced not paralysis but a frenzy of restructuring. Japanese enterprises expanded merit-based compensation, sold subsidiaries and moved production abroad. The government modified the pension system, revised corporate law, removed a pileup of bad loans and even reorganized itself.
 Second, Dr. Vogel notes that a crisis-ridden Japan may have given the impression of adopting American-style deregulation and shareholder value by privatizing public corporations, naming outside directors to boards and experimenting with stock options. But just as 1980s America did not turn Japanese, he says, ''a funny thing happened on Japan's way to the U.S. model: it never got there.'' Japan remodeled its own way.
 Japan's distinctiveness derives not from innate culture but from history and politics. In 19th-century Japan, as well as in Germany, industrializers sought to avert the socialist inclinations of working classes by resorting to extreme repression or paternalism. This contrasted with the British and American market model that was developing amid more limited government.
 Germany and Japan had liberal capital markets, mirroring the Anglo-American model, but in the 1930s they abandoned lower-cost capital for the security gained from corporate reliance on a main bank.
 After World War II, the newly democratic West Germany and Japan moved to stakeholder partnerships for labor -- encouraged by the American occupation, which sought to promote social solidarity in cold-war allies to inoculate their societies against Communism. The upshot has been a German-Japanese ''social market'' alternative to the Anglo-American ''free market.''
 In both pairings, governments intervene in the economy, but in different ways. In the United States, government policies formerly shifted vast wealth and opportunity to the middle; lately they have redistributed them upward. Germany and Japan integrate labor into corporate governance and afford considerable employment security. While American corporations benefit from nearly absolute freedom to hire and fire, Japanese companies benefit from low turnover. (That's why it's called political economy.)
 Dr. Vogel reveals that American-style liberalization elicits ambivalence in Japan, even among the putative beneficiaries. Export-oriented manufacturers, for example, refrain from terminating workers to avoid damaging their domestic image or employee productivity. ''We could not lay off workers in Japan,'' a vice president at NEC tells Dr. Vogel. ''We have 150,000 workers, and most of them have families. If we laid them off, the local government would get after us, and the media, too.''
 Japanese companies also spurn mergers and acquisitions as disruptive and gimmicky. And they eschew supplier-hopping. ''If you just procure what is cheapest,'' a Nissan vice chairman tells Dr. Vogel, ''then what do you do about the cost of developing the next technology?''
 Business elites in Japan tend to follow a collaborative and long-term approach, Dr. Vogel concludes, because it provides a valued sense of social harmony and equity, and because that is how they make profits.
 The Japan model discriminates against women (who predominate in the temporary work force), fosters industrial collusion and cheats consumers out of cheaper imports, Dr. Vogel notes. He also offers a chart indicating that from 1975 to 2004, annual equity returns in Japan have consistently been below those of the United States.
 Some American companies downsize even during upturns as profits soar. Profit-squeezed Japanese companies grant job security in exchange for cost-lowering wage restraint. If shareholders -- including ever more foreigners -- complain, Japanese firms announce more cuts than they will carry out.
 Liberalized pockets do exist in Japan, such as in telecom. And the country's post-1990s economic model has become more varied internally, partly from greater exposure to outside practices. The country has also become more openly differentiated by income.
 Japanese companies have become more discriminating in their ties with banks, suppliers and labor. But if cross-holding of shares among corporations has declined in many cases, it has risen in others. ''Temp labor'' is proliferating, yet lifetime employment may be going up. Japan is reinventing itself, and it is still recognizably Japan -- an economic giant that does not organize its economy the Anglo-American way.
 Still, could world economic integration eventually eradicate broad system differences? Not likely. The global economy is a set of interrelated national market systems that must compete or suffer the consequences. But amid today's profound pressures for convergence under American might, divergence persists. This is the often overlooked context for contemplating how China has boomed for three decades while flouting the supposed laws of market governance. 
 Communist-ruled China may be awaiting its economic comeuppance for being unfree. Or it may be on a winding path to a stable, prosperous market model of nationally specific institutions, drawing on others' and its own experience. Certainly China means business. Just ask the Japanese.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); COLD WAR (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); TRENDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (71%); CASE STUDIES (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); WORLD WAR II (60%); MERIT PAY (50%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

PERSON: Steven K (Prof) Vogel; Stephen Kotkin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



110 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: A Single-Payer Path For American Health Care?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Health Care Problem? Check the American Psyche'' (Economic View, Dec. 31), about public opposition to a single-payer health care system: 
 Perhaps the biggest barrier to adopting this system here, despite the many advantages, is that private insurance companies and other interests profiting handsomely from the current system's myriad plans and complexity will work very hard to defeat any proposal for change to such a plan. We saw this before with President Bill Clinton's proposal, which did not even cut the private insurers out of the picture.
Many Americans do believe that a single-payer plan will work; unfortunately, their voices will be drowned out by deep-pocket businesses and those ideologically opposed to anything other than the private sector, with its alleged ''efficiencies.''

Mark Joy, M.D.
Brooklyn, Jan. 1

To the Editor:
 The praise in the column for the Canadian health care system leaves out two important words: waiting lists. A health care system where the federal government needs to repeatedly debate the longstanding problem of long patient waits to see specialists or for surgery may be cost effective, but the cost savings are certainly not to the benefit of the patient.

Lawrence K. Harris, M.D.
Naples, Fla., Jan. 2

To the Editor:
 To the suggestion of a single-payer system as the solution to what ails health care, I offer a one word response: OPEC. To amplify, why would anyone think that a single buyer will lead to a more efficient allocation of resources anymore than a single seller would? 
 What might be more useful is to encourage -- nay, mandate -- common standards to encourage conversion of all data (financial, medical and so on) to electronic format. We have different phone companies whose data moves seamlessly from one provider to another. Why can't the same be said of participants in medicine?

Ralph M. Segall
Evanston, Ill., Jan. 2

To the Editor:
 A modified version of a single-payer system may provide better solutions to problems inherent in health care. The key is uniform criteria and procedures.
 I spent my career in salaried, mostly academic medicine, so I have no personal ax to grind about doctor's fees. However, I have seen Medicare and managed-care fees repeatedly reduced or constrained without consideration of the provider's increasing costs. 
 The problem in health care is excessive demand and unrestrained use of testing and technology. This is compounded by myriad managed-care organizations with differing rules and paperwork. A modified single-payer plan would have a single set of criteria for health care and for use of technology. Providers would have one set of rules, one set of paperwork.
 Health care plans could still be competitive on benefits, provider fees and premiums. The individual plans could serve as third-party administrators for medical reviews and claim processing. Appeals would be resolved by the single payer -- a better name is probably ''single administrator'' -- using the same criteria for all.

Seymour Herschberg, M.D.
Manhattan, Dec. 31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); MEDICARE (53%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Tests and Testing

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%) Mark (Dr) Joy; Lawrence K (Dr) Harris; Ralph M Segall; Seymour (Dr) Herschberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



111 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: For American Investors, New Paths to South Africa

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
SOUTH AFRICA is a nation of contradictions. Crowded high-end malls, political stability and the country's designation as host of the 2010 World Cup reflect a sense of optimism and progress. And yet 16 years after the end of apartheid, this nation of 45 million continues to grapple with widespread poverty and H.I.V., which affects about 12 percent of the population.
 Signs of the nation's growing prosperity as well as its continuing challenges are evident at the gleaming Johannesburg Stock Exchange, whose bathrooms feature boxes with free condoms to stop the spread of AIDS. 
 Founded in 1887, the Johannesburg exchange is the 16th-largest stock market in the world, with a total capitalization of $598 billion. ''It stacks up with all the world's major stock markets,'' said Jonathan Auerbach, managing director of Auerbach Grayson, an international brokerage firm based in New York. ''It's fully transparent, and offers investors a great deal of liquidity.''
 In recent years, while American investors have focused on emerging markets like China and India, ''South Africa has generally been underweighted in emerging-market funds,'' said Brad Durham, managing director of EmergingPortfolio.com, a fund research company in Cambridge, Mass. At the end of November, global emerging-market equity funds, on average, had about an 8 percent weighting in South Africa.
 But investor interest is rising in the exchange's offerings. ''Foreign investors account for between 20 and 30 percent of the ownership, and about half of the daily volume,'' said Herman van Papendorp, South Africa equity strategist at Citigroup in Johannesburg. And American investors now have more opportunities to gain exposure to the market, beyond buying the American depository receipts of South African blue chips that trade on United States exchanges. 
 The iShares MSCI South Africa Index fund is an exchange-traded fund based on the MSCI South Africa Index, whose 50 holdings capture 85 percent of the market's capitalization. In 2006, the fund, with $419 million in assets, had inflows of $155 million, and rose 19.5 percent. It had an impressive three-year annualized return of nearly 30 percent.
 ''The South African market has been very strong, due to economic growth and the continuing commodities boom,'' said Jane Leung, senior portfolio manager of iShares MSCI South Africa Index.
 Various actively managed mutual funds also offer exposure to the South African market. According to data from Morningstar, 20 mutual funds based in the United States had 10 percent or more of their assets in South African companies last fall.
 The Franklin Gold and Precious Metals fund, which had assets of $987 million as of Nov. 31, had the highest concentration: 24.4 percent as of Sept. 30, according to Morningstar. ''The large South African weighting in the fund has less to do with my outlook on the country and more to do with my outlook on platinum and palladium,'' said Steve Land, who manages the fund.
 South Africa produces more than 75 percent of the world's platinum and 30 percent of its palladium. In the third quarter last year, significant holdings included the South African companies Anglo Platinum and Impala Platinum.
 South Africa is home to several large and globally competitive resource companies, said Nicholas Smithie, manager of the $1 billion MFS Emerging Markets Equity fund. His holdings include Sasol, an energy company that has developed methods to turn coal into liquid fuels. In an age of high gas prices, ''Sasol has technology that is particularly valuable around the world,'' Mr. Smithie said.
 Companies in commodity sectors including gold, platinum and coal account for about 40 percent of the market capitalization of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. But the stock market has become more diversified in recent years. The commodities boom, along with the growing integration of the majority black population into the economy, has helped fuel consumer demand. For the last three years, the economy has expanded at a rate of 4.5 to 5 percent, according to Citigroup. 
 ''We like South Africa mainly for what we think is a continuing story of an emerging black middle class,'' said Christopher Smart, manager of the $500 million Pioneer Emerging Markets fund, which devotes about 12 percent of its assets to South African stocks. 
 Retailers have been benefiting from pent-up demand for durable consumer products like appliances and furniture. Some banks have had success offering mortgages, auto loans and credit cards to consumers they once shunned. As of Nov. 30, holdings of the Pioneer Emerging Markets fund included the Standard Bank Group and the financial services conglomerate FirstRand. 
 Mr. Smithie of MFS said that his fund added positions in South African retailers in the fourth quarter. Besides the commodities surge and the growth in consumer spending, analysts say, a third trend is benefiting large South African companies: their ability to expand into sub-Saharan Africa. As such, the South African market is becoming a proxy for much of the continent.
 ''There are a number of South African companies now that have taken a position that they're going to be pan-African,'' Mr. Auerbach said. With their ability to tap into Western capital and their experience operating on the continent, South African companies have significant advantages over rivals from Europe and the United States. Standard Bank, for example, is acquiring banks throughout Africa. MTN, a cellular phone company founded in 1994, has rapidly expanded into Uganda, Rwanda, Swaziland, Cameroon and Nigeria. Today, it counts more than 23 million subscribers in 11 countries.
 AS other African economies continue to benefit from the commodities boom, economic restructurings and investment from China, South Africa's multinational companies are well positioned to grow. ''South Africa's stock market has become a sort of a gateway to the rest of Africa,'' said Mr. Durham of EmergingPortfolio.com. 
 The Johannesburg Exchange, itself a publicly held company, is aiming to expand its reach. Its listings include eight companies from other African countries. ''We're trying to emerge as a hub for sub-Saharan Africa,'' said John Burke, director of issuer services at the exchange.
 In many ways, experts say, South Africa offers American investors a high level of comfort. ''They have excellent corporate governance and an excellent legal system, and very good managements compared to a lot of other emerging markets,'' said Mr. Smart of the Pioneer fund.
 But as with other emerging markets, especially those with economies heavily influenced by commodity prices, South Africa presents challenges. Its currency, the rand, is volatile. And the young democracy faces its first real succession contest when President Thabo Mbeki steps down in 2009. 
 Mr. Smart says: ''It still remains an emerging market with all of the attendant risks.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers in an Anglo Platinum mine, left, and a Sasol plant. The two companies are among the South African concerns held by mutual funds. (Photo by Sasol, via Bloomberg News)
 (Photo by Anglo Platinum, via Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (75%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (75%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INDEX FUNDS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%) Stocks and Bonds; International Trade and World Market; Mutual Funds; Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investment; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Morningstar Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: Robert D Jr Hershey; Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Brazil; Russia; South Africa

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



112 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: A Phantom Rebound In the Housing Market 

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
HOUSING bulls took heart on Dec. 27, when the Commerce Department reported that sales of new one-family homes rose 3.4 percent in November from October. While the figure was still well below the rate of November 2005, it represented a recovery from the sharp declines of the summer. 
 ''Sales of new and existing homes showed tentative signs of stabilizing, although at levels well below their mid-2005 peaks,'' the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee said at its December meeting. 
But those who think that the worst may be over for the housing market should take another look at the data, economists say. For the figures on new-home sales have a strange wrinkle that, in the current environment, may lead the government to overstate sales (and to understate inventory) by up to 20 percent. ''The market is weaker than the data say,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's/Economy.com. 
 New-home sales are tallied by the Census Bureau, based on a sampling of contracts signed by home buyers. Running at a pace of more than one million a year for the last four years, new-home sales have been a significant contributor to the housing boom -- and to the economy. (Existing-home sales, reported monthly by the National Association of Realtors, count actual closings.)
 But here's the rub: If a contract to buy a home, signed in November, is canceled in December, the Census Bureau does not subtract the failed transaction from the number of sales, or add the house back to its inventory total. In the last year, as the housing market has cooled, the volume of cancellations has risen to epidemic proportions.
 Speculators who signed contracts to buy homes in new communities in hot markets like Florida simply walked away from their deposits when they realized they couldn't flip the houses for a quick profit. And as prices and interest rates rose, noted Joseph Carson, chief economist at AllianceBernstein, ''people who committed to making new home purchases found they were having difficulty selling their own houses.''
 And so, in the quarter ended on Oct. 31, Toll Brothers, the high-end home builder, noted that cancellations totaled 37 percent of contracts signed in the quarter, up from 18 percent in the same quarter the previous year. Pulte Homes, the builder based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., reported a 36 percent cancellation rate in its third quarter, up from 17 percent in the 2005 third quarter.
 ''Cancellations have really affected big, publicly held builders the most, because they are relatively heavily concentrated in what had been the hottest markets,'' said Dave Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. Basing his findings on a survey of 30 large builders, Mr. Seiders concluded that in November 2006, cancellations constituted 38 percent of gross sales, compared with 26 percent in November 2005 and about 18 percent in the first half of 2005.
 Of course, the large publicly held builders comprise a minority of the home-building industry. Lawrence Yun, senior economist at the National Association of Realtors, noted that ''smaller home builders aren't affected as much by cancellations because they generally try to sign up clients before they start construction.''
 On its Web site, the Census Bureau acknowledges: ''As a result of our methodology, if conditions are worsening in the marketplace and cancellations are high, sales would be temporarily overestimated.'' By how much? Mr. Carson of AllianceBernstein estimates that the government is overestimating the pace of annual sales by 100,000 to 150,000. Mr. Zandi of Economy.com estimates that the differential is even greater. ''Given the rise in cancellation rates, it suggests that between 150,000 and 200,000 home sales are being counted that actually did not occur.''
 Just as the rising tide of cancellations leads the Census Bureau to overreport sales in the short term, it leads the government to underreport inventories. New homes on which contracts are not consummated are not added back into the inventory figure. The most recent report found that the seasonally adjusted estimate of new houses for sale at the end of November was 545,000, or 6.3 months of supply. Given the high rate of cancellations, it's likely that inventory is substantially higher.
 This much is clear: Given the failure of the reports to account for cancellations, demand isn't as strong as it appears, and supply is greater than it seems. 
 The large builders are clearly taking action to remedy the situation. In recent months, they have thrown in extras and cut prices as part of an effort to reduce inventory. These moves may have stemmed the tide of cancellations. ''In our survey of big builders, the absolute volume of sales cancellations did seem to top out in the third quarter,'' Mr. Seiders said.
 That's good news. But it may also mean that the housing market's recovery and stabilization may turn out to be like ski trips planned in the Northeast for the week between Christmas and New Year's. Given the climate, both have been postponed until 2007.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Return to Earth''After years of rising steadily, new-home sales slowed in 2006.Graph tracks number of new-home sales from 2000 through 2006 (est., as of Nov.)(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CENSUS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%) Housing; Sales

COMPANY: ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (52%); PULTEGROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%) Commerce Department; Census Bureau

TICKER: AB (NYSE) (52%); PHM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



113 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Three Philosophies, Three Big Gains

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
MUTUAL funds made money across the board in the last quarter of 2006, in small- and large-cap stocks, and in growth and value shares. Some top-performing fund managers recently talked about some of their stocks and offered their thoughts about the year ahead.

Small Stocks, Big Gains
 Small stocks led to big returns for the $78 million Pacific Advisors Small Cap fund, up 15.6 percent in the fourth quarter. The market capitalization for the 35 or so stocks in the portfolio averages $500 million.
The manager, George A. Henning, 59, says he looks for ''companies that are market leaders in their business, undervalued and have a good catalyst for future growth.'' Because he aims to hold stocks three to five years, he says, he buys what he calls ''less speculative stocks.'' 
 He attributed the fund's fourth-quarter performance to a good overall economy. ''As the economy continues to move along, our stocks continue to perform well,'' he said. The fund carries a 5.75 percent front-end load, or sales charge.
 One of its stars was ElkCorp, a company based in Dallas that Mr. Henning called the ''premier roofing company in the country.'' It became a takeover candidate, he said, when its share price fell because of slow sales during the light hurricane season last year. ElkCorp, which had agreed to be acquired for $38 a share by the Carlyle Group, is now weighing a bid from the Building Materials Corporation of America at $40 a share. ElkCorp rose 51.6 percent in the quarter.
 Another winner was Terra Industries, an agricultural and industrial chemical company in Sioux City, Iowa. Sales in its ammonium nitrate fertilizer business have strengthened, Mr. Henning said, as prices of imported European ammonium nitrate have risen. The surge in domestic ethanol production has also contributed, he said, because ammonium nitrate is used in growing corn. The shares rose 55.4 percent.
 The fund also made money in Toreador Resources, an oil and gas exploration and production company in Dallas. Its stock price dropped in the early fall on uncertainty about production levels in offshore wells, he said, but bounced back later in the year when it released positive reports about its preliminary findings. Its shares rose 43.9 percent.
 Looking ahead, he says he is positive about stocks of all sizes. While share prices may initially drop after a strong year-end gain, he said, ''good growth may come in the second half of 2007 because many companies have good balance sheets.''

Finding Megatrends
 Fast-growing companies drove the returns of the $160 million Eaton Vance Growth fund, up 14.3 percent in the quarter. The manager, Arieh Coll, 43, calls it a ''growth at a reasonable price'' portfolio. He seeks companies with annual earnings growth rates of 25 percent or more, or companies he sees as poised for rapid growth. The fund has a 5.75 percent front-end load.
 To pick the fund's 85 stocks, Mr. Coll aims to identify megatrends in the economy, then looks for industries and companies that might benefit from them. In the fourth quarter, these were two commodity trends: rising prices for uranium, used in nuclear power plants, and for gold.
 One of the fund's better performers was SXR Uranium One, a South African company whose shares trade on the Toronto and Johannesburg exchanges. SXR, a uranium and gold exploration and development company, owns properties in Canada, Australia and South Africa. He said the company should begin production in its Australian and South African mines next year.
 ''SXR is constructing two mines that are scheduled to open in 2007,'' he said. ''Production costs are $15 a pound, so its earnings should start to rise rapidly.'' Uranium prices doubled, to $72 a pound, last year. 
 The company's shares rose 92.1 percent in the quarter.
 The fund also profited from Gammon Lake Resources, a Canadian gold exploration and mining company that works primarily in Mexico. The shares, traded on the American Stock Exchange, rose 42.5 percent. 
 ''Ocampo, the company's biggest Mexican mine, increased its production in the fourth quarter, a signal that everything's O.K. at that mine,'' Mr. Coll said. 
 Another winner was Celgene, the biotechnology company in Summit, N.J. Celgene, which produces cancer drugs, recently began marketing Revlimid, used for patients with multiple myeloma. ''Sales are rising faster than expected,'' Mr. Coll said. ''Doctors are adopting the drug quickly because clinical data has proved its efficacy.'' Celgene shares rose 32.9 percent in the quarter.
 This year, Mr. Coll expects interest rates to decline, which should be good for the stock market, but he anticipates slower economic growth. 

A Boost From Commodities
 Large value stocks propelled the $600 million John Hancock Large Cap Equity fund, which returned 10.5 percent in the quarter. The lead manager, Timothy Keefe, 44, says he picks the fund's approximately 50 stocks ''using a very disciplined approach to identify mispriced companies.'' The market capitalization averages $13 billion to $14 billion. The fund has a 5 percent front-end load.
 Mr. Keefe says the fund profited in the fourth quarter from several commodities stocks. ''Some of the investments I made earlier in the year paid off in less than a year, which is unusual,'' he said.
 One was Silver Standard Resources, a Canadian silver exploration and development company. Its shares, traded on Nasdaq, rose 39.5 percent. The company is a ''pure asset play,'' Mr. Keefe said. ''It's transitioning from a company that holds silver assets to a silver producer,'' he said. ''This will result in an upgrade in how the shares are valued.''
 The fund also made money in Agnico-Eagle Mines, a gold exploration and development company in Toronto. He began buying shares in 2003, when it ''had a lot of difficulties with its biggest, best mine.'' Because of these difficulties, he added, ''its outstanding gold reserves were being underrecognized by the market.'' Its shares returned 32.5 percent.
 Another winner was Bunge, a worldwide agricultural products company now based in White Plains. Its share price recovered from a drop in the summer, when difficulties with its Brazilian soybean suppliers created uncertainty about its short-term earnings, Mr. Keefe said. He expects the company's profit to rise in 2007 in tandem with rising soybean prices. In the quarter, shares returned 25.4 percent.
 He expects a volatile stock market in 2007, which he sees as providing valuable opportunities. 
 ''There are a lot of crosscurrents in the market with the U.S. dollar, interest rates and disagreements about how fast the economy is growing,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: George Henning, at the Pacific Advisors Small Cap fund, looks for companies that are undervalued and are leaders in their sectors. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
At Eaton Vance Growth, Arieh Coll seeks companies with earnings growth of at least 25 percent, or companies with rapid growth potential. (Photo by Erik Jacobs for The New York Times)
 Timothy Keefe is lead manager of John Hancock Large Cap Equity. Commodities companies helped its returns in the last quarter. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)Chart: ''Ahead of the Pack''Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds in the last quarter fared against the overall market and against their peer groups.Graphs track the daily closing price for the following stock funds since October:Pacific Advisors Small CapEaton Vance GrowthJohn Hancock Large Cap EquityFOURTH-QUARTER RETURNSPacific Advisors Small Cap: +15.6%Small blend: +8.3%Eaton Vance Growth: +14.3%Mid-cap growth: +7.0%John Hancock Large Cap Equity: +10.5%Large blend: +6.8%(Sources by Morningstar Inc., Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); FERTILIZERS (88%); FERTILIZER MFG (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ALCOHOLS (71%); BONDS (71%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (68%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (66%); IMPORT PRICES (65%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (65%); CHEMICALS (63%); CHEMICALS MFG (63%); BIOFUELS (62%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (61%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (50%); OIL EXPLORATION (50%); ETHANOL (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: GAF MATERIALS CORP (93%); BUILDING MATERIALS CORP OF AMERICA (66%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (54%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2952 ASPHALT FELTS & COATINGS (93%); NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Carole Gould

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



114 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: A Coming of Age for the Global Real Estate Market 

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
FOR investors who have been missing out on the prolonged run-up in the shares of real estate investment trusts, or maybe jumped in only recently, the end may not be in sight: there are growing opportunities overseas. Some industry experts say that this is an opportune time to make a move into these nascent markets.
 ''We don't think the U.S. REIT market is played out; it will continue its upward growth,'' said Steven Carroll, co-chief investment officer at CB Richard Ellis Global Real Estate Securities. ''But we think the growth will escalate at a much more rapid pace overseas as more markets become securitized.''
Last week, Britain became the latest country to offer REITs. The corporate structure gives real estate companies favorable tax treatment in exchange for disbursing most of their income to shareholders. The addition of Britain brings to 17 the number of countries with public REIT markets, according to UBS Investment Bank; there are also about a dozen other countries with legislation in place or under consideration to create REITs, though with no public market yet. Germany is expected to offer REITs this spring. 
 In 1994, only three countries outside the United States allowed REITs, according to UBS.
 While the United States is still the world's dominant REIT market, with around $395 billion in market capitalization out of an estimated worldwide total of $608 billion, last year's spate of announced mergers and acquisitions is steadily reducing the number of publicly traded shares. 
 A recent report by Ernst & Young suggests that the rest of the globe is poised to surpass the United States by 2008 in terms of total capitalization. Much of the new growth, it says, is being driven by REIT markets in Australia, France, Japan, Canada, the Netherlands, Singapore and Hong Kong. 
 The report noted, meanwhile, that some of the lesser-known REIT markets like South Africa have had stellar performances. In fact, a global real estate index offered by the European Public Real Estate Association, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts and FTSE had a 42.35 percent return last year. The domestic REIT market, as measured by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, rose 34.35 percent in 2006, the seventh consecutive year that REITs outperformed the overall stock market.
 ''If you're an investor, it may well be a great opportunity to diversify,'' said Dale Anne Reiss, the global leader of Ernst & Young's real estate practice. ''You can really play the real estate market more effectively now.'' 
 She added that shares in some of the newer markets might be undervalued right now because of ''pricing inefficiencies'' in the underlying assets of some REITs. 
 Ralph L. Block, author of ''Investing in REITs'' (Bloomberg Press, 2006) and the publisher of The Essential REIT, a newsletter, agreed that ''there are some significant pockets of opportunity.'' But he warned that ''when someone finds a great opportunity, it usually means that opportunity gets recognized pretty quickly.''
 Big investors are already on the lookout. Nearly two-thirds of real estate professionals surveyed last year by the international law firm Bryan Cave said they planned to invest abroad within the next 12 months. And institutional investors -- which sank dizzying amounts of money into domestic REITs last year -- are also increasing their exposure to international real estate. 
 Among those increasing allocations into global REITs is the California Public Employees' Retirement System, known as Calpers, the largest public pension fund with more than $200 billion in assets. 
 Smaller investors are also finding more opportunities to branch out. In addition to the expanding number of foreign real estate stocks that can be bought through brokers, there are more mutual funds focused on international property. 
 At the same time, domestic REITs are acquiring more foreign property or forging partnerships. They include companies like ProLogis, the AMB Property Corporation and the Simon Property Group.
 Some of the funds rolled out last year include the Franklin Global REIT fund, Cohen & Steers Asia Pacific Realty Shares and the ING International Real Estate fund. The first foreign real estate index fund -- the Northern Global Real Estate Index fund from the Northern Trust Corporation -- also made its debut, along with the first global real estate exchange-traded fund: the streetTracks International Real Estate E.T.F., from State Street Global Advisors. 
 Many industry analysts are bullish about the office markets in the West End of London and in central Tokyo, which, they say, have a constrained supply of space.
 Jeremy Anagnos, the co-chairman with Mr. Carroll of CB Richard Ellis Global Real Estate Securities, says that the Japanese market in particular is primed to rally after ''coming out of its real estate recession that has lasted for 15 years.'' 
 He says that Germany, Europe's largest economy, offers potential opportunities, too. By many accounts, that country is set to roll into the public markets more than $100 billion in properties.
 But the foreign markets are also being supported by an aging population that is looking increasingly for higher-yielding fixed-income investments, Mr. Anagnos added, and REITs can help to satisfy that demand. Many individuals, particularly in Asia, were unable to invest in commercial real estate until REITs came along, he said.
 Changes in the way some foreign corporations operate are also helping to create more opportunities for domestic REITs, some experts say. ProLogis, in particular, has had a flurry of activity, including large acquisitions in Britain and the initial public offering of its ProLogis European Properties division. The company is one of the world's largest managers and developers of distribution centers.
 ''When we started moving into Europe, the original thought was to serve our U.S. customers that had an international requirement,'' said Jeffrey H. Schwartz, the chief executive of ProLogis. ''But it has become much more synergistic and powerful than that.''
 More business, he said, is now coming from companies in Europe and Asia looking to streamline their operations. 
 ''They used to want to see how big they could become without concern about return on equity,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''Now they are looking at how they can create shareholder value, and part of doing that is to become less asset-intensive.'' 
 More than 40 percent of the company's $25.3 billion in real estate assets under management are outside North America, he said, and in Japan, the average occupancy rate for storage facilities is 99.8 percent, versus 95 percent in the United States.
 Mr. Schwartz says he sees opportunities in Central European countries like Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. His next big focus, though, is China. Last year, ProLogis announced that it was developing an industrial park in Beijing to serve as the primary logistics and distribution center for the 2008 Olympics.
 Ms. Reiss, meanwhile, says she believes that it won't be long before multinational assets become commonplace in real estate companies. 
 ''It is quite conceivable,'' she said, ''that you will see assets in Mumbai and Milwaukee and Moscow and Malaysia -- all in the same REIT.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ProLogis is among several domestic REITs that are steadily expanding into foreign commercial real estate. The company has built a solid base in Japan, with properties that include distribution centers in Tokyo, above, and in Osaka, at left. (Photographs by ProLogis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (96%); REAL ESTATE (95%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SECURITIZATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (57%) Real Estate; Real Estate Investment Trusts; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (82%); CARROLL CO (71%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (71%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); OSAKA, JAPAN (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); FRANCE (73%); AUSTRALIA (71%); NETHERLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



115 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Big Investors Still Crave Commercial Real Estate

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
THE long-running rally in real estate funds gained strength in 2006, as the category led most others for the year. The surge caught off-guard even some seasoned money managers, who only a year ago were cautioning giddy investors not to expect a repeat of previous years' stellar returns. 
 But what may not have been evident at the time was the mounting appetite from institutions like pension and private equity funds for commercial real estate and, in particular, real estate investment trusts, which account for the bulk of most real estate funds' holdings.
The big investors, hungry for higher yields, pumped capital into dividend-paying REITs and in some cases acquired entire portfolios of office buildings and other commercial property in private deals. About two dozen mergers and acquisitions with a record value of nearly $103 billion were announced last year, according to the research company SNL Financial. Among them was the Blackstone Group's planned $36 billion leveraged buyout of Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation's largest owner and manager of office buildings. 
 REITs have also benefited from low interest rates and steady job growth and, because of rising construction costs, a limited supply of commercial buildings -- unlike the residential side, where the inventory of unsold homes has been mounting.
 ''The housing market may be in tough shape, but this part of the world is doing quite well,'' said William E. Seale, the chief investment officer at the ProFunds family of mutual funds.
 The subsequent run-up in REIT share prices -- they returned, on average, 34.4 percent last year, as measured by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts -- helped to bring even more riches to real estate fund investors, many of whom had already amassed capacious returns from previous years. 
 Real estate funds, along with E.T.F.'s, ended 2006 with more investment money flowing into them than ever before: around $7 billion, according to preliminary numbers from AMG Data Services. 
 Real estate funds returned 34 percent last year, on average, and 10.1 percent for the fourth quarter, said Morningstar, the fund tracker, after climbing nearly 12 percent in 2005 and 32 percent in 2004. For the five years through December, the annualized return was 23.2 percent. By contrast, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index returned 15.8 percent last year and 6.2 percent, annualized, over the five-year span. 
 ''This is a pretty powerful multiyear run; this really is incredible,'' said John Coumarianos, an analyst at Morningstar. Echoing the sentiment of other analysts, he added, ''I can see next year being another good year for real estate funds.''
 ONLY a year ago, though, many analysts and money managers predicted that the real estate rally would lose steam in 2006, as they raised concerns about the economy and the direction of interest rates. ''As the year has worn on in 2006, I think that the pace of growth continued to surprise people,'' said Theodore R. Bigman, who manages global real estate for Morgan Stanley Investment Management. 
 The top performers last year were funds that invest in foreign real estate, like E.I.I. International Property, which returned 59.8 percent, and Morgan Stanley Institutional International Real Estate A and B shares, which returned 56.1 percent and 55.7 percent, respectively. 
 Domestic funds weren't too far behind. The ProFunds Real Estate UltraSector, a leveraged index fund that tracks the Dow Jones United States real estate index, returned 48.5 percent for investor shares and 47.2 percent for the higher-fee service class. Among other funds that ranked high on the performance list, the Morgan Stanley Real Estate fund returned 38.3 percent; ING Van Kampen Real Estate I shares, 38 percent; and Neuberger Berman Real Estate, 37.8 percent. 
 All of those funds had significant holdings in Equity Office Properties Trust as well as other office REITs like the Simon Property Group. ''They all seemed to go up in anticipation that somebody else will be next'' to be acquired, Mr. Coumarianos said of the office REIT subset.
 Many top-performing funds also had sizable holdings in apartment REITs like AvalonBay Communities, Equity Residential Properties Trust and Archstone-Smith Trust. Those companies have benefited from the reduced affordability of single-family homes, which has caused some people to defer home buying. 
 Twenty-six percent of Neuberger Berman Real Estate's holdings were in apartment REITs at the start of last year, although Steven R. Brown, the fund's manager, said he had since reduced that allocation to around 18 percent. ''We believe the easy money in apartments is over,'' he said. 
 Some market analysts seemed to agree. ''During the real estate boom, too many apartment buildings were turned into condos, which left a dearth of apartments,'' said Jeff Tjornehoj, a senior research analyst at Lipper, which tracks mutual funds. ''But now there's talk of a lot of condos becoming rentals again.''
 While the weakening housing market has had little adverse affect on most real estate funds, because their focus is on the commercial side, there was one noted exception last year. The Alpine U.S. Realty Equity fund, once a marquee star of the sector, ended the year 0.4 percent lower. The fund has a significant portion of its assets invested in home builders like the Lennar Corporation, Toll Brothers and Hovnanian Enterprises, whose fortunes have reversed as demand for new homes has fallen. 
 The fund's one major bright spot, though, was hotels. And industry experts are predicting that many hotel companies, REITs and non-REITs alike, will continue to do well this year, as demand for hotel rooms again outpaces supply. 
 Mr. Bigman, who manages the Morgan Stanley as well as the ING Van Kampen real estate funds, has among his funds' holdings companies like Host Hotels & Resorts, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide and the Hilton Hotels Corporation, which he suggests may be undervalued and poised for growth. 
 ''We're very much bottom-up stock pickers and looking for stocks that trade at attractive valuations,'' Mr. Bigman said. He bases his investment decisions on the quality of the underlying properties, he said, rather than on financial metrics like low price-to-earnings ratios. 
 ''We're looking for a stock where you can buy real estate cheaper on Wall Street than on Main Street,'' he said.
 And so, it seems, are many other large institutional investors, which helps to explain the growing attraction to REITs and the jump in merger-and-acquisition activity. Many analysts predict that the trend toward REIT privatization will extend through this year.
 ''The private market right now is valuing REIT assets at a much higher rate'' than the public securities market, explained Bruce S. Schonbraun, the managing partner of the Schonbraun Group, a real estate consulting company. 
 The big institutions, Mr. Schonbraun and others said, have realized the efficiencies inherent in buying entire REIT portfolios rather than going through the onerous process of bidding for individual trophy assets, or developing property themselves at greater expense.
 But, more important, commercial real estate in general has evolved into an accepted asset class among investors as well as an excellent portfolio diversifier, said John J. Kriz, the managing director of real estate finance for Moody's Investors Service. ''Investors, large and small, are feeling more comfortable about real estate; it is no longer a side show,'' he said.
 FOR one thing, ''the technology for analyzing and understanding real estate is far better than it was a while ago,'' Mr. Kriz said, but also the proliferation of global REITs and funds ''provides additional legitimacy.'' 
 What's next for fund investors? 
 Mr. Coumarianos suggests that those who have long invested in real estate may want to cash out some holdings this year, if only to keep portfolio asset allocations in balance. 
 Mr. Bigman, meanwhile, suggests that investors also start looking at the real estate markets overseas. ''The evolution of investing is away from the U.S. only and toward global,'' he said. 
 What might hurt commercial real estate, in the United States at least, is a weaker economy or a major spike in interest rates, though most experts aren't expecting either scenario to happen this year.
 ''I'm probably like a lot of people and can't quite figure out when this party is going to stop,'' said Mr. Tjornehoj of Lipper. ''But I think as long as there's a lot of liquidity out there -- private equity or hedge funds shopping around for new asset classes or overlooked asset classes -- real estate will continue to show up on the radar screen.''
 Mr. Kriz agreed. ''Is the party over? Maybe not,'' he said. ''But I would caution that trees do not grow to the sky.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A building at 1301 Avenue of the Americas in Manhattan is owned by Equity Office Properties. Blackstone plans a leveraged buyout of Equity. (Photo by Mark Lennihan/Associated Press)
 The Archstone-Smith Trust, a holding in many top-performing real estate funds, owns this 120-unit apartment complex in Pasadena, Calif. (Photo by Archstone-Smith)(pg. 29)Chart: ''On a Roll''Real estate investment trusts have outperformed the stock market for the last five years.Graph tracks total returns (FTSE NAREIT All REIT index and S. & P. 500 index) since 2002.(Source by National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); MERGERS (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); DIVIDENDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Office Buildings and Other Commercial Properties; Real Estate Investment Trusts

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); AMG DATA SERVICES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (59%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



116 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Can Foreign Markets Beat the U.S. Again?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE best place to invest in 2006 was just about anyplace but the United States. Of the 24 stock markets in developed countries tracked by Morgan Stanley Capital International, only two, Japan's and New Zealand's, failed to match the 15.8 percent total return of Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 Most emerging markets did better, too. Many had a stunning year, with China, Argentina, Indonesia and Russia up more than 50 percent.
It was the second consecutive year of outperformance for overseas markets, helped by more reasonable valuations, a shrinking dollar -- which increases the value to Americans of assets denominated in other currencies -- and economic growth that strengthened in many countries as it abated in the United States. 
 Can foreign markets achieve the threepeat? Fund managers who specialize in international equities warn that it will be difficult, because foreign stocks are not as cheap, compared with American stocks, as they were before the run of outperformance began. They are trying to keep the winning streak going by exercising far more caution and selectivity in their investments than was necessary for the last few years.
 ''Without a doubt it's harder to find good values than one, two or three years ago,'' said Sarah Ketterer, chief executive and co-chief investment officer of Causeway Capital Management in Los Angeles. ''We may very well see lower returns'' this year, she warned.
 Or we may not -- which, she said, is why investors would be unwise to abandon foreign stocks. Anyone who surveyed the landscape a year ago and reasoned that the strong outperformance overseas had set up the domestic market for a superior run would have been wrong.
 ''No one can call a top or bottom in any market,'' Ms. Ketterer said. ''There isn't any sign of danger on the horizon, at least as far as interest rates are concerned. That takes pressure off companies and improves operating results. There could be another one, two or six good years left.''
 Thomas Mengel, manager of the Ivy International Value fund, is hoping for at least one. He sees ''a year of decent returns'' as long as the environment for economic growth and interest rates stays benign.
 Such a backdrop cannot be assured, of course, and with valuations no longer as reasonable as they were, he is seeking the safety of companies that have strong balance sheets and are restructuring operations to be more efficient.
 Mr. Mengel is concentrating his search in Europe, which has the benefit of being at the right point of the growth cycle. The economy is expanding faster there than it is in the United States, profit margins are improving, and business confidence is at multiyear highs.
 David Herro, chief investment officer for international equities at Harris Associates, based in Chicago, is also focusing on stable, defensive issues. He is a fan of ''busted blue chips,'' his sobriquet for giant multinationals that have been largely shunned by investors this decade.
 ''This is a slice of the market which I still think is very attractive,'' said Mr. Herro, who manages international funds sold under the Oakmark brand. ''Look at valuations and what you're getting for what you're paying. These are good quality businesses at the right prices.''
 Finding companies in emerging markets, especially in Asia, that fit this description is no small feat after the whopping gains that many achieved last year. Some fund managers are using a buy-'em-where-they-ain't strategy, directing investments to stocks, sectors and countries that have remained comparatively untouched by the rally.
 Mark Headley, president of Matthews International Capital Management in San Francisco, a fund marketer specializing in Asia, has been using that approach. ''China and India have been deluged with hype,'' he said. ''It's time to be very cautious and trim back some of the winners. Not everything is in a bubble, but you're definitely paying a premium price'' in those two markets.
 Mr. Headley singled out Chinese banks, several of which have been privatized in the last couple of years through high-profile share listings. ''I'd be very cautious,'' he said. He pointed to histories of bad loans at major Chinese banks, as well as to price-to-earnings multiples that are double those of institutions in the United States and Europe.
 He noted that investors who align their portfolios with benchmark indexes might have no choice but to own some of these stocks, and he expressed sympathy. ''The more they go up, the more they have to own them'' to maintain index weightings, he said. ''We're going to see some very painful pullbacks.''
 Mr. Headley expects to stay pain-free by doing business in countries that have been largely ignored, like Malaysia and Thailand.
 The Malaysian market ''kind of missed the last five years,'' he said, alluding to the decision by many investors, including himself, to avoid the market after the government introduced capital controls in response to the 1990s financial crisis.
 Thailand has just imposed restrictions to cope with speculative flows into its currency, the baht. Investors took the news badly, sending stocks down about 15 percent in a day. Mr. Headley, however, is not deterred. ''Thailand is the cheapest market in Asia, and we're pretty fully invested there,'' he said. One of his favorite holdings is Advanced Info Service, a mobile phone service provider with a P/E ratio in the low teens and a dividend yield above 7.5 percent.
 Among his other diverse investments are S1, a South Korean security company; the Joint Corporation, a Japanese condominium developer, and Bank Rakyat Indonesia, a microfinance bank providing very small loans through thousands of village offices. Its stock is ''expensive right now,'' he conceded, ''but the story is really unique and different.''
 Mr. Herro prefers megafinance, as confirmed by his positions in Credit Suisse and UBS, which he said he likes for their private banking and asset management businesses. His other large holdings include the drug makers Glaxo SmithKline and Novartis and the British food and drink companies Diageo and Cadbury Schweppes.
 He also has a stake in DaimlerChrysler, crediting it with its reorganization efforts. The stock is undervalued, he said, as investors fixate on Chrysler's woes and ignore its strength in commercial vehicles.
 In Asia, Mr. Herro has stakes in SK Telecom in South Korea and two Japanese companies, Daiwa Securities and the semiconductor maker Rohm.
 ''If you look at these companies, one thing they've got in common is low valuations and decent profitability,'' he said, noting DaimlerChrysler as the exception.
 Ms. Ketterer did not mention the carmaker, but she likes German stocks because, ''for the first time in history they are embarking on major restructuring,'' she said.
 She declared herself ''very enthusiastic'' about Siemens, the German conglomerate. It ''has been a perpetual laggard, but that's what's so interesting,'' she said. ''There is a commitment to improving the business.''
 Ms. Ketterer also likes France Telecom, which, she said, has undergone a transformation. Like many European phone companies, she added, it paid too much for licenses to provide third-generation services and went deeply into debt.
 The company ''behaves more like a utility now,'' she said. ''Cash-flow generation is fantastic,'' she added, ''more than enough for shareholders and to pay for expansion.''
 MR. MENGEL, the Ivy fund manager, likes companies that have always behaved like utilities, including E.ON and RWE in Germany and Suez of France. Other favorites include Banca Intesa in Italy and ORIX financial services in Japan.
 After the strong performance of international stocks, he says he believes in safety first, but not safety only. Many companies in which he has invested are based in the developed world, but they generate a significant portion of their sales in emerging-market economies.
 Some examples are the Swiss cement maker Holcim, which does extensive business in Latin America and Eastern Europe, the Swiss watchmaker Swatch and the French luxury-goods conglomerate LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton.
 ''These companies are showing decent growth in mature countries,'' Mr. Mengel said. ''But because they have more and more sales in emerging markets, they're becoming pretty interesting. We're capturing part of the growth in emerging markets in a conservative way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Many investors avoided the Malaysian stock market because of controls, but it may be more popular in 2007. (Photo by Andy Wong/Associated Press)
 An RWE power plant behind the town of Gusdorf, Germany. A mutual fund manager likes RWE because of its cash-flow generation. (Photo by Arnd Wiegmann/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (65%); INTEREST RATES (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investment; Standard & Poor's Stock Index

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley Capital Group

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); INDONESIA (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



117 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Will This Bull Ever Retire? 

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
IF 2006 proved anything, it's that aging bull markets don't have to die simply because they're old, or that they must quietly fade away.
 Given enough of a dose of economic growth, corporate profits and cheap capital, a bull market that's more than four years old -- as this one is -- can still rage on like a young buck.
That was certainly what mutual fund investors discovered last year. Emboldened by an economy that proved resilient in the face of Federal Reserve interest-rate increases, high oil prices and a cooling housing market, the average general domestic stock fund gained 12.8 percent last year. 
 Among all stock funds that invest in domestic equities, including single-sector portfolios, the average gain was even better: 13.4 percent, according to Morningstar, the mutual fund tracker. 
 To be sure, this was shy of the return of 15.8 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-index of blue-chip stocks, which had its best year since 2003. But it was a surprising improvement from 2005, when domestic stock funds gained 7.7 percent, on average, and looked to be tiring.
 Many people on Wall Street say the market's momentum could last well into this year. And in at least one respect, history is on the market's side. Since 1945, the S.& P. 500 has never declined in the third year of a presidential term, according to Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P. And the average gain for equities during these years has been 18 percent. 
 As has been the case throughout this decade, the equity markets caught a much-needed second wind in the fourth quarter, which drove the Dow Jones industrial average and the Russell 2000 index of small stocks to record levels late last year.
 According to Morningstar, the average domestic stock fund surged 6.9 percent in the quarter, marking the sixth consecutive year-end rally for stocks.
 What propelled stock prices higher this time? For starters, data released late in the year ''put to rest all the extraneous worries about the economy,'' said James Swanson, chief investment strategist at MFS Investment Management in Boston. 
 In the spring, concerns that the Federal Reserve may have done too good of a job of slowing the economy threatened to tame the bull market. In fact, a growing number of economists began to worry about the possibility of a recession on the horizon. 
 As a result, stocks ran into a proverbial wall of worry in the spring and early summer. From May 5 to June 13, the S.& P. 500 slumped 7.7 percent, its worst slide since the bear market earlier this decade. For the entire second quarter, the average domestic stock fund lost 2.8 percent.
 But as it turned out, the economy -- and consumers, for that matter -- proved stronger than expected. Moreover, oil prices stabilized and the Fed all but said that it was done raising short-term interest rates for now. 
 ''Once investors were no longer worried about recession, they were willing to jump back on the risk train,'' said Thomas W. McDowell, chief executive and chief investment officer at Rice Hall James, an investment management firm in San Diego. 
 He's not kidding. In the fourth quarter, investors, whom many analysts thought would embrace relatively conservative assets like blue-chip domestic stocks, went back to their speculative ways.
 AND they were rewarded handsomely for their risk taking.
 Within the fixed-income world, for example, the average emerging-market bond fund rose 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter and 11.1 percent for the year. High-yield bond funds did nearly as well, posting quarterly gains of 4.2 percent and annual returns of 10.3 percent. By comparison, the average bond fund that invests in long-term debt issued by the United States government rose just 0.1 percent in the quarter and 0.6 percent for the year.
 The picture was much the same in the equity markets. 
 The average diversified emerging-market stock fund, for example, soared 17.4 percent in the quarter and finished the year up 32.6 percent, according to Morningstar. The best-performing fund category was Latin American stock portfolios, which posted gains of 21.5 percent for the quarter and 45.2 percent for 2006.
 On the domestic front, many of the same sectors that have been leading the markets in recent years dominated again in 2006. Precious-metals funds, for instance, rallied 32.2 percent for the year and are now up 33.7 percent, annualized, over the last five years. Real estate and utilities portfolios also soared, posting average gains last year of 34 percent and 25.5 percent, respectively. And thanks in part to the recent wave of mergers and acquisitions, financial sector funds rose 16.4 percent, on average.
 Despite predictions that this would be the year when large-cap domestic stock funds returned to dominance, small-cap stock funds again led the domestic markets among general domestic stock funds.
 According to Morningstar, the average small-cap growth fund advanced 11.1 percent last year, versus 7.3 percent for the average large-cap growth portfolio. And while large-cap value funds outperformed their small-cap counterparts for the full year, they trailed small-cap value funds in the fourth quarter.
 ''This appetite for risk has me a little worried,'' Mr. Swanson said. He asserted that investors aren't simply expecting a so-called soft landing in the economy -- in other words, the avoidance of a recession. ''The market is bracing for the plane to circle and take off again -- and I think that's too optimistic,'' he said.
 Another reason that speculative investments are doing so well is that despite 17 interest-rate increases since June 2004, ample liquidity continues to slosh around the global financial markets. 
 ''Right now, there's still too much money chasing too few financial assets,'' said Stuart A. Schweitzer, global markets strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset and Wealth Management. 
 James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, agreed. ''This is the only time in postwar history where a recovery has taken place without any rise in long-term borrowing costs,'' he said. 
 He noted that yields on 10-year Treasury notes were virtually unchanged from June 2004, when the Fed began its tightening cycle in an effort to slow the economy and tame inflation.
 Until this changes, Mr. Paulsen argues that the markets will continue to be led by small-cap stocks that are economically cyclical.
 He is in the minority. A vast majority of money managers and market strategists are banking that investors will regain interest in large-cap stocks as attention turns to the slowing economy and corporate profit growth later in the year. 
 Indeed, a recent survey of money managers by the Russell Investment Group showed that investors were more bullish on large-cap growth and large-cap value stocks than they were on small-cap growth and small-cap value shares.
 And in general, investors are anticipating a fifth consecutive positive year for equities. Yet bull markets rarely survive to this age. In fact, of the last 14 bull markets in domestic equities, only four lasted five years or longer. And the average bull lived only 3.7 years, according to InvesTech Research.
 According to the Russell survey, 8 in 10 investors believe that domestic stocks will have another positive year in 2007. And a third are predicting gains of at least 10 percent, in part because of a slowing-but-still growing economy and a possible rate cut by the Federal Reserve.
 But all of this bullishness has some market watchers nervous. ''There's certainly less pessimism today about 2007 that there was a year ago,'' Mr. Paulsen said. While that may be good news for investor confidence, he added, ''it means the risks in the market are higher.''
 FOR instance, what if corporate profit growth -- estimated at 15.5 percent last year, versus 13.7 percent in 2005 -- slows more than expected? Mr. Schweitzer points out that six months ago, Wall Street analysts were expecting corporate profits among S.& P. 500 companies to jump 10.5 to 10.75 percent in 2007. ''Now, the latest forecasts are for growth of a little more than 9 percent,'' he said. While this is none too shabby, ''the ebbing of corporate profit growth expectations may continue in 2007 and unsettle investors,'' he said.
 At the very least, Mr. Schweitzer said, the worrisome degree of optimism among investors means that ''the chances of a bumpy ride on Wall Street are quite high.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gasoline is pumped underground in San Rafael, Calif. Despite high oil prices, stock funds gained last year. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)(pg. 28)Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)(pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BONDS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); INTEREST RATES (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



118 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Sock Away That Retirement Cash, and the Sooner the Better

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FOR some investors, the new year offers a reminder to rebalance their portfolios. Others use this time to make tactical, short-term bets on certain stocks or commodities. But many investors often overlook the simplest step of all: increasing the amount of money they set aside in their 401(k) retirement plans, individual retirement accounts and other savings vehicles.
 Indeed, a study of the behavior of 401(k) investors by Hewitt Associates, a consulting firm in Lincolnshire, Ill., found that only 16.6 percent of 401(k) participants increased their contribution rates in 2005, the most recent year for which data are available. Nearly 10 percent, meanwhile, wound up reducing their savings rate that year. 
Yet without adequate savings, no investment strategy will take you to where you need to go. ''Savings is literally the gas in the retirement car,'' said Richard Rosso, a Houston-based financial planner at Charles Schwab, the brokerage firm.
 Socking away more money may not seem as sexy as finding the next Google or timing the commodities market. Yet for many people, this step will have a more meaningful impact on the long-term success of their investment plans than how well they invest their money.
 Say you save $1,000 a year for the next 25 years and earn 7 percent annually on your money. At the end of this time, you would end up with slightly more than $67,000 in your account.
 Now let's assume that you tweak your investment strategy and increase your returns by two percentage points a year. In this case, you would raise your portfolio value to $92,000 -- but you would be assuming more risk in your portfolio to achieve those higher returns.
 But if you simply socked away an extra $1,000 a year, you would end up with $135,000 -- and that assumes the original 7 percent rate of return.
 ''Fundamentally, savings is the most important topic in retirement,'' said Jamie Cornell, senior vice president for plan sponsor marketing at Fidelity Investments. ''We can talk long and hard about all the different investment vehicles out there, but Americans today are simply not saving sufficiently.''
 It isn't that people are avoiding all saving: an annual survey of the Employee Benefit Research Institute recently found that 70 percent of workers have saved for retirement.
 But it's how much -- or rather, how little -- they are setting aside that is worrisome. The fact is that nearly two-thirds of all workers have saved less than $50,000 toward their retirement, according to the survey. And 77 percent of all workers have less than $100,000 accumulated.
 The good news is that the Pension Protection Act, signed into law last August, made permanent the higher annual contribution limits for IRAs introduced in 2001. This year, for instance, investors can put as much as $4,000 into their IRAs, while people 50 or older can add throw in $1,000 on top of that, as their so-called catch-up contribution. 
 Moreover, contribution ceilings for 401(k)s have increased. In 2007, workers can contribute up to the federal cap of $15,500. That is $500 more than in 2006. And employees 50 or older can stuff an additional $5,000 into their accounts this year. Not all workers are allowed to save up to the federal limit, however. The ability of the highly compensated to contribute up to the federal maximum is often influenced by how much rank-and-file workers are saving.
 Mr. Rosso suggests that all workers who aren't maxing out their 401(k)s consider raising their salary deferral rate by two percentage points.
 In other words, if you now contribute 6 percent of your pretax salary to your 401(k), see if you can increase that to 8 percent. 
 Workers who have recently enjoyed a pay raise or bonus ''probably will never feel the loss in their take-home pay,'' Mr. Rosso said.
 But can two percentage points make much of a difference? T. Rowe Price, the investment management firm, crunched the numbers. Say you earn $32,500 a year in salary. And assume that you currently contribute 6 percent of your pay to your 401(k). That means you are saving $37.50 a week. If you invest that money for 30 years and earn 8 percent annually, you would end up with $243,820.
 But say you were to increase your deferral rate to 8 percent. That extra two points of savings, compounded over 30 years, would increase the size of your nest egg by a third -- to $325,093. And if you were to save an extra four points, raising your deferral rate to 10 percent, you would have two-thirds more money -- or $406,366.
 THE younger you are, Mr. Cornell noted, the more impact that incremental increases in your savings rate will have on your overall plan through compounding.
 For instance, if you are 25 and have 40 years until retirement, every additional $1 you save will be worth $8.14 at retirement, adjusted for inflation. That is according to an analysis by Fidelity that assumes you invest that money in a mix of 70 percent stocks, 25 percent bonds and 5 percent cash. 
 But if you wait until you turn 40, each incremental dollar of savings will be worth $3.87 at retirement. 
 Does this mean that at a certain point, it isn't worth saving? Not at all. Even at 50, a dollar saved will be worth $2.32 by the time you turn 65. 
 It just means that it's important to start saving now -- or as soon as humanly possible.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Early Investor Gets the Big Return''The earlier you begin investing in life, the greater the potential return. Here is an example of $10,000 invested in a diversified portfolio at different ages.*Graph tracks the value of a $10,000 investment at age 65, in thousands* and age at which money was invested.*Figures adjusted for inflation and based on a portfolio of 70% stocks, 25% bonds and 5% cash. using annual performance data for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the Ibbotson Intermediate-Term Government Bond Index and the Ibbotson U.S. 30-day Treasury bill data series.(Source by Fidelity Investments)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); LEGISLATION (66%) Personal Finances; Retirement

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (90%); AON HEWITT (83%); FMR CORP (56%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewitt Associates

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (83%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



119 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Nonfiction Chronicle; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1364 words

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PRICE. 
Matthew Price is a critic whose reviews have appeared in Bookforum, The Boston Globe and other publications.

 BODY:
PIGEONS: The Fascinating Saga of the World's Most Revered and Reviled Bird. By Andrew D. Blechman. (Grove, $24.) Consider the pigeon. Rather not? Well, reconsider, and do yourself a favor by reading Blechman's charming book. For once, a subtitle that doesn't exaggerate! 
 For many of us, pigeons are just nuisances who foul the ground with their copious droppings. Yet the pigeon also inspires cults of rabid admirers who race them, breed them and show them off in pageants as bizarre as any snooty dog show. Blechman wittily traces the history of this gentle, intelligent, misunderstood bird -- pigeon hatred, he shows, is a recent phenomenon -- and journeys into its obsessive subcultures. He hangs out on Brooklyn rooftops with a die-hard who breeds ''homers'' (as racing pigeons are known) as if they were thoroughbreds, prepping them for a West Virginia-to-New York race called the Main Event. Then there is the world of dandified show breeds: Jacobins, among the oldest and most stylish, sport ''a regal-looking mane of soft feathers, like Greta Garbo snuggled in a fur coat.'' Blechman gives equal time to the haters, from avian exterminators to a pigeon-shooting club in Pennsylvania. Along the way, he offers plenty of revelations about pigeon habits. In fact, they're rather tidy birds -- it's we pesky humans who make the urban poop problem worse by feeding them white bread, as processed flour makes for ''rock-hard droppings.'' Even those in the business of killing pigeons don't think they're that bad: ''They're pacifists,'' an exterminator concedes. ''They don't mean any harm. They just want to eat and hang out.'' 

MONOPOLY: The World's Most Famous Game -- and How It Got That Way. By Philip E. Orbanes. (Da Capo, $26.) Here's a real estate tip: Next time you're playing Monopoly, don't make like Donald Trump and snap up the coveted Boardwalk and Park Place. Much better to build a portfolio of cheaper properties, which will give a better return on your investment. So observes Orbanes in his spirited pop history of the classic board game. An unabashed fan, Orbanes is also a historical consultant to Hasbro Games, which owns Parker Brothers, the manufacturer of Monopoly. This trivia-heavy, sometimes gushing book is at its best when chronicling Monopoly's early 20th-century precursors. Interestingly enough, the game that celebrates entrepreneurial cunning had its roots in the populist, anti-monopoly theories of the economist Henry George, which inspired a high-minded actress named Elizabeth Magie Phillips to create the Landlord's Game in 1903. The game was designed to educate players about an unequal property system, and handmade versions passed from friend to friend. By the early '30s, one version, imprinted with Atlantic City street names and shorn of its rule that properties be sold at a fixed price, made its way to an unemployed Philadelphia plumbing repairman, who added the now familiar brightly colored bands and graphic icons. Parker Brothers bought the game in 1935, and it became a global Depression-era smash, with versions tailored to various markets. Italians of the Mussolini era, for example, enjoyed ''Monopoli,'' which featured a ''Via del Fascio,'' while the British could bid on Bond Street. Today, custom editions abound, from Harvardopoly to Elvisopoly to Dog-oply.

SEX AND THE EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY MAN: Massachusetts and the History of Sexuality in America. By Thomas A. Foster. (Beacon, $28.95.) In this plodding if occasionally saucy book, Foster -- a historian at DePaul University -- argues that our view of colonial America is much too chaste. You might not know it from reading those blockbusting biographies of the founding fathers, but sex was everywhere, ''regulated, controlled, discussed and crafted as part of an effort to create social stability and define racial, class and gender social boundaries.'' Foster's lethally earnest style is anything but sexy, and his convoluted argument often takes maddening turns, but his research shows real archival flair. Zeroing in on the Bay State, Foster uses sermons, newspapers and court testimony to uncover a frank, often viciously witty discourse on male sexual behavior. Not surprisingly, marriage was ''the only legitimate site for male sexual expression,'' Foster writes. Giving pleasure was a male duty: in addition to making an honorable living, a husband had to keep things interesting in the bedroom. Sexual failure was grounds for divorce. (One wife complained that her husband was ''naturally and incurably so defective in his body, that he is utterly incapable of Procreation.'') Bachelorhood was deeply suspect, and one tract warned that even single men who were celibate would ''fry in the Grease of their own Sensuality.''

PORTRAIT: The Life of Thomas Eakins. By William S. McFeely. (Norton, $26.95.) Unfortunately for McFeely, his book arrives in the wake of two major books on Eakins published in the last few years. Specialists and competitors may sniff, but McFeely -- author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning biography of Ulysses S. Grant -- has written a brief, solid introduction, more an essay than a full-blown biography, to one of the 19th century's great realists. If he skimps on Eakins's later years, McFeely sensitively chronicles the maturation of this enigmatic Philadelphian, who died in 1916. After the Civil War, Eakins made the obligatory trip to Paris. But it was Spain, McFeely contends, that ''held the key to Eakins' greatest paintings,'' with Velazquez proving a decisive influence. On the vexed matter of the artist's sexuality, McFeely generally accepts that Eakins, who married in 1884, had homosexual leanings. And McFeely's account of Eakins's work is provocative. Taking his cues from photography and from careful study of anatomy -- ''The Gross Clinic'' (1875) is, among other things, an homage to medical science -- Eakins excelled at painting naked flesh, perhaps nowhere more so than with the male divers of ''Swimming'' (1884-85). While acknowledging its homoeroticism, McFeely sees something more profound in this summer scene: it is an ''appeal for freedom, for something truly natural.''

THERE GOES THE NEIGHBORHOOD: Racial, Ethnic, and Class Tensions in Four Chicago Neighborhoods and Their Meaning for America. By William Julius Wilson and Richard P. Taub. (Knopf, $23.95.) Like many of America's big cities, Chicago has been transformed by white flight and immigration. In the decade after 1990, the Latino population surged by some 38 percent, while whites continued to trickle out into the suburbs. In this compact study, the esteemed sociologist Wilson and his colleague Taub gauge these changes in an effort to highlight ''a major national challenge: the development of intergroup harmony in an era of rapid ethnic change.'' It's a noble goal, but their findings aren't terribly encouraging (and their academic prose -- these are essentially research papers -- can be a bit mind-numbing). Assisted by a platoon of ethnographers, Wilson and Taub surveyed four mostly working- and lower-middle-class neighborhoods -- ones they felt ''best represented ordinary Americans'' -- on the South and West sides of Chicago, where fierce competition prevails for safe schools, parks and playgrounds. In Beltway (all neighborhoods are given pseudonyms), working-class whites -- many of them municipal employees who by law must live within the city limits -- bemoan the city's racial mix. (''If we leave there'll be nothing in this goddamn city,'' an electrician complains.) In Dover, a former Polish neighborhood that is now a haven for Mexican-American strivers, the authors find an entirely negative instance of ''intergroup harmony,'' as white and Latino parents lobby to keep their children from being bused to schools in poor black neighborhoods. Indeed, from the recently arrived Mexican immigrants of Archer Park to the middle-class blacks of Groveland, anxiety about poor African-Americans is nearly universal. Still, the authors place their hopes in ''local coalition building that would bring together diverse communities to identify common goals and concerns'' -- though their own data suggests this is but a remote possibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIRDS (90%); BOARD GAMES (88%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (84%); DOGS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (66%); TOYS & GAMES (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); MONOPOLIZATION (62%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (53%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



120 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Christian Empire

BYLINE: By RICK PERLSTEIN. 
Rick Perlstein is the author of ''Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus.''

 BODY:
AMERICAN FASCISTS
 The Christian Right and the War on America.
 By Chris Hedges.
 254 pp. Free Press. $25.
Of course there are Christian fascists in America. How else to describe, say, the administrator of a faith-based drug treatment program who bound and beat a resident, then subjected her to 32 straight hours of recorded sermons? Or American Veterans in Domestic Defense, the uniform-clad cadres who took former Chief Justice Roy Moore's Ten Commandments monument on tour after a judge banned it from the Montgomery, Ala., judicial building? (American Jews, the group's founder explained, are ''a driving force behind trying to take everything to do with Christianity out of our system.'') Whatever one's definition of this most vexed of ''f'' words, in a time when the chief of staff for United States Senator Tom Coburn tells a reporter soon after the Terri Schiavo crisis, ''I don't want to impeach judges; I want to impale them,'' to flinch from examining the authoritarian impulses coursing through American life becomes a moral abdication. 
 Chris Hedges' ''American Fascists,'' unfortunately, is not a worthy attempt. The examples above don't even come from his book. The first two are from Michelle Goldberg's penetrating and wise ''Kingdom Coming: The Rise of Christian Nationalism.'' The third is from Max Blumenthal, a brave and resourceful reporter adept at turning over rocks that public-relations-savvy Christian conservative leaders would prefer remain undisturbed. Hedges was a longtime foreign correspondent, for The New York Times and other publications. But he writes on this subject as a neophyte, and pads out his dispatches with ungrounded theorizing, unconvincing speculation and examples that fall far short of bearing out his thesis.
 In ''War Is a Force That Gives Us Meaning'' (2002), Hedges' classic meditation on the perverse pleasure human beings derive from visiting violence upon one another, he wrote, ''It took Milosevic four years of hate propaganda and lies, pumped forth daily over the airways from Belgrade, before he got one Serb to cross the border into Bosnia and begin the murderous rampage that triggered the war.'' Now he fears that Milosevics may be among us. They are ministers like Russell Johnson, who exhorts a few hundred people at an Ohio voter-registration rally in front of a banner that commingles the Christian cross and the American flag: ''We're on the beaches of Normandy, and we can see the pillbox entrenchments of academic and media liberalism. We'll take back our country for Christ.'' 
 Hedges' conclusion: ''The crowds are wrapped in the seductive language of violence, which soon enough leads to acts of real violence.'' 
 To reach it, he relies on a body of thought devised long ago to explain the rise of totalitarianism in the middle of the previous century -- ideas about how alienation, economic dislocation, the deformation of language and exploitative authoritarian leaders become both the necessary and the sufficient cause for imminent purgative violence. The problem is that he can't point to any actual existing violence among the people he's reporting on. This is an argument in the subjunctive mood. 
 Hedges is a serious Christian himself, a seminary graduate, and is best when he excoriates liberals who prefer to explain away preachers who say things like ''Jesus was the most intolerant person in the world'' (Hedges heard that at a conference aimed at ''curing'' people of their homosexuality). Instead, he insists, they must be fought -- by anyone (which should be everyone) who believes in the open society. ''I will not engage in a dialogue with those who deny my right to be,'' his book concludes, ''who delegitimize my faith and denounce my struggle before God as worthless.'' He is right: they don't want to share America with people who hold different values; they want dominion -- for the Lord to make an America where other values are impossible to hold. 
 But unless I speak too soon, one notable thing about today's Christian dominionists is how little recent violence they have unleashed. Not too long ago, during another high tide of a culture war, purgative right-wing vigilantism occurred at regular intervals. Just to take a few examples: in 1966, pacifists were found shot in the back of the head on a dirt bank in Richmond, Va.; in 1967, the New Jersey State Police, after subduing the riots in Newark, went on to terrorize innocent bystanders in what a gubernatorial commission called ''a pattern of police action for which there is no possible justification''; in 1968, Cuban exiles bombed more than a dozen offices, both of radical publishers and of nations trading with Castro, in the New York metropolitan area; in 1969, in Chicago, a vigilante beat a radical sociology professor in his office and left him for dead. Self-identified evangelical Christians have carried out acts like this in the past. But virtually none have occurred in years.
 There may now indeed be millions more Americans than ever who fantasize about the purgation of their spiritual-cum-political enemies. Readers have, after all, bought more than 60 million books in the ''Left Behind'' series, a pornography of violence in which the Almighty melts the flesh of unbelievers and wrong-believers off their bones. The message people seem to be imbibing from these novels and from their preachers, however, is not: Take vengeance. It is: Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. Hedges is worst when he makes the supposed imminence of mass violence the reason the rest of us should be fighting for the open society. We should be fighting for it anyway.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A review on Jan. 7 about ''American Fascists: The Christian Right and the War on America,'' by Chris Hedges, referred incorrectly to American Veterans in Domestic Defense, a group that conducted a traveling exhibit of a Ten Commandments monument banned from the judicial building in Montgomery, Ala. The group and its tour are in fact mentioned in the book.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Patrick Thomas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RELIGION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (71%); LITERATURE (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: TOM COBURN (67%) Rick Perlstein; Chris Hedges

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (50%) UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SERBIA (79%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



121 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 5456 words

HEADLINE: Happiness 101

BYLINE: By D.T. Max. 
D.T. Max is a frequent contributor to the magazine. His most recent book is ''The Family That Couldn't Sleep,'' a scientific and cultural history of fatal familial insomnia, mad cow and other prion diseases.

 BODY:
''One Tuesday last fall I sat in on a positive-psychology class called the Science of Well-Being -- essentially a class in how to make yourself happier -- at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va. George Mason is a challenge for positive psychologists because it is one of the 15 unhappiest campuses in America, at least per The Princeton Review. Many students are married and already working and commute to school. It's a place where you go to move your career forward, not to find yourself.
The class was taught by Todd Kashdan, a 32-year-old psychology professor whose area of research is ''curiosity and well-being.'' Kashdan bobbed around the room or sat, legs dangling, on his desk beneath a big PowerPoint slide that said ''The Scientific Pursuit of Happiness'' as he took the students, a few older than he, through the various building blocks of positive psychology: optimism, gratitude, mindfulness, hope, spirituality. Though the syllabus promised to ''approach every topic in this class as scientists'' and the assigned readings were academic, the classroom discussion was Oprah-ish. The students seemed intrigued by the research Kashdan presented mostly in relation to their own lives. 
 The focus of Kashdan's class that day was the distinction between feeling good, which according to positive psychologists only creates a hunger for more pleasure -- they call this syndrome the hedonic treadmill -- and doing good, which can lead to lasting happiness. The students had been asked first to do something that gave them pleasure and then to perform an act of selfless kindness. They approached the first part of the assignment eagerly. One student recounted having sex with her boyfriend 30 feet underwater while scuba diving. Another said he ''went to Coastal Flats and got hammered.'' A third attended a Nascar race in North Carolina, smoked, drank and had sex. Some also watched favorite TV shows; others chatted with friends.
 When it came time to talk about the second part of the assignment, the students were excited, too. The Nascar attendee, who was afraid of needles, gave blood. Another collected clothes from family members and donated them to a shelter for battered women. The boy who had gotten hammered bought a homeless person a 12-pack of ''Natty Ice'' at a 7-Eleven, wondering if it was the right thing to do. A fourth gave her waiter at Denny's a $50 tip. At times, Kashdan, who ran the class in the nonjudgmental manner of a '70s rap-session leader -- he used the word ''cool'' a lot -- would compliment them on their behavior and pull out a moral. In this case, as one student wrote in a summary she submitted to Kashdan, comparing ''a day at the spa covered in really expensive French'' stuff and ''a day of community improvement covered in horse'' manure, the smile on the community organizer's face ''beat out the smile on the masseur's face any day.'' That is, she had learned that doing good is good for you. 
 Though Kashdan brought up published studies that optimistic people live longer and that certain regions of the brains of positive people show more activity (''Have a very active left prefrontal lobe day,'' he joked at one point), in class they didn't spend a lot of time on clinical research. Absent were the rats with electrodes, data charts, syndromes and neuroses. The main experimental corpus seemed to be the students themselves, with Kashdan assuming the role of therapist, asserting that pleasure isn't enough. True happiness comes with meaning, he said, and the students agreed.
 I sat in on the course a few more times during the semester, and when Kashdan was done with pleasure versus selfless giving, he took up gratitude and forgiveness, close relationships and love, then spirituality and well-being and finally ''meaning and purpose in life.'' ''I never use the word morality,'' Kashdan said. Rather his goal was to show that ''there are ways of living that research shows lead to better outcomes.''
 More than 200 colleges and graduate schools in the United States offer classes like the one at George Mason. At the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Barbara Fredrickson passes out notebooks with clouds on a powdery blue cover for each student. At the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point, students pass out chocolates and handwritten notes to school custodians and secretaries. The introductory positive-psychology class at Harvard attracted 855 students last spring, making it the most popular class at the school. ''I teach my class on two levels,'' says Tal Ben-Shahar, the instructor. ''It's like a regular academic course. The second level is where they ask the question, How can I apply this to my life?'' True, the course is known as a gut, but it is also significant that 23 percent of the students who commented on it in the undergraduate evaluation guide said that it had improved their lives. ''It wasn't until my senior year that I started thinking maybe law school wasn't for me,'' wrote one graduate, Elizabeth Peterson, in her biographical precis for the masters program in applied positive psychology at the University of Pennsylvania. She had decided to take the class on a whim. ''I was pretty much hooked from there. I realized that what I loved the most was talking to people about their problems.'' 
 Positive psychology brings the same attention to positive emotions (happiness, pleasure, well-being) that clinical psychology has always paid to the negative ones (depression, anger, resentment). Psychoanalysis once promised to turn acute human misery into ordinary suffering; positive psychology promises to take mild human pleasure and turn it into a profound state of well-being. ''Under certain circumstances, people -- they're not desperate or in misery -- they start to wonder what's the best thing life can offer,'' says Martin Seligman, one of the field's founders, who heads the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania. Thus positive psychology is not only about maximizing personal happiness but also about embracing civic engagement and spiritual connectedness, hope and charity. ''Aristotle taught us virtue isn't virtue unless you choose it,'' Seligman says.
 Sitting in Kashdan's classroom, you might wonder whether psychology had abandoned its proper territory or found a new one, and if a new one, whether it owed more to science or to Sunday school. Perhaps that was because the class reflected the discipline's own tension between simplicity and complexity, ''good tough science,'' as Seligman calls it, and airier talk of values. With its emphasis on the self in the world, positive psychology is already an ethics seminar. Which is fitting, given that it has its roots in a Socratic dialogue of sorts. Seligman likes to tell the story of how his daughter Nikki, when she was 5, accused him of being a grouch. She reminded him that he had criticized her for being whiny and that she had worked hard to stop whining. If she could stop being whiny, he could stop being grumpy. He realized, he says, that she was right, that he was ''a pessimist and depressive and someone of high critical intelligence'' and that he needed to change. Seligman, who at 54 had just been elected president of the American Psychological Association and was renowned for his hard science -- most of his research had been in depression -- decided to put his considerable talents into finding out ''what made life worth living.'' 
 Though positive psychology is only beginning to be used as an educational tool in classrooms and secondary schools, in the nine years since Seligman's epiphany it has taken a firm hold in academia. The field's steering committee includes a number of psychologists and psychiatrists who have done highly regarded clinical work: Ed Diener of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, whose specialty is ''subjective well-being''; Christopher Peterson at the University of Michigan, who has made a study of admired character traits around the world; George Vaillant, who has long headed a Harvard project tracking success and failure among the college's graduates; and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi of Claremont Graduate University, who has spent years studying ''optimal functioning,'' or the state of being intensely absorbed in a task, what he calls ''flow.'' Seligman's book, ''Authentic Happiness,'' published in 2002, lays out the field's fundamental principles and has been translated into nearly 20 languages. Last year's annual positive-psychology summit in Washington attracted hundreds of academics working in the field or interested in doing so, as well as a children's programming director, who was working to imbue her cartoons with positive psychology messages, and the Nobel Prize-winning economist Daniel Kahneman, who studies the relationship between economics and perceptions of happiness. In addition there were a lot of ''life coaches,'' independent consultants who hire themselves out to help clients achieve their life goals. 
 Despite its seemingly American emphasis on self-reliance and self-expression, positive psychology is also proving popular in England and the British Commonwealth. Nick Baylis, a psychologist at Cambridge University, helped found the Well-being Institute there last year and is consulting with Wellington College, a private boarding and day school, on how to apply positive psychology to its curriculum. The Geelong Grammar School, a prestigious boarding and day school in Australia, is planning to shape its curriculum around the precepts of positive psychology in 2008, and the government of Scotland has also been in touch with Seligman to see whether the discipline might help its citizens. ''Our old nation has been renewed through our new Parliament, and if we can embrace this new science of positive psychology, we have the opportunity to create a new Enlightenment,'' one government official announced. 
 Positive psychology is popular with educators because if happiness is something that can be learned, it can be taught. And because being happier seems to have positive long-term effects not just on well-being but also on health and life span. In one often-cited study, researchers at the University of Kentucky analyzed the essays novices born before 1917 wrote on entering the School Sisters of Notre Dame and correlated them to the nuns' life spans. They found that 9 out of 10 of the most positive 25 percent of the nuns were still alive at 85, while only one-third of the least positive 25 percent were. Overall, their study showed positive emotions correlated to a 10-year increase in life span, greater even than the differential between smokers and nonsmokers. Another study, by Dacher Keltner, a psychology professor at U.C. Berkeley, correlated the smiles that the female graduates of Mills College in Oakland, Calif., displayed in two mid-20th-century yearbooks with life satisfaction and found that the bigger the smile, the more satisfying the marriage and the greater their well-being. Inspired by studies like these, positive psychologists have developed ''interventions,'' or practices, designed to maximize positive emotions and have tested them on thousands of people. One such intervention is to think every night about the good things that happened to you that day. Another is to make sure in any given day that you either work or play in a new area that draws on what positive psychologists call your ''signature strengths'' to create a sense of well-being. Gratitude visits -- looking up someone who has taught or mentored you and thanking him or her -- are important in positive psychology, too; this last intervention, studies show, gives the biggest increase in happiness of all.
 In the first few weeks of the semester, Kashdan asked his students to keep a record of their thoughts and experiences. He then gave them ''experiential assignments'' to make them happier, working their emotions the way an athletic coach might work their muscles. One week they were to report on attempts to go into ''flow.'' ''Sex, drugs and chocolate are all highly useful avenues for people to attain flow states,'' Kashdan said. To enter flow, students were asked to do something that they were good at, be it writing, playing basketball or talking to their friends. According to positive psychology, your signature strengths play a special role in building your confidence and thus bringing you happiness. Seligman's Web site, authentichappiness.org, has a 240-question test to help determine whether your gift is for creativity, bravery, love or something else. In class, one student recounted going into flow during a fistfight; another told of being at her father's grave. A third talked about being with a friend watching TV and suddenly having a profound conversation. ''We had so much love for each other,'' the student remembered in class, ''and suddenly we were crying.''
 Several studies undertaken by positive psychologists have suggested that meditation enhances well-being, so another class assignment was to meditate for 15 minutes three days in a row, attend a free yoga class (Kashdan's wife, a yoga instructor, arranged this with her studio), be mindful twice a day and report on the results. The mindfulness exercises -- excercises in heightened awareness and openness to experience -- are central to positive psychology and made a big impression, according to Kashdan: ''Some said they just noticed for the first time how many types of trees there are on the way to campus.''
 The following week, students were asked to watch ''Before Sunrise'' and ''Before Sunset,'' movies starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. In the former, the two fall in love through intense conversation during one long evening in Vienna and then part. The sequel catches up with them nine years later. The students had to write about the first time they fell in love. The next assignment was to pay a gratitude visit or write a gratitude letter. After that, the students were to exercise their curiosity by doing something ''novel, complex, and uncertain . . . epistemic, sensory and social'' -- that is, they were to use their signature strengths to try something new. One student tasted a pomegranate for the first time; another went to a book reading by Carly Fiorina, the former C.E.O. of Hewlett-Packard. Finally, the students were asked to select one memory they would be willing to spend an eternity with, an intervention inspired by the Japanese movie ''After Life.''
 Kashdan's enthusiasm -- he is a passionate teacher -- ate up class time, and so the students never got to other parts of the syllabus, among them optimism exercises and exercises that would make them better teammates. On the last week, students handed in their final papers, describing how they had tried to enhance their lives toward, in Kashdan's words, ''a specific, personally meaningful positive outcome'' during the semester. There was no final exam; the students' grades were based in large part on the paper and class participation.
 In an era when psychology is seeking to become a hard science of fM.R.I.'s and evidence-based therapies, when, as Seligman says, ''if it doesn't plug into the wall, it's not science,'' positive psychology can seem like a retro endeavor with the appeal of a cure that fits on a recipe card. While this may make it particularly adaptable for use in the classroom, critics are often most disturbed by what they perceive as its prescriptive nature. ''There is way too little evidence of stable, long-term benefits -- and lack of harm -- to justify large-scale incorporation of positive psychology programs into schools,'' Julie Norem, chairwoman of the psychology department at Wellesley College in Massachusetts, said in an e-mail message. ''It pays scant attention to individual differences.'' For all that the open, 1960s-style classroom has fallen out of favor, it allowed a child to find his or her own way. In the words of the founder of the famous Summerhill school in England, a child should be free ''to live his own life -- not the life that his anxious parents think he should live, nor a life according to the purpose of the educator who thinks he knows best.'' Children were treated as unique, which you might think would result in a more capable, independent adults. By comparison, positive psychology can seem as if it is laying out a road and asking the adherent to follow. ''If I could wave my magic wand, there would be no positive psychology -- there would be positive psychologists,'' says Daniel Gilbert, a professor of psychology at Harvard, whose own work in the science of affective forecasting suggests that what we think will make us happy rarely does, or at least not for long. ''I guess I just wish it didn't look so much like a religion.''
 Indeed, the sectlike feel of positive psychology can be hard to shake off when watching classes like Kashdan's or even when reviewing the record of the field's beginnings. When Seligman was first trying to establish the discipline, he and his colleagues invited 25 young psychologists to the Yucatan to discuss the positive side of life. They snorkeled and talked philosophy and then swam some more. They summarized their work and listened to others' reactions. One evening, the group devoted itself to poetry and song. Seligman recited Ezra Pound's ''Immorality''; a colleague named Sonja Lyubomirsky read some of Prospero's speeches from ''The Tempest.'' Seligman's daughter Lara -- Seligman educates his five younger children in part by traveling with them -- recited a Delmore Schwartz poem, ''I Am Cherry Alive.'' 
 The talk under the palapas was not just about happiness but also about engagement. Participants contrasted the ''hedonic treadmill'' with ''the meaningful life.'' To find the qualities that gave life purpose, the team examined Western religions, Buddhism, Hinduism, Confucianism and Bushido as well as the mores of 70 nations. Over time, positive psychologists, led by Christopher Peterson, settled on 24 virtues -- or character strengths, as they prefer to call them -- including courage, modesty, spirituality and leadership. ''The agenda comes from the world,'' Seligman told me. ''These are universals we're after.''
 The search for what unites humans in virtue was an ambitious effort to integrate psychology with those fields that have long sat alongside it: ethics, religion, philosophy. Before the retreat in Mexico, Seligman met with one of his former professors, the Harvard philosopher Robert Nozick. His book ''The Examined Life,'' written late in his career, looked at how questions of value might be related to everyday experience. It was Nozick who suggested a ''taxonomy of character,'' by which he meant, as Seligman put it, a list of ''those abiding moral traits that everyone values.'' Lyubomirsky remembers that many of the young scientists were uncomfortable doing so. ''There was a lot of debate about it,'' she said. ''We were trained as hard scientists.'' Seligman wasn't so sure himself that he wanted virtue to be part of positive psychology either: he was wary of science becoming prescriptive, but Csikszentmihalyi was enthusiastic, Seligman recalled, and in the end Seligman agreed. 
 Two criticisms as troubling as the problem of positive psychology's religiosity are 1) that it is not new -- psychology always cared about happiness and 2) that the publicity about the field has gotten ahead of the science, which may be no good anyway. True, there have been attempts to marry psychology to ethics, to enlist it in the service of decoding what it means to be fully human, throughout its history. In the 1950s and '60s, for instance, Abraham Maslow and Carl Rogers, among others, established humanistic psychology to focus on what gave meaning to life, looking at the very subjects positive psychologists now take as their own. But where Maslow and Rogers relied primarily on qualitative research for their theories, Seligman and his colleagues hope to establish positive psychology -- and thus the nature of happiness itself -- on firmer scientific ground. The idea that whatever science there is may not yet be first-class troubles Seligman, too. ''I have the same worry they do. That's what I do at 4 in the morning,'' he says.
 When Todd Kashdan asked his students at George Mason to tell him which they liked better, experiencing pleasure or doing good, he cautioned, ''Don't give me the Miss Universe answers.'' But when I met the participants in the nation's only master's program in applied positive psychology, at the University of Pennsylvania, I felt the spirit of Gandhi was hovering over us. One woman wrote in her application essay, ''My strange and energetic career has included activism for peace and justice; teaching safety and self-defense skills to 10,000 students.'' She was also a founder of two nonprofit organizations and taught ''Swedish massage and stress-reduction skills.'' Another sold her Mercedes and was using her savings to pay for the course. A third left banking to find the meaning in life. 
 There were, in all, about 30 students in the master's class at Penn on the Saturday in September I attended. MAPP, as the program is known, is organized around intensive days of class time, online work and conference calls. Seligman, who runs the program, says that he likes to invite others to lecture so he can learn what's going on in the field, and so that day Barbara Fredrickson of the University of North Carolina was presenting her ''broaden and build'' theory, while Seligman sat at a little table nodding and taking notes. ''It's a neat design that allows humans and other organisms to grow and become more resourceful versions of themselves,'' she told the class.
 The first part of her theory stems from a series of experiments that she published in 2005 in which five groups of 20 people each watched short film clips. The clips were meant to elicit negative, positive or neutral emotions. The participants were given a sheet ruled with 20 blank lines and asked to write down what they were feeling. Those who had just had positive emotions induced were able to provide more ideas about what their responses would be than those with either negative or neutral ones.
 For Fredrickson, this was evidence that positive emotions lead to broader thinking. The participants were also tested for what is called global-local-visual processing. When asked to look at a design on a computer of three squares arranged in a triangle, those who had watched happy-making film clips tended to see the broader pattern -- i.e. the triangular pattern -- while the angrier subjects saw only the squares. (The neutral ones saw some of each.) 
 This was only the first part of Fredrickson's theory. But it could be that thinking broadly has no effect on happiness or well-being -- it might even be a deficit. To show that broadening led to building, she then described an experiment she had undertaken on a group of employees at Compuware, a progressive information-technology firm in Detroit. With the company's assistance, she followed two groups -- one that was taught a loving-kindness meditation (a meditation in which the practitioner repeats phrases that cultivate a caring attitude toward all life) and one that was wait-listed for the meditation. After eight weeks, she compared the two groups' responses to questions about well-being. Those who meditated reported higher mental resources than before; their mindfulness, freedom from illness and connectedness to others all increased. But interestingly, their sense of well-being hadn't, at least not immediately. It dropped at first. ''It's like you started a gym membership and then you realize you have to go,'' Fredrickson theorized. But once their sense of well-being increased, they retained their edge over those who only wanted to meditate even after the meditation program was over. 
 All this interested Seligman's students, but what Fredrickson says always catches their attention most is a study Fredrickson did with a Brazilian workplace psychologist named Marcia Losada, who observed annual strategic-review meetings of employees through one-way mirrors. The data she collected showed that the most effective teams -- the criteria were customer satisfaction, profitability and internal review -- were the ones who had more positive meetings. There was even a number that corresponded to the minimum amount of positive to negative feedback necessary to encourage successful functioning. That number, Fredrickson told the class, was three positive comments to one negative comment. ''The ratio lady,'' one student called her. 
 With its emphasis on universals and practical applications, positive psychology fits these divided times: it preaches values without linking them to a particular value system and embraces spirituality without making you go to church. When positive psychology was introduced into the language-arts program at Strath Haven High School outside Philadelphia in 2003, the left-leaning parents welcomed it because the values were internationally accepted; all but the most conservative ones were reassured that there were values at all.
 Seligman recently held a meeting with the leaders from the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey, the Episcopal Academy in Merion, Pa., the Riverdale Country School in the Bronx and the KIPP program, a national network of public charter schools, at which the educational leaders discussed introducing positive psychology into their schools. They are all looking to restore ''wholeness'' to the teenage years, to replace the supposed sense of certainty that the '60s removed and that returned in the '80s as a national political objective but that teachers are now too bogged down in the fundamentals to teach and adults, working longer and longer hours, are simply too busy to shore up at home. A follow-up meeting is scheduled for June, this time with a dozen schools; one item on the agenda is to add personal strengths and virtues to admissions criteria. (Educational Testing Service is exploring a test that students wouldn't be able to fake.) ''What this is about is building character,'' Seligman says.
 Currently, the biggest project on positive psychology's drawing board is at the Geelong School. ''As a school, we would like to know how to make all students more resilient, how to turn depressing thoughts into positive ones,'' Charles Scudamore, the head of the project at what Seligman calls ''Australia's Eton,'' wrote in an e-mail message. That there is a need for a curriculum to promote engagement and happiness among teenagers is obvious, and Geelong is the first school to give positive psychologists a chance to show that they can really change teaching. According to Scudamore, ''When we adopt a positive-psychology approach, it will be seen and practiced in all that we do.'' The Australians ''have had a lot of depression in kids, that's half the reason they want it,'' said Ed Diener, the professor of psychology at the University of Illinois.
 What the psychologists have in mind for Geelong is very much the sort of intervention Kashdan was teaching at George Mason. The draft proposal by which they secured Geelong's support included gratitude exercises, exercises in the ''three pathways of happiness,'' ''the four ways to promote savoring'' and ''the five ways to overcome'' adversity. To teach savoring, the teacher would explain mindfulness and show the students how to taste their food more thoroughly and then instruct them to try ''savoring with a friend.'' The students would have journals to record their emotions, their ''grudges and gratitudes.'' They would mentor a younger student too. Scudamore says he hopes that even the teachers will feel ''their well-being'' and their teaching skills enhanced. Seligman and his family are scheduled to make a six-month visit. An American-trained positive-psychology instructor will be in residence to provide training and real-time feedback. 
 This endeavor outstrips the ongoing Strath Haven experiment. The effort there, financed by a $2.8 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education, is limited to the ninth-grade language-arts program. At the school last year, the positive psychologists interwove their teachings with the literature classes. The idea was to buffer the lessons from bleak books like ''Lord of the Flies'' and ''Romeo and Juliet'' with some reassuring thoughts -- or at least a more positive framework for understanding human behavior than the classics offer. Thus, according to Mark Linkins, now coordinator of the Swarthmore school district's curriculum, who helped teach the classes, the animalistic and murderous Jack in ''Lord of the Flies'' shows ''what happens when someone is lacking in signature strengths.'' And when reading ''The Odyssey,'' students were asked: ''What are the signature strengths that Odysseus lived and breathed? What are the things he might have improved on to make things go better?'' It is too soon to know the effect of these stratagems on the school's students, since part of the protocol agreed to with the Department of Education requires that they be followed for four years. The results will be compared with a control group that received the standard curriculum. (For his part, Seligman home-schools the children he had with his second wife. He says he likes to balance the standard high-school fare he gives the older ones with ''books in which notions of virtue and nobility do not end in humiliation and death,'' like Harper Lee's ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' and Arthur C. Clarke's ''Childhood's End.'')
 Not all positive psychologists are sure educational interventions are a good idea. Lyubormisky, for instance, turned down a similar request from the Compton school system in California. ''I did not think the science was ready to be applied in that big a way,'' she told me. Linkins acknowledges that happiness may come at the cost of a full understanding of literature and human complexity. But, he said, ''it's preferable to be happy than not, even if that means the potential for creative output is diminished.''
 The question is, Can positive psychology actually fulfill its promise of making people happier? If positive emotions widen the sphere of what it is to be human, as positive psychology asserts, then positive psychology, at least as it is taught in the classroom, can seem to narrow it. If you are not optimistic, fake it. If you do not have friends, make some. I wondered what sort of student positive psychology would create. Was he or she more likely to be a future Nobel Peace Prize winner or J. P. (Gus) Godsey, the Virginia Beach stockbroker, dad and Craftsmen-tool enthusiast whom USA Weekend Magazine declared in 2003 ''the happiest person in America'' (''You are a blessed, happy person, Gus,'' Martin Seligman commented in the article. ''You've created many of your blessings on your own.'')
 When I e-mailed various graduates of Penn's first master's class, I found that they continued to take positive psychology's emphasis on the engaged life very seriously. One woman was using positive psychology to teach first-year medical students better patient-communication skills, citing Fredrickson's optimal flourishing ratio as a benchmark. John Yeager, who has a doctorate in education and runs the Center for Character Excellence at the Culver Academies, a boarding school in Indiana, wants to ''help teachers 'broaden and build' character strengths and positive emotions in children, young adults and themselves.'' 
 Of course the master's students were a self-selected group, willing to pay almost $40,000 for a degree with no clear career track. The students at George Mason, though they, too, had chosen the course, were perhaps more relevant to the question of what positive psychology can really teach. There I found a mixed response. They seemed remarkably sure that they had undergone an important experience but less sure what the nature of that experience had been. Had they saved the world or themselves? I spoke to Brandon Rasmussen, an easygoing student who seemed to me like a surfer dude washed up on some New Age shore. The class had energized him, and he had been a vigorous participant -- earning an A. His final paper was about learning to really be with his friends, going into flow with them, something he had long had difficulty doing. ''My personal satisfaction is the personal measure for me, and my personal satisfaction is great,'' he explained. ''I hate to say this, but really in the scheme of things we're not going to change the war in Iraq.'' Then he paused and thought how that sounded. ''We can only fix the world one person at a time.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 7 about the psychology of happiness misstated the given name of a Brazilian psychologist who studied positive reinforcement in the workplace. He is Marcial Losada, not Marcia. The article also misspelled in one instance the surname of another psychologist who has done work in the field. She is Sonja Lyubomirsky, not Lyubormisky.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Stephen Lewis)Drawing (Drawing by Ian Adelman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (67%); WATER SPORTS (62%); SCUBA DIVING (62%); NASCAR RACING (61%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (60%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Psychology and Psychologists; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: EDUCATION HOLDINGS 1 INC (57%); 7-ELEVEN INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

PERSON: D T Max

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (59%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



122 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Rock 'n' Roll Goes to Congress 

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

 BODY:
AT the peak of their popularity, the 1970s band Orleans was touring 10 months a year, performing their big hits ''Still the One'' and ''Dance With Me.'' But John Hall, the band's guitarist, wasn't content to stick to the bouncy tunes and lyrics about sweet romance. He also used the stage to lecture audiences about the dangers of plutonium production.
 ''He would take the liberty of getting on the soapbox at a lot of concerts and go on a bit about nuclear power,'' said Larry Hoppen, the bass guitarist for Orleans. ''But you have to understand it in the context of the '70s, with the Nixon thing and the nuke thing.
''In retrospect, it was uncomfortable sometimes, but it was never so bad that a manager said, 'Hey, you've got to cut this stuff out.' '' 
 Mr. Hall's rock friends became used to the policy wonk within. Jackson Browne remembers him talking politics backstage while packing up his guitar. 
 Mr. Hall was one of many political activists from that era. But when he was sworn in as a congressman on Thursday, he became the first bona fide rock 'n' roll musician in the House of Representatives. (Sonny Bono did not play an instrument.)
 The ratty T-shirts and the long hair are gone, and the bare-chested album covers have given way to dark suits, conservative ties and wingtip shoes. When Mr. Hall, 58, unfolds his lanky frame out of his Subaru Outback, he looks corporate, and when he speaks, the words spew in paragraphs on topics like the importance of renewable energy and raising the minimum wage.
 But then there is that moment he plays air guitar to illustrate how facile he is with his left hand. And there are the first name references to Bonnie, Jackson and Pete (Raitt, Browne and Seeger). 
 ''John somehow managed to keep the idealism that so many people had in the '60s and '70s, while at the same time mastering a kind of pragmatism,'' said Mr. Browne, who collaborated with Mr. Hall in the studio and in an antinuclear movement in the 1970s. 
 Mr. Hall, a Democrat, defeated Sue W. Kelly, the Republican who had held the seat for six terms, to represent the 19th Congressional District of New York, which stretches from the Connecticut line, through the Hudson Valley, across the Catskills and to the Pennsylvania border. 
 His inauguration ceremony was attended by his daughter, parents, brother and other supporters; afterward his New York delegation colleagues Nita Lowey and Elliot Engel stopped by. That day, he also helped elect Nancy Pelosi as the first female speaker of the House and tackled ethics rules and legislation. 
 Other entertainers have been elected to office -- Ronald Reagan, Arnold Schwarzenegger -- but most have been Republicans. Mr. Hall is as liberal as the ''Bring Them Home'' ribbon decal on his car suggests, campaigning not only for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq but also for universal health care and reduced dependence on foreign oil. 
 Even in a Congress elected to bring change, his positions are a step to the left of many representatives, and he is a relative novice to politics, his previous electoral experience limited to winning a seat on a local school board and in the Ulster County Legislature. There, he helped defeat a proposal for a trash-burning facility in Saugerties, near Woodstock -- a victory that some say hardly merits election to Congress.
 ''John was in a band and helped fight a dump, but there's a big difference between stopping a landfill and fighting issues like terrorism,'' said Robert T. Aiello, a Republican Ulster County legislator. ''I wish him the best, but he absolutely has his work cut out for him.''
 Ms. Raitt, who organized Musicians for Safe Energy (MUSE) with Mr. Hall in the 1970s, said that early on, the group relied on his ability to think and speak on his feet.
 ''John was the brains in the outfit,'' she said. ''While we were all educated and informed and motivated, in terms of explaining the nuts and bolts, John was always very intellectually astute and articulate, as well as being incredibly facile on the guitar and very plugged into that creative muse.''
 And even as he was writing tunes with stick-in-the-head melodies and sappy lyrics, Mr. Hall was turning out songs about the environment -- ''Power'' -- and the economy -- ''Plastic Money.'' 
 ''His big hits are very sweet, but he's also really written songs about what he believes in,'' Mr. Browne said. ''It will be interesting to see what creative power he'll be able to bring to the political business.''
 Mr. Hall was advised to play down his past in the campaign. He rarely appeared in anything less formal than a suit. His statements were deliberate and careful. 
 Which makes it hard to explain how he ended up singing a duet of ''Dance With Me'' with Stephen Colbert on Comedy Central. In the segment, which ran a few weeks before the election, Mr. Colbert teased Mr. Hall about how pleased he must have been that President George W. Bush had used ''Still the One'' as a theme song for his 2004 reelection campaign. Mr. Hall said that he had a lawyer draft a formal complaint.
 Mr. Colbert persisted, saying what a fitting song it was for the president because, ''we're still having fun and he's still the one.'' A few minutes later, Mr. Colbert asked his guest to harmonize. Mr. Hall demurred, saying that his advisers had told him to stick to political issues. But when Mr. Colbert chided him, ''I say go with what you know,'' Mr. Hall was soon singing. The clip, widely circulated on YouTube, helped make the long-shot race competitive. 
 Mr. Hall, who won a crowded primary for the Democratic nomination, began with a campaign fund of $57,000 to Mrs. Kelly's $900,000. But having famous friends didn't hurt.
 ''I didn't have Exxon or Mobil, but I had Jackson and Bonnie and Pete,'' Mr. Hall said. Their concerts in the Hudson Valley area not only raised money -- Mr. Browne's netted $100,000 in two days -- but also generated publicity.
 Mr. Hall, who is usually serious and low-key, became emotional when talking about the relationship between music and politics.
 ''Jackson sang a song, 'Waiting Here for Every Man,' '' Mr. Hall said, his voice catching as he referred to Mr. Browne's ''For Everyman,'' ''which I remember from his first album, a song that struck me as being about the lethargy and apathy and fatalism of most Americans while they wait for someone to please sort out this mess.'' 
 The campaign was intense. At one point, an unsigned flier circulated with the message: ''John Hall, wrong for America.'' It featured Mr. Hall from his rock days, long-haired and bare-chested. 
 The day before the election, voters were swamped with automated calls featuring President Bush, who urged them to re-elect Mrs. Kelly. 
 ''I was going to say thank you,'' Mr. Hall said of the phone campaign. ''Of all the campaign blunders, it was the most significant.''
 Mrs. Kelly did not reply to messages seeking a response.
 Now Mr. Hall has gone to Washington. A few days after his election, he attended new-member orientation, with lectures on everything from staffing district offices to finding housing. The new members picked up tips like: If you find a pair of comfortable shoes, buy one pair for Washington and one for home.
 On a bus ride to one event, Mr. Hall compared notes about being well known with his fellow freshman Heath Shuler, a former professional football player. 
 A few representatives asked him to sing with them, including Paul W. Hodes of New Hampshire, a fellow guitar player. He joked that the two could form a duo, Hall & Hodes -- sounds like Hall & Oates, another popular '70s singing group with whom Mr. Hall is often confused.
 Mr. Hall also spent a week at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, attending sessions that he described as ''sobering.''
 In Washington, he has been assigned to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
 In some ways, the transition will be easier for him than for other new members. Mr. Hall is used to being a public figure and to traveling. He also has family in the Washington area, including his daughter, Sofi, who is studying for a Master of Fine Arts degree at the University of Maryland, and a brother, Jerry, a Jesuit priest who teaches at Catholic University. His parents live outside of Baltimore.
 Mr. Hall lives in Dover Plains with his wife, Pamela, a lawyer who, according to Mr. Browne, also plays a mean guitar.
 Between orientation sessions and apartment shopping, he has been back in his district, on ''listening tours.'' At a recent holiday fair in Putnam County, he segued from discussing post-traumatic stress syndrome with a police officer who had been at the World Trade Center to wetlands management with a woman from a conservation group, and stopped to buy a T-shirt with the message ''The One with the Most Guitars Wins '' for his wife.
 Mr. Hoppen said that people might underestimate his former partner.
 ''People may figure he's just a rock star and he lucked out because of the general tide, and they're wrong,'' Mr. Hoppen said.
 Ms. Raitt said she sees him in the mold of Bill Bradley, the former New Jersey senator. ''Of all the musicians I know that have been activists,'' she said, ''the best suited for the job of actually going to Congress is John.''
 Mr. Browne's take: ''A guitar player for Congress, it makes all the sense in the world to me. Musicians organize the world in certain ways. John's idealism comes from the same place his music does. It comes from joy.''
 Still, the night before his election, Mr. Hall said, he and his wife rented the movie ''The Candidate,'' starring Robert Redford. ''When he wins, he says, 'What do we do now?' '' Mr. Hall said. 
 ''You get the feeling, the look, the personality, the few catchphrases, the buzzwords, the talking points. But then you have to get down to the complexity of actually having to govern.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 7 about Representative John Hall, a Democrat newly elected to the 19th Congressional District of New York and a former member of the band Orleans, referred incorrectly to a member of the band. Larry Hoppen was the group's lead singer and played keyboards and guitar; he was not its bass guitarist. (Bass guitar was played by Lance Hoppen, Larry's brother.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE CANDIDATE -- John Hall before an appearance on ''The Colbert Report.'' (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 IN CONFERENCE -- Nita M. Lowey, a Congressional veteran from New York, advises John Hall on his first day in the House. At left, Mr. Hall, center, with Orleans. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); POLITICS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ETHICS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) Music

ORGANIZATION: Orleans (Music Group); House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: JOHN J HALL (93%); NITA M LOWEY (51%); NANCY PELOSI (51%) John (Rep) Hall; Kate Stone Lombardi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



123 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Battle Lines in the Fight To Protect Sunnyside

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Brick Houses, Winding Paths and Unexpected Sharp Elbows'' (Dec. 31): 
 Sunnyside Gardens is already a Special Planned Community Preservation District. This ensures the kinds of protections most people think of when they think of ''development'' and changes made to a residential community.
Sunnyside Gardens is currently protected against tear-downs, McMansions, high rises, aluminum siding and so on. In fact, the proposed landmark designation would rescind the special district designation, which currently protects the ''open spaces'' and ''common gardens'' that many of us consider the real historic distinction of the neighborhood. 
 Emphasizing bricks and mortar can come at the expense of economic and ethnic diversity, and neighborliness, which the original designers valued. Thus the disagreements in the community are not between those who wish to protect the community and those who do not, but over what kinds of protections are needed and over the general character of the community in which we live.

Warren Lehrer
Sunnyside, Queens

The writer is the co-author of a book about new immigrants in Queens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%) Historic Buildings and Sites

PERSON: Warren Lehrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Sunnyside Gardens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



124 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk; Correction; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 106 words

 BODY:
A chart with an article last Sunday about the changing demographics of the suburbs contained incorrect percentages for levels of education reported by the census in 2000 and 2005. In 2000, the proportion of the population over 25 with some college was 22.6 percent, not 28.1 percent. In 2005, the proportions in all groups were slightly higher than those reported: The proportion with less than a high school degree was 15.8 percent; the proportion with a high school degree was 27.7 percent; with some college, 23.7 percent; with a college degree, 19.3 percent; with a master's degree, 9.1 percent; with a professional degree, 4.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CENSUS (90%); CITIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Correction Stories; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Aged; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Suburbs; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



125 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; RELOCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Protest Flea Market's Move to Belmont Park

BYLINE: By LINDA F. BURGHARDT

DATELINE: FLORAL PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
JEANS, scarves, jewelry, perfumes, socks, toy trucks, cough medicine, handbags, pots and pans -- all these and more may become available this spring at an outdoor market at Belmont Park. Crowds of shoppers, rivaling those at the races, could be coming, too. 
 But not if residents, school personnel and municipal leaders in the neighboring Villages of Floral Park and Bellerose have their way. 
The open-air market, which would operate in the racetrack's northernmost parking lot on Tuesdays, Saturdays and Sundays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. from March to December, has been operating for the last nine years at Aqueduct Raceway in Queens. The New York Racing Association closed the market to make more room for parking and offered its operator a lease at Belmont Park.
 ''We don't object to the market itself, only the location, which would abut one of our elementary schools,'' said Lynn Pombonyo, the superintendent of the Floral Park-Bellerose school district. ''All there is between the school grounds and the proposed market is a chain-link fence. That looks far too risky to us.''
 Jenell Horan, the school PTA's co-president and parent of four children ranging in age from 7 to 12, agreed. ''It's a very bad setup for the safety of our kids,'' she said. ''Predators and pedophiles are a reality in our society, and they could have access to our kids through the fence.''
 Another parent at the school and a trustee of Bellerose Village, Rosaleen Shea, said: ''How do we know there won't be pornography and drug paraphernalia at the market? Or that our children wouldn't be lured away by offers of iPods or candy?'' 
 Nonsense, said Carol DeSanto, who has managed the Aqueduct flea market for nine years and was astonished at the idea that it could be perceived as a threat. 
 ''Our vendors are good, honest, working people, and we don't attract a rowdy crowd,'' she said. ''Not everyone can afford to shop at Nordstrom or Bloomingdale's, you know. There's a place for an off-price market in today's economy, a very important place.'' 
 Ms. DeSanto has applied for a special permit from the Town of Hempstead, which includes Bellerose and Floral Park, to locate the market at Belmont Park. Even though Floral Park is adjacent to the track, it has no jurisdiction over it, as Belmont Park sits outside the village in an unincorporated part of the town. Joseph Pellegrini, the secretary for the Town Board of Zoning Appeals, said a decision on the permit would be made by the end of January.
 Felice Rubin, who has lived in Floral Park for 25 years and reared two children there, said she would object to any activity that brought a number of people into the neighborhood, regardless of the reason. ''It wouldn't help the quality of life in the village,'' she said, ''and it would certainly raise concerns about our safety.'' 
 To help soothe concerned residents, Ms. DeSanto said she would be willing to reduce the number of vendors to 400 at Belmont Park from the 600 she had at Aqueduct. 
 Even with the reduction in vendors, said David Fowler, president of the Floral Park-Bellerose school board, noise from the 2,000 to 3,000 people he estimated would attend the market would disturb children in the classroom and at play outdoors. 
 Ms. DeSanto said the market would draw 8,000 to 10,000 shoppers on a busy day and 1,500 at a time. Belmont Park averaged 4,629 racing patrons a day last fall.
 The Floral Park mayor, Phil Guarnieri, said that the ball fields were used seven days a week for soccer, baseball and lacrosse. ''The market could bring in as many as 1,400 cars,'' he said. ''That's not good for the school or the children.''
 But Frank Formato, who lives in Elmont, which borders Belmont Park to the south, said he would welcome the market at a parking lot near him. ''I'd be happy to shop there,'' he said. ''Everybody likes a bargain.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: NEWER SITE -- Customers shop at the market at Aqueduct Raceway. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ZONING (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (65%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); JURISDICTION (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%) Flea Markets; Renting and Leasing; Belmont Park Race Track ; Aqueduct Race Track 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Racing Assn

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Carol DeSanto; Linda F Burghardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Floral Park (NY); Bellerose (NYC); Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



126 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; RELOCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Protest Flea Market's Move to Belmont Park

BYLINE: By LINDA F. BURGHARDT

DATELINE: FLORAL PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
JEANS, scarves, jewelry, perfumes, socks, toy trucks, cough medicine, handbags, pots and pans -- all these and more may become available this spring at an outdoor market at Belmont Park. Crowds of shoppers, rivaling those at the races, could be coming, too. 
 But not if residents, school personnel and municipal leaders in the neighboring Villages of Floral Park and Bellerose have their way. 
The open-air market, which would operate in the racetrack's northernmost parking lot on Tuesdays, Saturdays and Sundays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. from March to December, has been operating for the last nine years at Aqueduct Raceway in Queens. The New York Racing Association closed the market to make more room for parking and offered its operator a lease at Belmont Park.
 ''We don't object to the market itself, only the location, which would abut one of our elementary schools,'' said Lynn Pombonyo, the superintendent of the Floral Park-Bellerose school district. ''All there is between the school grounds and the proposed market is a chain-link fence. That looks far too risky to us.''
 Jenell Horan, the school PTA's co-president and parent of four children ranging in age from 7 to 12, agreed. ''It's a very bad setup for the safety of our kids,'' she said. ''Predators and pedophiles are a reality in our society, and they could have access to our kids through the fence.''
 Another parent at the school and a trustee of Bellerose Village, Rosaleen Shea, said: ''How do we know there won't be pornography and drug paraphernalia at the market? Or that our children wouldn't be lured away by offers of iPods or candy?'' 
 Nonsense, said Carol DeSanto, who has managed the Aqueduct flea market for nine years and was astonished at the idea that it could be perceived as a threat. 
 ''Our vendors are good, honest, working people, and we don't attract a rowdy crowd,'' she said. ''Not everyone can afford to shop at Nordstrom or Bloomingdale's, you know. There's a place for an off-price market in today's economy, a very important place.'' 
 Ms. DeSanto has applied for a special permit from the Town of Hempstead, which includes Bellerose and Floral Park, to locate the market at Belmont Park. Even though Floral Park is adjacent to the track, it has no jurisdiction over it, as Belmont Park sits outside the village in an unincorporated part of the town. Joseph Pellegrini, the secretary for the Town Board of Zoning Appeals, said a decision on the permit would be made by the end of January.
 Felice Rubin, who has lived in Floral Park for 25 years and reared two children there, said she would object to any activity that brought a number of people into the neighborhood, regardless of the reason. ''It wouldn't help the quality of life in the village,'' she said, ''and it would certainly raise concerns about our safety.'' 
 To help soothe concerned residents, Ms. DeSanto said she would be willing to reduce the number of vendors to 400 at Belmont Park from the 600 she had at Aqueduct. 
 Even with the reduction in vendors, said David Fowler, president of the Floral Park-Bellerose school board, noise from the 2,000 to 3,000 people he estimated would attend the market would disturb children in the classroom and at play outdoors. 
 Ms. DeSanto said the market would draw 8,000 to 10,000 shoppers on a busy day and 1,500 at a time. Belmont Park averaged 4,629 racing patrons a day last fall.
 The Floral Park mayor, Phil Guarnieri, said that the ball fields were used seven days a week for soccer, baseball and lacrosse. ''The market could bring in as many as 1,400 cars,'' he said. ''That's not good for the school or the children.''
 But Frank Formato, who lives in Elmont, which borders Belmont Park to the south, said he would welcome the market at a parking lot near him. ''I'd be happy to shop there,'' he said. ''Everybody likes a bargain.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: NEWER SITE -- Customers shop at the market at Aqueduct Raceway. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ZONING (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (65%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); JURISDICTION (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%) Flea Markets; Renting and Leasing; Belmont Park Race Track ; Aqueduct Race Track 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Racing Assn

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Carol DeSanto; Linda F Burghardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Floral Park (NY); Bellerose (NYC); Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



127 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk; Correction; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 106 words

 BODY:
A chart with an article last Sunday about the changing demographics of the suburbs contained incorrect percentages for levels of education reported by the census in 2000 and 2005. In 2000, the proportion of the population over 25 with some college was 22.6 percent, not 28.1 percent. In 2005, the proportions in all groups were slightly higher than those reported: The proportion with less than a high school degree was 15.8 percent; the proportion with a high school degree was 27.7 percent; with some college, 23.7 percent; with a college degree, 19.3 percent; with a master's degree, 9.1 percent; with a professional degree, 4.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CENSUS (90%); CITIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Correction Stories; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Suburbs; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Aged

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



128 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: After Pataki's 12 Years, Is New York Better Off?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''The George Pataki Era'' (editorial, Dec. 31) reminds me of Nero before the collapse of the Roman Empire. Gov. George E. Pataki's public service announcements kept running in New York while he ran around the country trying to position himself for a 2008 presidential run. 
 Meanwhile in his home state, the G.O.P. was collapsing. Mr. Pataki's record deficits, excessive spending and late budgets gave real conservative Republicans anguish. 
New York State is now the No. 2 state in the country in terms of long-term debt. Each adult New York resident is responsible for $3,515 of the $50 billion total debt, which almost doubled in the years Mr. Pataki was governor. To that you can add the debt of the New York State public authorities, now $114 billion. 
 While Mr. Pataki was governor, Republicans lost numerous public offices, including Senate and Congressional seats, the office of the attorney general, county executive offices, and State Senate and Assembly seats. 
 In 2008, intelligent primary voters will look past glitzy commercials and remember Mr. Pataki's fiscal mismanagement and the destruction of the state's Republican Party. 

Larry Penner
Great Neck

To the Editor:
 I question your characterization of Gov. George E. Pataki's choices to lead the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation (or what many call the ''Leave Manhattan Destroyed Committee'') as ''excellent,'' and your description of their preferred plans as ''first-rate.''
 The official planning process for the World Trade Center site was an outrage and disgrace from the start, designed to ensure that plans that responded in the only appropriate manner -- rebuilding on the scale and in the spirit of what was destroyed -- were never even considered.
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer could get off to a great start by consigning the Daniel Libeskind plan and the misguided priorities that produced it to the trash bin.

Louis Epstein
Carmel, N.Y.

The writer is the founder and director of the World Trade Center Restoration Movement.

To the Editor:
 Your review of George E. Pataki's governorship did not mention the two most important areas of responsibility of any governor today: economic development and education. 
 When Mr. Pataki's lack of accomplishment in matters of economic development and education is factored in, his administration can be seen as nothing other than a complete and utter failure. 

Paul T. Shoemaker
Bronxville, N.Y.

To the Editor:
 In Gov. George E. Pataki's first budget, he cut state school aid to New York City while increasing it for the rest of the state, leading to a drastic cutback in the city's public school spending at a moment that enrollment was rising. 
 In 1997, Mr. Pataki pushed through his School Tax Relief program, known as STAR, which directed rising state aid to the affluent suburban districts that spend the most, raising the average state aid per student in the affluent downstate suburban counties to almost as high as in New York City. In exchange for STAR, he promised city legislators a state bond referendum to fix the city's aging schools -- a bond issue that was later defeated.
 Nothing else Mr. Pataki has done has had as great an impact on as many people. Elsewhere in the country, those living in districts with larger tax bases and less needy students face a state education aid system that redistributes their state taxes to less well-off districts. 
 Only Mr. Pataki could successfully achieve a state education aid system that actually redistributed education resources away from New York City, home of a majority of the state's neediest children. 
 This unique accomplishment is his true legacy. 

Larry Littlefield
Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); HIJACKING (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); COUNTIES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); TAX LAW (67%); TERRORISM (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX RELIEF (50%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) George E (Gov) Pataki; Larry Penner; Louis Epstein; Paul T Shoemaker; Larry Littlefield

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



129 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 106 words

 BODY:
A chart with an article last Sunday about the changing demographics of the suburbs contained incorrect percentages for levels of education reported by the census in 2000 and 2005. In 2005, the proportion of the population over 25 with some college was 22.6 percent, not 28.1 percent. In 2000, the proportions in all groups were slightly higher than those reported: The proportion with less than a high school degree was 15.8 percent; the proportion with a high school degree was 27.7 percent; with some college, 23.7 percent; with a college degree, 19.3 percent; with a master's degree, 9.1 percent; with a professional degree, 4.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CENSUS (90%); CITIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Correction Stories; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Aged; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Suburbs; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



130 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid Shortfall Hurts Hospitals, Report Finds

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
Insufficient Medicaid payments have left many of the state's hospitals in dire financial shape, with several running a deficit for years, according to a report released last month by the State Legislature.
 Under the current system for Medicaid, the federal and state health care program for the poor that has been in place since 1983, the state's 30 acute-care hospitals are each reimbursed the same amount for every patient, regardless of the patients' treatments. That amount is $4,000, said Stephen A. Frayne, the senior vice president of health policy for the Connecticut Hospital Association.
 ''The reimbursement for someone needing a kidney transplant is the same as for someone who needs an appendectomy,'' he said. 
 Mr. Frayne said that the state's annual rate of reimbursement had failed to keep up with inflation and the hospitals' rising costs.
 The Medicaid system had left the hospitals about $250 million short each year, he said, and because of that deficit, the hospitals are not investing in new equipment, updating technology or making other capital improvements.
 ''If this keeps up, eventually these hospitals will not be state of the art,'' he said.
 In most other states, the Medicaid reimbursement rate is similar to Medicare, the federal health insurance program, and compensates hospitals according to what kind of treatment a patient receives, Mr. Frayne said.
 Toni N. Harp, a state senator representing parts of New Haven and West Haven, said the state should increase Medicaid reimbursements.
 ''We should be paying 90 percent of the cost of patient care, or more,'' she said. ''We should also track our increases to the cost-of-living increases in the Medicare rate.''
 Ms. Harp said the state must also increase the reimbursement rate to doctors. ''Because it is so low, some doctors are not seeing Medicaid patients,'' she said. ''And that's pushing those people to hospital emergency rooms.''

Police Use New Mobile And Arrest 5 for D.U.I.
 The state police deployed its new Breath Alcohol Testing Mobile -- or BAT Mobile -- for the first time at a checkpoint on Route 2A in Preston on New Year's Eve, and used it to arrest five motorists suspected of driving under the influence.
 The BAT Mobile, which cost $250,000, is equipped with a breathalyzer to check a driver's blood alcohol level, a temporary holding cell, an area to process arrests, high-powered outside lights and a video system to record the checkpoint. Troopers save time, the department says, by being able to test motorists right at the mobile, rather than having to take them to a barracks.
 Trooper William Tate, a spokesman for the state police, said the department was pleased with the BAT Mobile's debut last Sunday night. 
 ''It was very effective,'' he said. ''When you have a new piece of equipment, you expect some problems, but there were none. Everything went according to plan.''
 Route 2A was chosen because it was a popular route to and from the two casinos in the state, Trooper Tate said. The state police said it had arrested 40 people over the New Year's weekend on charges of driving under the influence. 
 Lt. J. Paul Vance said the mobile would also be used for various presentations at high schools and colleges.
 ''A lot of people are under the impression that a D.U.I. arrest is similar to a traffic ticket,'' he said. ''We want to show them the jail cell inside this vehicle and let them know that a D.U.I. arrest is court appearance and a lot more.'' 
 Lieutenant Vance said the New London Police Department had a similar vehicle.


GRAPHIC: Photo: CHECKPOINT -- A trooper stopping a driver, with the BAT Mobile nearby. (Photo by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); POLICE FORCES (85%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (73%); COST OF LIVING (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (66%); DRUG TESTING (65%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (60%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (55%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Medicaid; Finances; Roads and Traffic; Alcohol Abuse; New Year; Drunken and Reckless Driving

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut ; Preston (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



131 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Bridging the Worlds of Commerce and the Arts

BYLINE: By LOUISE KRAMER. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN her 30 years as a jazz vocalist, Ellen Christi has received numerous grants from arts organizations to finance music and theater projects in the United States and Europe.
 Her latest grant may be her most prized. It is from Great Performances -- not the public television series, but the Manhattan catering company she works for to support her career as an artist.
Ms. Christi, who holds the position of catering captain, will use the money to complete a recording she made a year ago with Jodie Christian, a Chicago piano player whom Ms. Christi has revered since she was a teenager. Without the grant, the project would still be gathering dust. 
 ''This is tremendous,'' Ms. Christi, 48, said in a recent interview after learning that she was one of three colleagues to win $4,000 from her employer. ''I am constantly on this little treadmill trying to get a lump sum of money together, and then it will slip out for expenses.''
 New York is filled with singers, actors and other artists who pay their bills by working as waiters, store clerks and secretaries, and who often have to delay dream projects. At Great Performances, which says 85 percent of its 525 employees have a connection to the arts, the grants are intended to bring the worlds of the arts and commerce together.
 Liz Neumark, the company's founder and chief executive, established the program in the late 1980s to keep her employees' creative juices flowing while they serve canapes and pour drinks. ''It is about giving back, but also recognition,'' Ms. Neumark said. ''This is how we all started, and we all recognize what it is to have a dream.''
 To be eligible, employees must have worked at least 400 hours in the previous year. The grants are for hourly employees -- about half of the staff -- to finance specific projects aimed at advancing their artistic careers. They are awarded by an outside panel of judges. Amy Todd Middleton, senior vice president of North American marketing for Sotheby's International, one of the sites where Great Performances caters events, was a judge in the latest round. 
 The awards, given every other year, have grown with the company, from $1,000 to $4,000 each. Great Performances started as a catering employment service for women in the arts, and is now a full-service catering business with annual revenue of $35 million. It caters corporate and private events and operates eight cafes, including Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola at Jazz at Lincoln Center. 
 Performers make good catering employees, Ms. Neumark said. They can maneuver through a crowd with grace and improvise if there is an unexpected request or problem. 
 Last month, Great Performances announced the awards at a cocktail reception at Jazz at Lincoln Center, where the assembled were more accustomed to serving food than being catered to. All three recipients work as captains, intermediaries between client, party planner and servers.
 One recipient, Christopher Carlson, plans to reintroduce a Scandinavian-inspired children's accessory line he started with his mother in the early 1990s. He was forced to suspend the business when his mother died of breast cancer in 2001, he said. Garry Novikoff, a singer and songwriter, plans to complete a CD of his own music. 
 Judith E. Glaser, founder of Benchmark Communications, a workplace consultancy with offices in Manhattan and Norwalk, Conn., that advises corporations on leadership and team building, praised the program. She said employees were motivated by more than money alone, and in fact ranked it below new challenges and recognition. She said the grants could pay off not just for the recipient, but also for the company. ''This kind of reward has psychic power that is well beyond economics,'' she said.
 For Ms. Christi, who lives on the Upper West Side, working at Great Performances was not part of her plan. ''I was a singer going around the world doing my thing, living a very fulfilling life,'' she said. But with the recession and the 2001 terrorist attacks, her work dried up, and she lost her savings in the stock market. ''I was on the edge of being destitute,'' she said.
 A friend told her about Great Performances. It was tough for Ms. Christi to take an entry-level job as a coat checker after supporting herself as a singer. But she embraced the work. She has been promoted several times, and she relishes the creative connection shared by so many colleagues. 
 Ms. Christi said the grants help boost employee morale. ''This is a very special way for the corporation to give back to the employees,'' she said. ''They are showing respect to the talent of the staff.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: GRANT RECIPIENT -- Ellen Christi was given a grant by Great Performances, the catering company that employs her, to aid her singing career. Two others were also honored. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CATERING SERVICES (89%); MUSIC (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); JUDGES (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%) Culture; Labor; Grants (Corporate and Foundation)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (52%); COCA-COLA CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Great Performances (Co)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

PERSON: Louise Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (73%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



132 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; RELOCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Protest Flea Market's Move to Belmont Park

BYLINE: By LINDA F. BURGHARDT

DATELINE: FLORAL PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
JEANS, scarves, jewelry, perfumes, socks, toy trucks, cough medicine, handbags, pots and pans -- all these and more may become available this spring at an outdoor market at Belmont Park. Crowds of shoppers, rivaling those at the races, could be coming, too. 
 But not if residents, school personnel and municipal leaders in the neighboring Villages of Floral Park and Bellerose have their way. 
The open-air market, which would operate in the racetrack's northernmost parking lot on Tuesdays, Saturdays and Sundays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. from March to December, has been operating for the last nine years at Aqueduct Raceway in Queens. The New York Racing Association closed the market to make more room for parking and offered its operator a lease at Belmont Park.
 ''We don't object to the market itself, only the location, which would abut one of our elementary schools,'' said Lynn Pombonyo, the superintendent of the Floral Park-Bellerose school district. ''All there is between the school grounds and the proposed market is a chain-link fence. That looks far too risky to us.''
 Jenell Horan, the school PTA's co-president and parent of four children ranging in age from 7 to 12, agreed. ''It's a very bad setup for the safety of our kids,'' she said. ''Predators and pedophiles are a reality in our society, and they could have access to our kids through the fence.''
 Another parent at the school and a trustee of Bellerose Village, Rosaleen Shea, said: ''How do we know there won't be pornography and drug paraphernalia at the market? Or that our children wouldn't be lured away by offers of iPods or candy?'' 
 Nonsense, said Carol DeSanto, who has managed the Aqueduct flea market for nine years and was astonished at the idea that it could be perceived as a threat. 
 ''Our vendors are good, honest, working people, and we don't attract a rowdy crowd,'' she said. ''Not everyone can afford to shop at Nordstrom or Bloomingdale's, you know. There's a place for an off-price market in today's economy, a very important place.'' 
 Ms. DeSanto has applied for a special permit from the Town of Hempstead, which includes Bellerose and Floral Park, to locate the market at Belmont Park. Even though Floral Park is adjacent to the track, it has no jurisdiction over it, as Belmont Park sits outside the village in an unincorporated part of the town. Joseph Pellegrini, the secretary for the Town Board of Zoning Appeals, said a decision on the permit would be made by the end of January.
 Felice Rubin, who has lived in Floral Park for 25 years and reared two children there, said she would object to any activity that brought a number of people into the neighborhood, regardless of the reason. ''It wouldn't help the quality of life in the village,'' she said, ''and it would certainly raise concerns about our safety.'' 
 To help soothe concerned residents, Ms. DeSanto said she would be willing to reduce the number of vendors to 400 at Belmont Park from the 600 she had at Aqueduct. 
 Even with the reduction in vendors, said David Fowler, president of the Floral Park-Bellerose school board, noise from the 2,000 to 3,000 people he estimated would attend the market would disturb children in the classroom and at play outdoors. 
 Ms. DeSanto said the market would draw 8,000 to 10,000 shoppers on a busy day and 1,500 at a time. Belmont Park averaged 4,629 racing patrons a day last fall.
 The Floral Park mayor, Phil Guarnieri, said that the ball fields were used seven days a week for soccer, baseball and lacrosse. ''The market could bring in as many as 1,400 cars,'' he said. ''That's not good for the school or the children.''
 But Frank Formato, who lives in Elmont, which borders Belmont Park to the south, said he would welcome the market at a parking lot near him. ''I'd be happy to shop there,'' he said. ''Everybody likes a bargain.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: NEWER SITE -- Customers shop at the market at Aqueduct Raceway. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ZONING (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (65%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); JURISDICTION (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%) Flea Markets; Renting and Leasing; Belmont Park Race Track ; Aqueduct Race Track 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Racing Assn

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Carol DeSanto; Linda F Burghardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Floral Park (NY); Bellerose (NYC); Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



133 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: The Ferry Alternative To New York City

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Studies on Ferry Service Come Amid Skepticism'' (Dec. 17), on potential ferry service linking Bridgeport, Stamford and New York City, describes the efforts of Joseph A. Riccio, the executive director of the Bridgeport Port Authority, to improve the traffic problems in Connecticut by promoting water transportation to New York City. 
 The unmitigated increase of traffic has caused the federal government and the states to support ferry services that can help alleviate this problem. Our ferry -- a private service that carries passengers and vehicles between Bridgeport and Port Jefferson on Long Island -- has received some of those funds.
 Unfortunately, there's another side to this story in Bridgeport. Regrettably, the Bridgeport Port Authority, created in the early 1990s to generate income for a struggling Bridgeport, decided not to help our ferry, but to tax it. 
 Over the years, this tax has taken more than $12 million from our ferry operation that could have been put to good use for the traveling public we try to serve. 
 The Port Authority has spent much of the $12 million on ill-conceived projects that can only be described as wasteful. The high-speed ferry is but one example. Virtually everyone agrees that it is not economically viable, but that has not stopped the Port Authority from spending tax money it collects from our ferry, as well as government funds, to pursue that pipe dream.
 We have sued the Port Authority to cease the taxing of our ferry operation and to recover the overcharges. The trial, in United States District Court for Connecticut in Hartford, has concluded, and we are awaiting the court's decision.

(Capt.) Brian McAllister
President, The Bridgeport and Port Jefferson Steamboat Company
Bridgeport

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (96%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%) Ferries; Commuting

PERSON: Brian (Capt) McAllister

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Bridgeport (Conn); Stamford (Conn); New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



134 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: After Pataki's 12 Years, Is New York Better Off?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The George Pataki Era'' (editorial, Dec. 31): 
 Gov. George E. Pataki's public service announcements kept running while he ran around the country trying to position himself for a 2008 presidential run. Meanwhile at home, the G.O.P. was collapsing. Mr. Pataki's record deficits, excessive spending and late budgets gave real conservative Republicans anguish. 
New York State is now the No. 2 state in the country in terms of long-term debt. Each adult New York resident is responsible for $3,515 of the $50 billion total debt, which almost doubled in the years Mr. Pataki was governor. To that you can add the debt of the New York State public authorities, now $114 billion. 
 While Mr. Pataki was governor, Republicans lost numerous public offices, including Senate and Congressional seats, the office of the attorney general, county executive offices, and State Senate and Assembly seats. 
 In 2008, intelligent primary voters will look past glitzy commercials and remember Mr. Pataki's fiscal mismanagement and the destruction of the state's Republican Party. 

Larry Penner
Great Neck, N.Y.

To the Editor:
 You did not mention the two most important areas of responsibility of any governor today: economic development and education. 
 When George E. Pataki's lack of accomplishment in matters of economic development and education is factored in, his administration can be seen as nothing other than a complete and utter failure. 

Paul T. Shoemaker
Bronxville

To the Editor:
 I question your characterization of Gov. George E. Pataki's choices to lead the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation (or what many call the ''Leave Manhattan Destroyed Committee'') as ''excellent,'' and your description of their preferred plans as ''first-rate.''
 The official planning process for the World Trade Center site was an outrage and disgrace from the start, designed to ensure that plans that responded in the only appropriate manner -- rebuilding on the scale and in the spirit of what was destroyed -- were never even considered.
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer could get off to a great start by consigning the Daniel Libeskind plan and the misguided priorities that produced it to the trash bin.

Louis Epstein
Carmel, N.Y.

The writer is the founder and director of the World Trade Center Restoration Movement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); HIJACKING (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); COUNTIES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (53%) Editorials; Editorials; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) George E (Gov) Pataki; Larry Penner; Paul T Shoemaker; Louis Epstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



135 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Correction; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 106 words

 BODY:
A chart with an article last Sunday about the changing demographics of the suburbs contained incorrect percentages for levels of education reported by the census in 2000 and 2005. In 2000, the proportion of the population over 25 with some college was 22.6 percent, not 28.1 percent. In 2005, the proportions in all groups were slightly higher than those reported: The proportion with less than a high school degree was 15.8 percent; the proportion with a high school degree was 27.7 percent; with some college, 23.7 percent; with a college degree, 19.3 percent; with a master's degree, 9.1 percent; with a professional degree, 4.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CENSUS (90%); CITIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Correction Stories; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Aged; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Suburbs; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



136 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; RELOCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Protest Flea Market's Move to Belmont Park

BYLINE: By LINDA F. BURGHARDT

DATELINE: FLORAL PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
JEANS, scarves, jewelry, perfumes, socks, toy trucks, cough medicine, handbags, pots and pans -- all these and more may become available this spring at an outdoor market at Belmont Park. Crowds of shoppers, rivaling those at the races, could be coming, too. 
 But not if residents, school personnel and municipal leaders in the neighboring Villages of Floral Park and Bellerose have their way. 
The open-air market, which would operate in the racetrack's northernmost parking lot on Tuesdays, Saturdays and Sundays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. from March to December, has been operating for the last nine years at Aqueduct Raceway in Queens. The New York Racing Association closed the market to make more room for parking and offered its operator a lease at Belmont Park.
 ''We don't object to the market itself, only the location, which would abut one of our elementary schools,'' said Lynn Pombonyo, the superintendent of the Floral Park-Bellerose school district. ''All there is between the school grounds and the proposed market is a chain-link fence. That looks far too risky to us.''
 Jenell Horan, the school PTA's co-president and parent of four children ranging in age from 7 to 12, agreed. ''It's a very bad setup for the safety of our kids,'' she said. ''Predators and pedophiles are a reality in our society, and they could have access to our kids through the fence.''
 Another parent at the school and a trustee of Bellerose Village, Rosaleen Shea, said: ''How do we know there won't be pornography and drug paraphernalia at the market? Or that our children wouldn't be lured away by offers of iPods or candy?'' 
 Nonsense, said Carol DeSanto, who has managed the Aqueduct flea market for nine years and was astonished at the idea that it could be perceived as a threat. 
 ''Our vendors are good, honest, working people, and we don't attract a rowdy crowd,'' she said. ''Not everyone can afford to shop at Nordstrom or Bloomingdale's, you know. There's a place for an off-price market in today's economy, a very important place.'' 
 Ms. DeSanto has applied for a special permit from the Town of Hempstead, which includes Bellerose and Floral Park, to locate the market at Belmont Park. Even though Floral Park is adjacent to the track, it has no jurisdiction over it, as Belmont Park sits outside the village in an unincorporated part of the town. Joseph Pellegrini, the secretary for the Town Board of Zoning Appeals, said a decision on the permit would be made by the end of January.
 Felice Rubin, who has lived in Floral Park for 25 years and reared two children there, said she would object to any activity that brought a number of people into the neighborhood, regardless of the reason. ''It wouldn't help the quality of life in the village,'' she said, ''and it would certainly raise concerns about our safety.'' 
 To help soothe concerned residents, Ms. DeSanto said she would be willing to reduce the number of vendors to 400 at Belmont Park from the 600 she had at Aqueduct. 
 Even with the reduction in vendors, said David Fowler, president of the Floral Park-Bellerose school board, noise from the 2,000 to 3,000 people he estimated would attend the market would disturb children in the classroom and at play outdoors. 
 Ms. DeSanto said the market would draw 8,000 to 10,000 shoppers on a busy day and 1,500 at a time. Belmont Park averaged 4,629 racing patrons a day last fall.
 The Floral Park mayor, Phil Guarnieri, said that the ball fields were used seven days a week for soccer, baseball and lacrosse. ''The market could bring in as many as 1,400 cars,'' he said. ''That's not good for the school or the children.''
 But Frank Formato, who lives in Elmont, which borders Belmont Park to the south, said he would welcome the market at a parking lot near him. ''I'd be happy to shop there,'' he said. ''Everybody likes a bargain.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: NEWER SITE -- Customers shop at the market at Aqueduct Raceway. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ZONING (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (65%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); JURISDICTION (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%) Flea Markets; Renting and Leasing; Belmont Park Race Track ; Aqueduct Race Track 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Racing Assn

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Carol DeSanto; Linda F Burghardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Floral Park (NY); Bellerose (NYC); Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



137 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; GENERATIONS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: A School Search Shaded by Painful Memories 

BYLINE: By BENILDE LITTLE. 
Benilde Little's most recent novel is ''Who Does She Think She Is?'' (Free Press), about three generations of black women.

 BODY:
SCHOOL choice, as any sane person knows, is a mixed blessing. Last spring, when it was time to choose a middle school for my daughter, Baldwin, I was not a sane person. For two months I talked to at least 15 people (and I don't mean five-minute chats) who had chosen one of three public and four private schools in or around Montclair, N.J. 
 The private school tours had begun in the fall. Images of the Pingry School in Martinsville, the Rolls-Royce of educational institutions, danced in our heads as my husband, Cliff, and I headed home from a meeting with the admissions director and alumni. The school was indeed impressive, but the travel time, a good hour each way, was just too much for an 11-year-old to handle every day. 
Then I spoke with the parents of students at Kent Place in Summit, a bucolic all-girls' school that Baldwin refused even to consider. (We plan to revisit that idea for high school.) Cliff had explored Newark Academy's 68-acre campus in Livingston a while ago, and I revisited it online, again weighing the pros of independent schools (smaller classes, more individualized attention and fabulous-looking facilities) and the cons (elitist attitudes of some children and more than $20,000 in tuition added to property taxes that are already enough for a private school education).
 By the time I looked at the nearby Montclair Kimberley Academy, where my children had loved their day-camp experiences, the public school tours had begun, and my private anxieties were marching to the fore. I would wake Cliff in the middle of the night with all kinds of scenarios, many of them products of being a black parent in suburbia. If we sent our daughter to public school, suppose the girls were mean, suppose she had to start choosing her friends based on race and not common interests, suppose some eighth-grade boy turned her head. The same things could happen in private school, of course, plus she would be around youngsters with so much money she could end up feeling as if she were underprivileged. Suppose she felt she had to choose to sit at the black table at lunchtime or, worse, what if she was a minority of one in some of the private-school classes and felt she must wave the race flag full time.
 Now I was getting to the guts of my insanity. I was tortured in the Newark public school I attended, which was practically all black; the misery began in sixth grade, and it was downhill from there. I was reliving my demons -- the taunts of ''Who do you think you are?,'' ''You think you cute?'' and my personal favorite, given the junior revolutionary that I was, ''You think you white?'' I worry that things are neither worse nor better, that they have probably, pathetically, stayed the same.
 Like most parents, I want the best for my children and would do anything to make that happen. I also realize that what works for one child doesn't work for another. (We have a 5-year-old son who would probably thrive in the kind of small, precious school that Baldwin dislikes.) But as a black parent I have an extra job. Not only do I have to help Baldwin navigate her class work, always to do her best and all that, but I've also got to teach her that when three black boys act out in class, it's not because they're black, that there is no excuse for anyone's bad behavior.
 I have to teach my girl and my little guy, who just started kindergarten, to be proud of their heritage. I have to encourage them to immerse themselves in black history, both in and out of the classroom, so they understand why some history books talk about enslaved people as if they were born that way -- without a culture and centuries-old traditions. I have to teach, as so many of my peers were taught, that no one is better than you and you aren't better than anyone. As my old pal, the director George C. Wolfe, said of his Kentucky childhood, ''This created some schizophrenia.'' 
 Montclair is a town that took pride in its diversity long before the word was part of our national lexicon. It is vibrant, the kind of place an urban dweller like me could live.
 There are three centers of town where one can enjoy moving around on foot -- my personal test for a good place to live. More important, it is a place where my family lives among many other families who look like us and even, occasionally, think like us.
 When searching for a suburban home, Cliff and I wouldn't even consider towns where there was little to no racial or ethnic mix. This decision was for our children. We never wanted them to be ''the only one.'' We know that children just want to be like everyone else, and if everyone else is brown, that's the cool thing to be; if everyone is all kinds of things then, well, you get the point. 
 Interestingly, Montclair Kimberley, one of the private schools we considered, has a sizable number of black students, and Baldwin already knew many of them. It would have been easy (not the check-writing part) to send her there and avoid our initial anxieties. Instead, we decided -- or, more accurately, my daughter decided -- on Glenfield Middle School, a public school that I initially wasn't even going to tour. It was not the one that is literally a short block away, where you can roll out of bed and still get there on time, and it was not the progressive school that I was leaning toward. After viewing all three public schools, Baldwin announced that she liked the nearby school O.K., but that it was ''pink -- and Glenfield is yellow.'' I asked her to speak English and not artistese. ''Well, I like pink, it's like my favorite color,'' she said, ''but yellow is vibrant and Glenfield is vibrant.'' 
 The diversity she has to deal with at Glenfield is real and true and crosses racial and economic lines. She has been challenged, educationally and emotionally, and so have I. The next few years are not going to be a cakewalk. But a rich life is made up of relationships that are complex, with people who are unlike you, people from whom you can learn and stretch and grow. And while I didn't think Glenfield was where we would end up, so far I'm glad we did. My daughter is beaming and excited about learning. I'm happy with what's coming home in the backpack.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); SCHOOL CHOICE (79%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%) Education and Schools; Blacks; Private and Sectarian Schools; Education and Schools; Blacks; Private and Sectarian Schools

PERSON: Benilde Little; Benilde Little

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Montclair (NJ); Montclair (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



138 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: The Wedding Economy

BYLINE: By M. V. Lee Badgett. 
M. V. Lee Badgett, an economist, is the research director of the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles, which deals with sexual orientation law and public policy.

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
THE New Jersey Legislature has sent a message to gay and lesbian couples: Let civil union bells ring. Same-sex couples hoping to marry were not the only ones disappointed at that jarring sound; businesses too have been left at the altar. 
 From an economic perspective, opening up full-fledged marriage to same-sex couples makes sense. More marriages mean more weddings, and weddings are a big business. According to industry reports, the typical New Jersey wedding costs more than $35,000. Even if gay couples spend only a fraction of that average, the huge pent-up demand from couples in the state and across the country adds up to a lot of money. Florists, caterers, hotels, photographers and restaurants would share in a marriage windfall that could easily top $300 million over the first few years of marriage equality for same-sex couples. 
Marriage rights for gay couples would also generate other economic benefits for New Jersey businesses. Recent research shows that equal treatment improves gay, lesbian and bisexual employees' mental health and happiness in the workplace, which means greater job satisfaction and lower turnover. 
 While it's hard to put a specific dollar value on those benefits, companies know that good health and low turnover save them money. The fact that more than half of Fortune 500 companies have already implemented domestic partner benefits on their own suggests that equality pays off. 
 Becoming the second state after Massachusetts to let gay couples marry would also raise New Jersey's profile among gays and lesbians looking for welcoming places to relocate and work, and for companies seeking a tolerant and open climate. And the state's businesses might get a bonus since recent data suggest that many heterosexuals also want to work in places that treat gay and lesbian people equally. 
 New Jersey's economy would get these work-force advantages at virtually no cost to the state's businesses. Even though equality means allowing new spouses of gay and lesbian employees to claim costly health care benefits, the roughly 2,500 newlyweds whose spouses have employer coverage would be easily absorbed by the more than 100,000 employers in New Jersey. Only the largest companies are likely to see a noticeable but small impact on health care enrollment, and the vast majority of employers will have no new spouses to cover. 
 Just one question remains: Are civil unions equal enough to marriage to generate these economic gains? 
 If civil unions are truly generic marriage without the label, New Jersey might still experience a wedding windfall. Vermont's introduction of civil unions in 2000 lured thousands of same-sex couples from across the country and created a cottage industry for celebrations. 
 But New Jersey is too late to reap the same business benefit seven years later, and new competition from Connecticut and California have reduced the out-of-state demand for legal recognition that stops short of marriage. Travel in search of marriage-like relationships has clearly dried up -- only 2 percent of California's registered domestic partners come from other states. Marriage alone remains the big draw as demonstrated by the gay couples from 46 states who flocked to San Francisco in the one month they could marry there in 2005. (Macy's reportedly ran out of wedding rings.) 
 Some of New Jersey's own gay and lesbian couples also appear less than enthusiastic about civil unions. Raised hopes have made civil unions a distant second best for same-sex couples who would prefer to marry. In fact, some gay couples in Connecticut are boycotting civil unions -- only 15 percent of the state's same-sex couples entered civil unions in the first year that status was available. So don't count on being invited to a big fancy civil union ceremony; many same-sex couples will hold out for the real thing.
 The good news for New Jersey's economy is that civil unions are rare enough that businesses will probably still gain in less direct ways, even if the luster of equal rights is a bit tarnished. The prospect of equal benefits for employees in civil unions will make New Jersey look good as a place to live and work for gay men and lesbians. 
 Of course, cashing in on equality might not be the top motive for policymakers concerned about the treatment of same-sex couples. But the economic angle reveals at least two important lessons for lawmakers about the right to marry. 
 First, equality will benefit a much wider sector than just same-sex couples, namely the state's business owners and workers. And second, the market makes a good equality detector. It remains to be seen whether same-sex couples vote against civil unions with their feet and save their wedding dollars for the real thing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (96%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COHABITATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); CATERING SERVICES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (67%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: M V Lee Badgett

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



139 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: How to End Long Island's Sour Vintages

BYLINE: By Lisa Granik. 
Lisa Granik is a Master of Wine. She wrote her dissertation on the Long Island wine industry.

 BODY:
THE decision by the Leucadia Corporation to forgo planting vines on the two Long Island vineyards it purchased in 2005 is only the latest news to give pause to supporters of Long Island wine. 
 As the first corporate investor on Long Island with well-regarded properties in California and Oregon, Leucadia's purchase was seen as an endorsement of the region's winegrowing potential. Now its decision to give up on the purchased vines comes just as two other North Fork wineries -- Lieb Vineyards and Sherwood House -- put themselves on the market. Let's face it: the fact that nearly 25 percent of North Fork wineries are for sale suggests that all is not healthy for Long Island wine.
Despite the public relations image of happy daytrippers frequenting busy local wineries, a close examination of the industry and its winegrowing environment suggests a more troubled picture. What's wrong? 
 Winegrowing, notwithstanding all the romance, is at root an agricultural and economic enterprise, and conditions for both must be right. Unfortunately, experience thus far shows that the agricultural environment prevents the region from being economically successful, and the economic environment is becoming increasingly treacherous.
 Long Island's small land mass limits the amount of wine that can be produced. The region's temperate climate produces a style of wine that is middle-weight and crisp, not the smooth, rich style of reds and whites currently commanding critical and consumer acclaim -- and high prices. 
 In addition, the year-to-year vagaries of the climate prevent the region from producing top quality wines every vintage. And these variations alienate consumers who are used to the consistent style they can get from an Australian or Californian merlot or chardonnay.
 Initially, the variation between vintages was put forward as an advantage by local vintners, who touted the region as ''America's Bordeaux.'' This comparison, however, has led producers down a perilous path. Yes, Bordeaux wines taste quite different year to year. But with the exception of the top chateaus, the Bordeaux market is now in crisis, with producers unable to recoup their costs and invest in their properties to improve their wines -- a dubious business model for any winegrowing region. 
 Additionally, it is not at all clear that the major Bordeaux grape varieties -- cabernet sauvignon, cabernet franc and merlot -- are well suited to Long Island's growing conditions. Indeed, even in the broad expanse of Bordeaux -- almost 300,000 acres of vines compared with roughly 3,000 on Long Island -- few properties consistently produce extraordinary wine. Long Island producers have nonetheless seized on merlot as ''their'' variety because, after the initial comparison to Bordeaux, merlot has produced a more consistent crop than the other varieties.
 But being better than the few varieties that have been tried doesn't equal being best. Too few wineries are experimenting with varieties and blends beyond the sauvignon blancs, chardonnays and merlots already well represented in a crowded marketplace. And even when the vintage yields ripe fruit -- never a guarantee on Long Island -- too many wines still reflect poor winemaking choices, often to mimic popular styles that will never be Long Island's legacy. 
 The Bordeaux comparison also illustrates local producers' lack of understanding as to why people buy expensive wines: either history has given a region a venerable, pedigreed, romantic reputation, or critical accolades have vaulted the wine into cult status. Some regions have garnered attention when one spare-no-expense, no-compromise producer -- such as Biondi Santi in Italy's Brunello di Montalcino region or Vega Sicilia in Spain's Ribera del Duero -- produces extraordinary wines, and not just in one vintage but consistently year after year. 
 Long Island has neither history nor, thus far, a quality-at-all-costs producer to arrest the consumer's attention and inspire the neighbors. Long Island is a lovely place to live, work and play, but its wines have nothing to justify prices beyond those for everyday wines.
 It is unfortunate that so many elements of Long Island's ''terroir'' -- embodied in such vineyard immutables as soil type and climate -- conspire against profitability and quality. While advances in winegrowing and winemaking may improve wine quality, the small family producer will continually be squeezed as escalating land values ensure that the opportunities for any newcomer will diminish. 
 Still, for those whose true goal is developing a world-class winegrowing region, a number of avenues remain:
 Break out of the Bordeaux box. Vintners should recognize that the real competition is not the pedigreed wines of Bordeaux but the less exalted European wines that show character and complexity for well under $20. Competitive pricing, with the classic sales technique of ''under-promise and over-deliver'' is more likely to develop consumer loyalty in this fast-growing market segment.
 Embrace what nature offers. In the best examples, Long Island wines have a distinctive aromatic profile and delicate fruitiness. Winemakers need to exploit the fresh fruit flavors and mouthwatering acidity these wines have naturally, not obscure them with long aging in oak or poor winemaking. Pure, balanced wines, when priced fairly, will improve the reputation of Long Island wines. 
 Evaluate new, more appropriate grape varieties. While this is inevitably a very long-term and expensive process, producers could share costs by supporting the Cornell Cooperative Extension's agricultural efforts in Suffolk County. All major winegrowing regions have a regional university or enological institute seeking to enhance wine quality. Cornell's service is woefully underfinanced; a self-imposed tax in the industry would augment its research capacity.
 Also, unless the producers are content to be a weekend playground, a more sustained presence in New York City is imperative; it's the only way for the producers to understand their competition and to raise awareness among both consumers and the trade. A first step would be to move the offices of the Long Island Wine Council, now in Suffolk County, to Manhattan. Heavily promoted annual vintage tastings are also needed, to compete with well-financed efforts in new growing regions in Chile, Italy and other winegrowing nations. 
 Without a new focus on wine quality, the East End will be overrun not just by the developers, but also by the competition. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Jan. 7, about Long Island wines, should have mentioned that the writer, Lisa Granik, works for a wine wholesaler that distributes wines from Long Island and other regions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); WINERIES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

PERSON: Lisa Granik

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



140 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; GENERATIONS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: A School Search Shaded by Painful Memories 

BYLINE: By BENILDE LITTLE. 
Benilde Little's most recent novel is ''Who Does She Think She Is?'' (Free Press), about three generations of black women.

 BODY:
SCHOOL choice, as any sane person knows, is a mixed blessing. Last spring, when it was time to choose a middle school for my daughter, Baldwin, I was not a sane person. For two months I talked to at least 15 people (and I don't mean five-minute chats) who had chosen one of three public and four private schools in or around Montclair, N.J. 
 The private school tours had begun in the fall. Images of the Pingry School in Martinsville, the Rolls-Royce of educational institutions, danced in our heads as my husband, Cliff, and I headed home from a meeting with the admissions director and alumni. The school was indeed impressive, but the travel time, a good hour each way, was just too much for an 11-year-old to handle every day. 
Then I spoke with the parents of students at Kent Place in Summit, a bucolic all-girls' school that Baldwin refused even to consider. (We plan to revisit that idea for high school.) Cliff had explored Newark Academy's 68-acre campus in Livingston a while ago, and I revisited it online, again weighing the pros of independent schools (smaller classes, more individualized attention and fabulous-looking facilities) and the cons (elitist attitudes of some children and more than $20,000 in tuition added to property taxes that are already enough for a private school education).
 By the time I looked at the nearby Montclair Kimberley Academy, where my children had loved their day-camp experiences, the public school tours had begun, and my private anxieties were marching to the fore. I would wake Cliff in the middle of the night with all kinds of scenarios, many of them products of being a black parent in suburbia. If we sent our daughter to public school, suppose the girls were mean, suppose she had to start choosing her friends based on race and not common interests, suppose some eighth-grade boy turned her head. The same things could happen in private school, of course, plus she would be around youngsters with so much money she could end up feeling as if she were underprivileged. Suppose she felt she had to choose to sit at the black table at lunchtime or, worse, what if she was a minority of one in some of the private-school classes and felt she must wave the race flag full time.
 Now I was getting to the guts of my insanity. I was tortured in the Newark public school I attended, which was practically all black; the misery began in sixth grade, and it was downhill from there. I was reliving my demons -- the taunts of ''Who do you think you are?,'' ''You think you cute?'' and my personal favorite, given the junior revolutionary that I was, ''You think you white?'' I worry that things are neither worse nor better, that they have probably, pathetically, stayed the same.
 Like most parents, I want the best for my children and would do anything to make that happen. I also realize that what works for one child doesn't work for another. (We have a 5-year-old son who would probably thrive in the kind of small, precious school that Baldwin dislikes.) But as a black parent I have an extra job. Not only do I have to help Baldwin navigate her class work, always to do her best and all that, but I've also got to teach her that when three black boys act out in class, it's not because they're black, that there is no excuse for anyone's bad behavior.
 I have to teach my girl and my little guy, who just started kindergarten, to be proud of their heritage. I have to encourage them to immerse themselves in black history, both in and out of the classroom, so they understand why some history books talk about enslaved people as if they were born that way -- without a culture and centuries-old traditions. I have to teach, as so many of my peers were taught, that no one is better than you and you aren't better than anyone. As my old pal, the director George C. Wolfe, said of his Kentucky childhood, ''This created some schizophrenia.'' 
 Montclair is a town that took pride in its diversity long before the word was part of our national lexicon. It is vibrant, the kind of place an urban dweller like me could live.
 There are three centers of town where one can enjoy moving around on foot -- my personal test for a good place to live. More important, it is a place where my family lives among many other families who look like us and even, occasionally, think like us.
 When searching for a suburban home, Cliff and I wouldn't even consider towns where there was little to no racial or ethnic mix. This decision was for our children. We never wanted them to be ''the only one.'' We know that children just want to be like everyone else, and if everyone else is brown, that's the cool thing to be; if everyone is all kinds of things then, well, you get the point. 
 Interestingly, Montclair Kimberley, one of the private schools we considered, has a sizable number of black students, and Baldwin already knew many of them. It would have been easy (not the check-writing part) to send her there and avoid our initial anxieties. Instead, we decided -- or, more accurately, my daughter decided -- on Glenfield Middle School, a public school that I initially wasn't even going to tour. It was not the one that is literally a short block away, where you can roll out of bed and still get there on time, and it was not the progressive school that I was leaning toward. After viewing all three public schools, Baldwin announced that she liked the nearby school O.K., but that it was ''pink -- and Glenfield is yellow.'' I asked her to speak English and not artistese. ''Well, I like pink, it's like my favorite color,'' she said, ''but yellow is vibrant and Glenfield is vibrant.'' 
 The diversity she has to deal with at Glenfield is real and true and crosses racial and economic lines. She has been challenged, educationally and emotionally, and so have I. The next few years are not going to be a cakewalk. But a rich life is made up of relationships that are complex, with people who are unlike you, people from whom you can learn and stretch and grow. And while I didn't think Glenfield was where we would end up, so far I'm glad we did. My daughter is beaming and excited about learning. I'm happy with what's coming home in the backpack.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); SCHOOL CHOICE (79%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%) Education and Schools; Blacks; Private and Sectarian Schools

PERSON: Benilde Little

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Montclair (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



141 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; GENERATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: A School Search Shaded by Painful Memories 

BYLINE: By BENILDE LITTLE. 
Benilde Little's most recent novel is ''Who Does She Think She Is?'' (Free Press), about three generations of black women.

 BODY:
SCHOOL choice, as any sane person knows, is a mixed blessing. Last spring, when it was time to choose a middle school for my daughter, Baldwin, I was not a sane person. For two months I talked to at least 15 people (and I don't mean five-minute chats) who had chosen one of three public and four private schools in or around Montclair, N.J. 
 The private school tours had begun in the fall. Images of the Pingry School in Martinsville, the Rolls-Royce of educational institutions, danced in our heads as my husband, Cliff, and I headed home from a meeting with the admissions director and alumni. The school was indeed impressive, but the travel time, a good hour each way, was just too much for an 11-year-old to handle every day. 
Then I spoke with the parents of students at Kent Place in Summit, a bucolic all-girls' school that Baldwin refused even to consider. (We plan to revisit that idea for high school.) Cliff had explored Newark Academy's 68-acre campus in Livingston a while ago, and I revisited it online, again weighing the pros of independent schools (smaller classes, more individualized attention and fabulous-looking facilities) and the cons (elitist attitudes of some children and more than $20,000 in tuition added to property taxes that are already enough for a private school education).
 By the time I looked at the nearby Montclair Kimberley Academy, where my children had loved their day-camp experiences, the public school tours had begun, and my private anxieties were marching to the fore. I would wake Cliff in the middle of the night with all kinds of scenarios, many of them products of being a black parent in suburbia. If we sent our daughter to public school, suppose the girls were mean, suppose she had to start choosing her friends based on race and not common interests, suppose some eighth-grade boy turned her head. The same things could happen in private school, of course, plus she would be around youngsters with so much money she could end up feeling as if she were underprivileged. Suppose she felt she had to choose to sit at the black table at lunchtime or, worse, what if she was a minority of one in some of the private-school classes and felt she must wave the race flag full time.
 Now I was getting to the guts of my insanity. I was tortured in the Newark public school I attended, which was practically all black; the misery began in sixth grade, and it was downhill from there. I was reliving my demons -- the taunts of ''Who do you think you are?,'' ''You think you cute?'' and my personal favorite, given the junior revolutionary that I was, ''You think you white?'' I worry that things are neither worse nor better, that they have probably, pathetically, stayed the same.
 Like most parents, I want the best for my children and would do anything to make that happen. I also realize that what works for one child doesn't work for another. (We have a 5-year-old son who would probably thrive in the kind of small, precious school that Baldwin dislikes.) But as a black parent I have an extra job. Not only do I have to help Baldwin navigate her class work, always to do her best and all that, but I've also got to teach her that when three black boys act out in class, it's not because they're black, that there is no excuse for anyone's bad behavior.
 I have to teach my girl and my little guy, who just started kindergarten, to be proud of their heritage. I have to encourage them to immerse themselves in black history, both in and out of the classroom, so they understand why some history books talk about enslaved people as if they were born that way -- without a culture and centuries-old traditions. I have to teach, as so many of my peers were taught, that no one is better than you and you aren't better than anyone. As my old pal, the director George C. Wolfe, said of his Kentucky childhood, ''This created some schizophrenia.'' 
 Montclair is a town that took pride in its diversity long before the word was part of our national lexicon. It is vibrant, the kind of place an urban dweller like me could live.
 There are three centers of town where one can enjoy moving around on foot -- my personal test for a good place to live. More important, it is a place where my family lives among many other families who look like us and even, occasionally, think like us.
 When searching for a suburban home, Cliff and I wouldn't even consider towns where there was little to no racial or ethnic mix. This decision was for our children. We never wanted them to be ''the only one.'' We know that children just want to be like everyone else, and if everyone else is brown, that's the cool thing to be; if everyone is all kinds of things then, well, you get the point. 
 Interestingly, Montclair Kimberley, one of the private schools we considered, has a sizable number of black students, and Baldwin already knew many of them. It would have been easy (not the check-writing part) to send her there and avoid our initial anxieties. Instead, we decided -- or, more accurately, my daughter decided -- on Glenfield Middle School, a public school that I initially wasn't even going to tour. It was not the one that is literally a short block away, where you can roll out of bed and still get there on time, and it was not the progressive school that I was leaning toward. After viewing all three public schools, Baldwin announced that she liked the nearby school O.K., but that it was ''pink -- and Glenfield is yellow.'' I asked her to speak English and not artistese. ''Well, I like pink, it's like my favorite color,'' she said, ''but yellow is vibrant and Glenfield is vibrant.'' 
 The diversity she has to deal with at Glenfield is real and true and crosses racial and economic lines. She has been challenged, educationally and emotionally, and so have I. The next few years are not going to be a cakewalk. But a rich life is made up of relationships that are complex, with people who are unlike you, people from whom you can learn and stretch and grow. And while I didn't think Glenfield was where we would end up, so far I'm glad we did. My daughter is beaming and excited about learning. I'm happy with what's coming home in the backpack.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); SCHOOL CHOICE (79%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%) Education and Schools; Blacks; Private and Sectarian Schools

PERSON: Benilde Little

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Montclair (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



142 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of Connecticut

Ellington Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Ellington Town Hall, 55 Main Street. (860) 870-3100.

Hartford State Implementation Plan Revision Advisory Committee. Thursday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3027.

Hartford Connecticut Siting Council public hearing. Tuesday at 10 a.m. State Capitol, Old Judiciary Room, 210 Capitol Avenue. (860) 827-2935.

Rocky Hill Tourism Committee. Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. Board Room, 999 West Street. (860) 270-8076.

Fairfield County

Bethel Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.

Brookfield Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Brookfield Town Hall, 100 Pocono Road. (203) 775-7300.

Brookfield Parks and Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Brookfield Town Hall, 100 Pocono Road. (203) 775-7300.

Danbury Environmental Impact Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

Fairfield Shellfish Committee. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Sullivan Independence Hall, 725 Old Post Road. (203) 266-3008.

Monroe Town Council. Monday at 8 p.m. Monroe Town Hall, 7 Fan Hill Road. (203) 452-5417.

New Canaan Zoning Board of Appeals. Monday at 7 p.m. New Canaan Town Hall, 77 Main Street. (203) 972-2323.

Newtown Conservation Commission. Tuesday at 6 p.m. Newtown Town Hall South, 3 Main Street. (203) 426-6470.

Redding Planning Commission. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002.

Ridgefield Architectural Advisory Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Ridgefield Town Hall, 400 Main Street. (203) 431-2700.

Ridgefield Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Ridgefield Town Hall, 400 Main Street. (203) 431-2700.

Weston Parks and Recreations Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Weston Town Hall, 56 Norfield Road. (203) 222-2656.

Hartford County

Avon Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Avon Town Hall, 60 West Main Street. (860) 409-4300.

Avon Water Pollution Control Authority. Thursday at 5 p.m. Avon Town Hall, 60 West Main Street. (860) 409-4300.

Simsbury Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 7:30 a.m. Simsbury City Hall, 933 Hopmeadow Street. (860) 658-3200.

Litchfield County

Barkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285.

Colebrook Planning and Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Colebrook Town Hall, Colebrook Center. (860) 379-3359.

Cornwall Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Cornwall Town Hall, 26 Pine Street. (860) 672-2709.

Falls Village Board of Finance. Monday at 6:30 p.m. Canaan Town Hall, 108 Main Street. (860) 824-0707.

Plymouth Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001.

Woodbury Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144.

Middlesex County

Essex Inland Wetlands and Watercourse Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340.

Essex Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340.

Portland Long Range Capital Improvement Commission. Wednesday at 6 p.m. Portland Town Hall, 33 East Main Street. (860) 342-6715.

New Haven County

Madison Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7 p.m. Madison Town Campus, 8 Campus Drive. (203) 245-5672.

Wallingford Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Wallingford City Hall, 45 South Main Street. (203) 294-2145.

New London County

Lebanon Board of Finance. Thursday at 8 p.m. Lebanon Town Hall, 579 Exeter Road. (860) 642-7319.

Montville Town Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311.

Tolland County

Ellington Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Ellington Town Hall, 55 Main Street. (860) 870-3100.

Tolland Board of Education. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600.

Windham County

Ashford Parks and Recreation Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Ashford Town Office Building, 5 Town Hall Road. (860) 487-4401.

Thompson Town Meeting. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Thompson Public Library Community Center, 934 Riverside Drive. (860) 923-9900.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ZONING (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (70%); WATER POLLUTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



143 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; GENERATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: A School Search Shaded by Painful Memories 

BYLINE: By BENILDE LITTLE. 
Benilde Little's most recent novel is ''Who Does She Think She Is?'' (Free Press), about three generations of black women.

 BODY:
SCHOOL choice, as any sane person knows, is a mixed blessing. Last spring, when it was time to choose a middle school for my daughter, Baldwin, I was not a sane person. For two months I talked to at least 15 people (and I don't mean five-minute chats) who had chosen one of three public and four private schools in or around Montclair, N.J. 
 The private school tours had begun in the fall. Images of the Pingry School in Martinsville, the Rolls-Royce of educational institutions, danced in our heads as my husband, Cliff, and I headed home from a meeting with the admissions director and alumni. The school was indeed impressive, but the travel time, a good hour each way, was just too much for an 11-year-old to handle every day. 
Then I spoke with the parents of students at Kent Place in Summit, a bucolic all-girls' school that Baldwin refused even to consider. (We plan to revisit that idea for high school.) Cliff had explored Newark Academy's 68-acre campus in Livingston a while ago, and I revisited it online, again weighing the pros of independent schools (smaller classes, more individualized attention and fabulous-looking facilities) and the cons (elitist attitudes of some children and more than $20,000 in tuition added to property taxes that are already enough for a private school education).
 By the time I looked at the nearby Montclair Kimberley Academy, where my children had loved their day-camp experiences, the public school tours had begun, and my private anxieties were marching to the fore. I would wake Cliff in the middle of the night with all kinds of scenarios, many of them products of being a black parent in suburbia. If we sent our daughter to public school, suppose the girls were mean, suppose she had to start choosing her friends based on race and not common interests, suppose some eighth-grade boy turned her head. The same things could happen in private school, of course, plus she would be around youngsters with so much money she could end up feeling as if she were underprivileged. Suppose she felt she had to choose to sit at the black table at lunchtime or, worse, what if she was a minority of one in some of the private-school classes and felt she must wave the race flag full time.
 Now I was getting to the guts of my insanity. I was tortured in the Newark public school I attended, which was practically all black; the misery began in sixth grade, and it was downhill from there. I was reliving my demons -- the taunts of ''Who do you think you are?,'' ''You think you cute?'' and my personal favorite, given the junior revolutionary that I was, ''You think you white?'' I worry that things are neither worse nor better, that they have probably, pathetically, stayed the same.
 Like most parents, I want the best for my children and would do anything to make that happen. I also realize that what works for one child doesn't work for another. (We have a 5-year-old son who would probably thrive in the kind of small, precious school that Baldwin dislikes.) But as a black parent I have an extra job. Not only do I have to help Baldwin navigate her class work, always to do her best and all that, but I've also got to teach her that when three black boys act out in class, it's not because they're black, that there is no excuse for anyone's bad behavior.
 I have to teach my girl and my little guy, who just started kindergarten, to be proud of their heritage. I have to encourage them to immerse themselves in black history, both in and out of the classroom, so they understand why some history books talk about enslaved people as if they were born that way -- without a culture and centuries-old traditions. I have to teach, as so many of my peers were taught, that no one is better than you and you aren't better than anyone. As my old pal, the director George C. Wolfe, said of his Kentucky childhood, ''This created some schizophrenia.'' 
 Montclair is a town that took pride in its diversity long before the word was part of our national lexicon. It is vibrant, the kind of place an urban dweller like me could live.
 There are three centers of town where one can enjoy moving around on foot -- my personal test for a good place to live. More important, it is a place where my family lives among many other families who look like us and even, occasionally, think like us.
 When searching for a suburban home, Cliff and I wouldn't even consider towns where there was little to no racial or ethnic mix. This decision was for our children. We never wanted them to be ''the only one.'' We know that children just want to be like everyone else, and if everyone else is brown, that's the cool thing to be; if everyone is all kinds of things then, well, you get the point. 
 Interestingly, Montclair Kimberley, one of the private schools we considered, has a sizable number of black students, and Baldwin already knew many of them. It would have been easy (not the check-writing part) to send her there and avoid our initial anxieties. Instead, we decided -- or, more accurately, my daughter decided -- on Glenfield Middle School, a public school that I initially wasn't even going to tour. It was not the one that is literally a short block away, where you can roll out of bed and still get there on time, and it was not the progressive school that I was leaning toward. After viewing all three public schools, Baldwin announced that she liked the nearby school O.K., but that it was ''pink -- and Glenfield is yellow.'' I asked her to speak English and not artistese. ''Well, I like pink, it's like my favorite color,'' she said, ''but yellow is vibrant and Glenfield is vibrant.'' 
 The diversity she has to deal with at Glenfield is real and true and crosses racial and economic lines. She has been challenged, educationally and emotionally, and so have I. The next few years are not going to be a cakewalk. But a rich life is made up of relationships that are complex, with people who are unlike you, people from whom you can learn and stretch and grow. And while I didn't think Glenfield was where we would end up, so far I'm glad we did. My daughter is beaming and excited about learning. I'm happy with what's coming home in the backpack.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); SCHOOL CHOICE (79%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%) Education and Schools; Blacks; Private and Sectarian Schools

PERSON: Benilde Little

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Montclair (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



144 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: The Preteen: Betwixt And Bedeviled

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
THE debate over how to educate young adolescents is about as stubborn and mercurial as a 13-year-old.
 First, educators created junior high schools, believing preteens needed to be treated like adults. But those students weren't ready to be treated as high school students, either. So reformers created the concept of middle schools, which were supposed to be a warm bath to ease the transition. Now, an increasing number of schools across the country, including in Baltimore and Philadelphia, are shifting the middle grades back to elementary school.
But some research suggests that may not be the solution, either. So the age-old issues persist, with some variation from decade to decade: surging hormones make students irritable and sleepy. They struggle to relate to their peers and gain independence from their parents. To hear some parents tell it, one day their babies are innocent elementary schoolers in overalls, the next they're dressing like Paris Hilton and simulating sex on the middle-school dance floor. How do you solve a problem like adolescence? Is there anything schools can do? 
 The move toward middle schools, after the push for junior high that started in the late 19th century, was supposed to create environments that were more serious than the story-hour life of elementary schools, though less impersonal and confidence-zapping than the controlled chaos of high schools. 
 While middle schools still have their defenders, they have fallen out of favor after various studies showed that they actually sapped self-esteem and fostered bullying. And academically, performance on standardized tests plummeted from fourth to eighth grades. 
 Some argue the problem is adolescence itself. But Jaana Juvonen, a psychologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, and an author of a 2004 Rand Corporation report largely critical of middle schools, said that claim ignores international evidence. Canadian students, for example, outperform their counterparts in the United States, and report liking school better. ''If it were truly biological,'' she said, ''we would see similar kinds of behavior happening across similar cultures.''
 Returning middle grades to K-8 schools, she believes, would address some behavioral problems. Because some girls look like women at 13, ''we assume that they are more cognitively and socially mature, but we may be misled,'' she said. The earlier these students are put among older students, she added, ''the earlier they start doing various kinds of risky behavior.''
 Leon Botstein, president of Bard College and a longtime proponent of restructuring high schools, criticizes middle schools as ''babysitting masked as learning.'' 
 ''The curriculum has been so dumbed down, there's no alternative to the allure of pop culture,'' he said. ''The bumping and grinding on the dance floor is not a reflection of moral degradation; it's because there's a vacuum.''
 The same problems don't exist, he said, among students who take a deep interest in extracurricular activities like chess or music. Mr. Botstein, who has long argued to abolish the last two years of high school, would reorganize schools into two segments: kindergarten through sixth grade, and 7th through 10th grades. But even those who argue for changing grade structures warn that it may not be the complete answer. In a study of the Philadelphia schools, which have a mix of middle and K-8 schools, academic achievement remained consistent between the two models, said Christopher Weiss, a sociologist at Columbia and an author of a paper comparing them.
 ''No one has ever really been happy with the kind of schooling dedicated to ages 12-15,'' Mr. Weiss said, ''We're in this constant churning. In 20 years we could be having the same conversation about the return of the middle school.''
 Rather than moving students between buildings or reconfiguring grades, he said, it might make more sense to spend money to hire more guidance counselors, or to consider curriculum changes. 
 Ms. Juvonen argues that ''looping,'' where the same teacher follows the same group of students through several grades, could help provide extra support. And research shows that volunteering may work: children who used to being helped take pride in becoming the helpers.
 Proponents of middle schools also argue that too much focus has been on the organization of schools. 
 ''Historically, there's been this notion that middle-school advocates were advocating for a more personalized environment, and that's it,'' said Anthony Jackson, a co-author of ''Turning Points,'' a 1989 Carnegie Corporation report considered the most vigorous defense of the middle school. ''That's never been the case.'' 
 In a follow-up report in 2000, the authors emphasized the need for more academic rigor, including higher standards and more teacher training.
 ''People heard the message about a more personal environment, but they didn't hear the part about why we're doing it, which is that we need to be able to instruct kids better,'' he said. ''You can move people into different boxes pretty easily, but the real changes are much harder.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Teen Angst -- The debate over the education of young adolescents has always been with us. Here, a class of eighth graders in 1946, in Montpelier, Vt. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); CURRICULA (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (68%); WRITERS (65%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (63%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Education and Schools

COMPANY: RAND CORP (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (52%) Kate Zernike

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



145 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 3827 words

HEADLINE: Little Asia On the Hill

BYLINE: By Timothy Egan. 
Timothy Egan reports for The Times from the West Coast. He won a 2006 National Book Award for ''The Worst Hard Time: The Untold Story of Those Who Survived the Great American Dust Bowl.''

 BODY:
WHEN Jonathan Hu was going to high school in suburban Southern California, he rarely heard anyone speaking Chinese. But striding through campus on his way to class at the University of California, Berkeley, Mr. Hu hears Mandarin all the time, in plazas, cafeterias, classrooms, study halls, dorms and fast-food outlets. It is part of the soundtrack at this iconic university, along with Cantonese, English, Spanish and, of course, the perpetual jackhammers from the perpetual construction projects spurred by the perpetual fund drives. 
 ''Here, many people speak Chinese as their primary language,'' says Mr. Hu, a sophomore. ''It's nice. You really feel like you don't stand out.''
Today, he is iPod-free, a rare condition on campus, taking in the early winter sun at the dour concrete plaza of the Free Speech Movement Cafe, named for the protests led by Mario Savio in 1964, when the administration tried to muzzle political activity. ''Free speech marks us off from the stones and stars,'' reads a Savio quote on the cafe wall, ''just below the angels.'' 
 There are now mostly small protests, against the new chain stores invading Telegraph Avenue, just outside the campus entrance, and to save the old oak trees scheduled for removal so the football stadium can be renovated. The biggest buzz on Telegraph one week was the grand opening of a chain restaurant -- the new Chipotle's, which drew a crowd of students eager to get in. The scent of patchouli oil and reefer is long gone; the street is posted as a drug-free zone. 
 And at least on this morning, there is very little speech of any kind inside the Free Speech Cafe; almost without exception, students are face-planted in their laptops, silently downloading class notes, music, messages. It could be the library but for the line for lattes. On mornings like this, the public university beneath the towering campanile seems like a small, industrious city of uber-students in flops.
 I ask Mr. Hu what it's like to be on a campus that is overwhelmingly Asian -- what it's like to be of the demographic moment. This fall and last, the number of Asian freshmen at Berkeley has been at a record high, about 46 percent. The overall undergraduate population is 41 percent Asian. On this golden campus, where a creek runs through a redwood grove, there are residence halls with Asian themes; good dim sum is never more than a five-minute walk away; heaping, spicy bowls of pho are served up in the Bear's Lair cafeteria; and numerous social clubs are linked by common ancestry to countries far across the Pacific.
 Mr. Hu shrugs, saying there is a fair amount of ''selective self-racial segregation,'' which is not unusual at a university this size: about 24,000 undergraduates. ''The different ethnic groups don't really interact that much,'' he says. ''There's definitely a sense of sticking with your community.'' But, he quickly adds, ''People of my generation don't look at race as that big of a deal. People here, the freshmen and sophomores, they're pretty much like your average American teenagers.''
 Spend a few days at Berkeley, on the classically manicured slope overlooking San Francisco Bay and the distant Pacific, and soon enough the sound of foreign languages becomes less distinct. This is a global campus in a global age. And more than any time in its history, it looks toward the setting sun for its identity. 
 The revolution at Berkeley is a quiet one, a slow turning of the forces of immigration and demographics. What is troubling to some is that the big public school on the hill certainly does not look like the ethnic face of California, which is 12 percent Asian, more than twice the national average. But it is the new face of the state's vaunted public university system. Asians make up the largest single ethnic group, 37 percent, at its nine undergraduate campuses. 
 The oft-cited goal of a public university is to be a microcosm -- in this case, of the nation's most populous, most demographically dynamic state -- and to enrich the educational experience with a variety of cultures, economic backgrounds and viewpoints. 
 But 10 years after California passed Proposition 209, voting to eliminate racial preferences in the public sector, university administrators find such balance harder to attain. At the same time, affirmative action is being challenged on a number of new fronts, in court and at state ballot boxes. And elite colleges have recently come under attack for practicing it -- specifically, for bypassing highly credentialed Asian applicants in favor of students of color with less stellar test scores and grades. 
 In California, the rise of the Asian campus, of the strict meritocracy, has come at the expense of historically underrepresented blacks and Hispanics. This year, in a class of 4809, there are only 100 black freshmen at the University of California at Los Angeles -- the lowest number in 33 years. At Berkeley, 3.6 percent of freshmen are black, barely half the statewide proportion. (In 1997, just before the full force of Proposition 209 went into effect, the proportion of black freshmen matched the state population, 7 percent.) The percentage of Hispanic freshmen at Berkeley (11 percent) is not even a third of the state proportion (35 percent). White freshmen (29 percent) are also below the state average (44 percent). 
 This is in part because getting into Berkeley -- U.S. News & World Report's top-ranked public university -- has never been more daunting. There were 41,750 applicants for this year's freshman class of 4,157. Nearly half had a weighted grade point average of 4.0 or better (weighted for advanced courses). There is even grumbling from ''the old Blues'' -- older alumni named for the school color -- ''who complain because their kids can't get in,'' says Gregg Thomson, director of the Office of Student Research.
 Mr. Hu applied to a lot of colleges, but Berkeley felt right for him from the start. ''It's the intellectual atmosphere -- this place is intense.'' 
 Mr. Hu says he was pressured by a professor to go into something like medicine or engineering. ''It's a stereotype, but a lot of Asians who come here just study engineering and the sciences,'' he says. ''I was never interested in that.'' 
 But as the only son of professionals born in China, Mr. Hu fits the profile of Asians at Berkeley in at least one way: they are predominantly first-generation American. About 95 percent of Asian freshmen come from a family in which one or both parents were born outside the United States. 
 He dashes off to class, and I wander through the serene setting of Memorial Glade, in the center of campus, and then loop over to Sproul Plaza, the beating heart of the university, where dozens of tables are set up by clubs representing every conceivable ethnic group. Out of nowhere, an a cappella group, mostly Asian men, appears and starts singing a Beach Boys song. Yes, tradition still matters in California.
 ACROSS the United States, at elite private and public universities, Asian enrollment is near an all-time high. Asian-Americans make up less than 5 percent of the population but typically make up 10 to 30 percent of students at the nation's best colleges:in 2005, the last year with across-the-board numbers, Asians made up 24 percent of the undergraduate population at Carnegie Mellon and at Stanford, 27 percent at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 14 percent at Yale and 13 percent at Princeton. 
 And according to advocates of race-neutral admissions policies, those numbers should be even higher. 
 Asians have become the ''new Jews,'' in the phrase of Daniel Golden, whose recent book, ''The Price of Admission: How America's Ruling Class Buys Its Way Into Elite Colleges -- and Who Gets Left Outside the Gates,'' is a polemic against university admissions policies. Mr. Golden, a reporter for The Wall Street Journal, is referring to evidence that, in the first half of the 20th century, Ivy League schools limited the number of Jewish students despite their outstanding academic records to maintain the primacy of upper-class Protestants. Today, he writes, ''Asian-Americans are the odd group out, lacking racial preferences enjoyed by other minorities and the advantages of wealth and lineage mostly accrued by upper-class whites. Asians are typecast in college admissions offices as quasi-robots programmed by their parents to ace math and science.'' 
 As if to illustrate the point, a study released in October by the Center for Equal Opportunity, an advocacy group opposing race-conscious admissions, showed that in 2005 Asian-Americans were admitted to the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, at a much lower rate (54 percent) than black applicants (71 percent) and Hispanic applicants (79 percent) -- despite median SAT scores that were 140 points higher than Hispanics and 240 points higher than blacks. 
 To force the issue on a legal level, a freshman at Yale filed a complaint in the fall with the Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights, contending he was denied admission to Princeton because he is Asian. The student, Jian Li, the son of Chinese immigrants in Livingston, N.J., had a perfect SAT score and near-perfect grades, including numerous Advanced Placement courses.
 ''This is just a very, very egregious system,'' Mr. Li told me. ''Asians are held to different standards simply because of their race.''
 To back his claim, he cites a 2005 study by Thomas J. Espenshade and Chang Y. Chung, both of Princeton, which concludes that if elite universities were to disregard race, Asians would fill nearly four of five spots that now go to blacks or Hispanics. Affirmative action has a neutral effect on the number of whites admitted, Mr. Li is arguing, but it raises the bar for Asians. The way Princeton selects its entering class, Mr. Li wrote in his complaint, ''seems to be a calculated move by a historically white institution to protect its racial identity while at the same time maintaining a facade of progressivism.'' 
 Private institutions can commit to affirmative action, even with state bans, but federal money could be revoked if they are found to be discriminating. Mr. Li is seeking suspension of federal financial assistance to Princeton. ''I'm not seeking anything personally,'' he says. ''I'm happy at Yale. But I grew up thinking that in America race should not matter.''
 Admissions officials have long denied that they apply quotas. Nonetheless, race is important ''to ensure a diverse student body,'' says Cass Cliatt, a Princeton spokeswoman. But, she adds, ''Looking at the merits of race is not the same as the opposite'' -- discrimination. 
 Elite colleges like Princeton review the ''total package,'' in her words, looking at special talents, extracurricular interests and socioeconomics -- factors like whether the applicant is the first in the family to go to college or was raised by a single mother. ''There's no set formula or standard for how we evaluate students,'' she says. High grades and test scores would seem to be merely a baseline. ''We turned away approximately half of applicants with maximum scores on the SAT, all three sections,'' Ms. Cliatt says of the class Mr. Li would have joined. 
 In the last two months, the nation has seen a number of new challenges to racial engineering in schools. In November, the United States Supreme Court heard a case questioning the legality of using race in assigning students to public schools in Seattle and Louisville, Ky. Voters are also sending a message, having thrown out racial preferences in Michigan in November, following a lead taken by California, Texas, Florida and Washington. Last month, Ward Connerly, the architect of Proposition 209, announced his next potential targets for a ballot initiative, including Arizona, Colorado, Missouri and Nebraska. 
 When I ask the chancellor at Berkeley, Robert J. Birgeneau, if there is a perfect demographic recipe on this campus that likes to think of itself as the world's finest public university -- Harvard on the Hill -- he demurs. 
 ''We are a meritocracy,'' he says. And -- by law, he adds -- the campus is supposed to be that way. If Asians made up, say, 70 percent of the campus, he insists, there would still be no attempt to reduce their numbers. 
 Asian enrollment at his campus actually began to ramp up well before affirmative action was banned. 
 Historically, Asians have faced discrimination, with exclusion laws in the 1800s that kept them from voting, owning property or legally immigrating. Many were run out of West Coast towns by mobs. But by the 1970s and '80s, with a change in immigration laws, a surge in Asian arrivals began to change the complexion of California, and it was soon reflected in an overrepresentation at its top universities. 
 In the late 1980s, administrators appeared to be limiting Asian-American admissions, prompting a federal investigation. The result was an apology by the chancellor at the time, and a vow that there would be no cap on Asian enrollment. 
 University administrators and teachers use anguished words to describe what has happened since. 
 ''I've heard from Latinos and blacks that Asians should not be considered a minority at all,'' says Elaine Kim, a professor of Asian-American studies at Berkeley. ''What happened after they got rid of affirmative action has been a disaster -- for blacks and Latinos. And for Asians it's been a disaster because some people think the campus has become all-Asian.''
 The diminishing number of African-Americans on campus is a consistent topic of discussion among black students. Some say they feel isolated, without a sense of community. ''You really do feel like you stand out,'' says Armilla Staley, a second-year law student. In her freshman year, she was one of only nine African-Americans in a class of 265. ''I'm almost always the only black person in my class,'' says Ms. Staley, who favors a return to some form of affirmative action.
 ''Quite frankly, when you walk around campus, it's overwhelmingly Asian,'' she says. ''I don't feel any tension between Asians and blacks, but I don't really identify with the Asian community as a minority either.''
 Walter Robinson, the director of undergraduate admissions, who is African-American, has the same impression. ''The problem is that because we're so few, we get absorbed among the masses,'' he says.
 Chancellor Birgeneau says he finds the low proportion of blacks and Hispanics appalling, and two years into his tenure, he has not found a remedy. To broaden the pool, the U.C. system promises to admit the top 4 percent at each high school in the state and uses ''comprehensive review'' -- considering an applicant's less quantifiable attributes. But the net results for a campus like Berkeley are disappointing. His university, Dr. Birgeneau says, loses talented black applicants to private universities like Stanford, where African-American enrollment was 10 percent last year -- nearly three times that at Berkeley. 
 ''I just don't believe that in a state with three million African-Americans there is not a single engineering student for the state's premier public university,'' says the chancellor, who has called for reinstating racial preferences. 
 One leading critic of bringing affirmative action back to Berkeley is David A. Hollinger, chairman of its history department and author of ''Post-Ethnic America: Beyond Multiculturalism.'' He supported racial preferences before Proposition 209, but is no longer so sure. ''You could argue that the campus is more diverse now,'' because Asians comprise so many different cultures, says Dr. Hollinger. A little more than half of Asian freshmen at Berkeley are Chinese, the largest group, followed by Koreans, East-Indian/Pakistani, Filipino and Japanese. 
 He believes that Latinos are underrepresented because many come from poor agrarian families with little access to the good schools that could prepare them for the rigors of Berkeley. He points out that, on the other hand, many of the Korean students on campus are sons and daughters of parents with college degrees. In any event, he says, it is not the university's job to fix the problems that California's public schools produce. 
 Dr. Birgeneau agrees on at least one point: ''I think we're now at the point where the category of Asian is not very useful. Koreans are different from people from Sri Lanka and they're different than Japanese. And many Chinese-Americans are a lot like Caucasians in some of their values and areas of interest.'' 
 IF Berkeley is now a pure meritocracy, what does that say about the future of great American universities in the post-affirmative action age? Are we headed toward a day when all elite colleges will look something like Berkeley: relatively wealthy whites (about 60 percent of white freshmen's families make $100,000 or more) and a large Asian plurality and everyone else underrepresented? Is that the inevitable result of color-blind admissions? 
 Eric Liu, author of ''The Accidental Asian: Notes of a Native Speaker'' and a domestic policy adviser to former President Bill Clinton, is troubled by the assertion that the high Asian makeup of elite campuses reflects a post-racial age where merit prevails.
 ''I really challenge this idea of a pure meritocracy,'' says Mr. Liu, who runs mentoring programs that grew out of his book ''Guiding Lights: How to Mentor and Find Life's Purpose.'' Until all students -- from rural outposts to impoverished urban settings -- are given equal access to the Advanced Placement classes that have proved to be a ticket to the best colleges, then the idea of pure meritocracy is bunk, he says. ''They're measuring in a fair way the results of an unfair system.'' 
 He also says Asian-Americans are tired of having to live up to -- or defend -- ''that tired old warhorse of the model minority.'' 
 ''We shouldn't be calling these studying habits that help so many kids get into good schools 'Asian values,' '' says Mr. Liu, himself a product of Yale College and Harvard Law School. ''These are values that used to be called Jewish values or Anglo-Saxon work-ethic values. The bottom line message from the family is the same: work hard, defer gratification, share sacrifice and focus on the big goal.'' 
 Hazel R. Markus lectures on this very subject as a professor of psychology at Stanford and co-director of its Research Institute for Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity. Her studies have found that Asian students do approach academics differently. Whether educated in the United States or abroad, she says, they see professors as authority figures to be listened to, not challenged in the back-and-forth Socratic tradition. ''You hear some teachers say that the Asian kids get great grades but just sit there and don't participate,'' she says. ''Talking and thinking are not the same thing. Being a student to some Asians means that it's not your place to question, and that flapping your gums all day is not the best thing.'' 
 One study at the institute looked at Asian-American students in lab courses, and found they did better solving problems alone and without conversations with other students. ''This can make for some big problems,'' she says, like misunderstandings between classmates. ''But people are afraid to talk about these differences. And one of the fantastic opportunities of going to a Stanford or Berkeley is to learn something about other cultures, so we should be talking about it.''
 As for the rise in Asian enrollment, the reason ''isn't a mystery,'' Dr. Markus says. ''This needs to come out and we shouldn't hide it,'' she says. ''In Asian families, the No. 1 job of a child is to be a student. Being educated -- that's the most honorable thing you can do.''
 BERKELEY is ''Asian heaven,'' as one student puts it. ''When I went back East my Asian friends were like, 'Wow, you go to Berkeley -- that must be great,' '' says Tera Nakata, who just graduated and now works in the residence halls. 
 You need only go to colleges in, say, the Midwest to appreciate the Asian feel of this campus. But Berkeley is freighted with the baggage of stereotypes -- that it is boring socially, full of science nerds, a hard place to make friends. 
 ''About half the students at this school spend their entire career in the library,'' one person wrote in a posting on vault.com, a popular job and college search Web site. 
 Another wrote: ''Everyone who is white joins the Greek system and everyone who isn't joins a 'theme house' or is a member of a club related to race.''
 There is some truth to the image, students acknowledge, but it does not do justice to the bigger experience at Berkeley. ''You have the ability to stay with people who are like you and not get out of your comfort zone,'' says Ms. Nakata. ''But I learned a lot by mixing it up. I lived in a dorm with a lot of different races, and we would have these deep conversations all the time about race and our feelings of where we belong and where we came from.'' But she also says that the ''celebrate diversity aspect'' of Berkeley doesn't go deep. ''We want to respect everyone's differences, but we don't mix socially.''
 Near the end of my stay at Berkeley I met a senior, Jonathan Lee, the son of a Taiwanese father and a mother from Hong Kong. He grew up well east of Los Angeles, in the New America sprawl of fast-growing Riverside County, where his father owned a restaurant. He went to a high school where he was a minority.
 ''When I was in high school,'' he says, ''there was this notion that you're Chinese, you must be really good in math.'' But now Mr. Lee is likely to become a schoolteacher, much to the chagrin of his parents, ''who don't think it will be very lucrative.''
 The story of Jon Lee's journey at Berkeley is compelling. As president of the Asian-American Association, he has tried to dispel stereotypes of ''the Dragon Lady seductress or the idea that everybody plays the piano.'' His closest friends are in the club. It may seem that he has become more insular, that he has found his tribe. But Mr. Lee says he has been trying to lead other Asian students out of the university bubble. Once a week, they go into a mostly black and Hispanic middle school in the Bay Area to mentor students. 
 For the last five semesters, Mr. Lee has worked with one student. ''I take him out for dim sum, or to Chinatown, or just talk about college and what it's like at Cal,'' he says. ''We talk about race and we talk about everything. And he's taught me a lot.''
 The mentoring program came about not because of prodding by well-meaning advisers, teachers or student groups. It came about because Mr. Lee looked around at the new America -- in California, the first state with no racial majority -- and found that it looked very different from Berkeley. And much as he loves Berkeley, he knew that if he wanted to learn enough to teach, he needed to get off campus.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Education Life section last Sunday about the large percentage of Asian students at the University of California, Berkeley, attributed an erroneous distinction to the state. Hawaii -- not California -- was the first state without a racial majority.
 Also, an article about financial aid for graduate students misstated eligibility for federal PLUS loans. Graduate students may indeed apply for the loans; they became eligible in July 2006.
 And an article about rigorous high schools misstated the student newspaper job held by Prateek Kumar of Phillips Academy, who talked about his challenging courses. Mr. Kumar is deputy managing editor of the Phillipian, not the top editor. (Stephen S. Blackman is the editor in chief.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: 10 YEARS AFTER -- Minority students, top, at a Berkeley rally before affirmative action was abolished. At left, the campus today
Kim Hung and Crystal Lam review class notes. (pg. 24)
(Photographs by JIM WILSON/The New York Times)(pg. 25)
BERKELEY BUBBLE -- Jonathan Lee and Jonathan Hu, top and center, say they revel in not standing out. Walter Robinson, bottom, director of undergraduate admissions, struggles to fashion a diverse campus. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 26)
PERFECT SCORE, THIN ENVELOPE -- Jian Li, a freshman at Yale, has filed a complaint against Princeton. He contends that he was rejected because of race, and that admissions standards are higher for Asians. (Photo by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 27)Chart: ''East Meets West''The ethnic breakdown of freshmen, fall 2006, at the four largest University of California campuses, compared with the population of the State of California.CALIFORNIAWhite -- 44%Hispanic -- 35Asian -- 12Black -- 7Other/unknown -- 2UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEYWhite -- 29Hispanic -- 11Asian -- 46Black -- 4Other/unknown -- 10AT DAVISWhite -- 33Hispanic -- 13Asian -- 43Black -- 3Other/unknown -- 8AT IRVINEWhite -- 23Hispanic -- 12Asian -- 56Black -- 2Other/unknown -- 7AT LOS ANGELESWhite -- 31Hispanic -- 13Asian -- 43Black -- 2Other/unknown -- 11(Sources by Census Bureau
 University of California)(pg. 26)Chart: ''Too Many? Not Enough?''Some say Asian-Americans are being denied spots at top colleges to keep their numbers in check (Asians make up 5 percent of the population). Following are percentages of Asian undergraduates at selected colleges.Stanford -- 24%Harvard -- 18%Princeton -- 13%M.I.T. -- 27%Amherst -- 13%Johns Hopkins -- 22%Dartmouth -- 14%Carnegie Mellon -- 24%Stony Brook (SUNY) -- 22%California Institute of Technology -- 33%Cornell -- 16%Cooper Union -- 20%Wellesley -- 27%University of Texas, Austin -- 17%Columbia -- 13%Rutgers, New Brunswick -- 22(Source by College Board, fall 2005)(pgs. 25, 26, 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (74%); LITIGATION (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); FAST FOOD (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); RETAILERS (66%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (65%); RACE & RACISM (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (60%) Colleges and Universities; Asian-Americans; Affirmative Action; Law and Legislation; Admissions Standards; Special Sections; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%) University of California (Berkeley)

PERSON: Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



146 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; BOOKS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Plagiarism: Everybody Into the Pool

BYLINE: By Charles McGrath. 
Charles McGrath is a writer at large at The Times and former editor of the Book Review.

 BODY:

The Little Book of Plagiarism
By Richard A. Posner
Pantheon Books; hardcover

Historians in Trouble
By Jon Wiener
The New Press; hardcover

Plagiarism and Literary Property
in the Romantic Period
By Tilar J. Mazzeo
University of Pennsylvania Press; hardcover
 THE club of people accused of plagiarism gets ever larger. High-profile members include Stephen Ambrose, Doris Kearns Goodwin, Kaavya Viswanathan -- of chick-lit notoriety -- and now even Ian McEwan, whose best-selling novel ''Atonement'' has recently been discovered to harbor passages from a World War II memoir by Lucilla Andrews. Plagiarism is apparently so rife these days that it would be extremely satisfying to discover that ''The Little Book of Plagiarism,'' by Richard A. Posner, has itself been plagiarized.
The watchdogs have been caught before. The section of the University of Oregon handbook that deals with plagiarism, for example, was copied from the Stanford handbook. 
 Mr. Posner, moreover, is a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and a law professor at the University of Chicago who turns out books and articles with annoying frequency and facility. Surely, under deadline pressure, he is tempted every now and then to resort to a little clipping and pasting, especially since he cuts members of his own profession a good deal of slack on the plagiarism issue. In the book he readily acknowledges that judges publish opinions all the time that are in fact written by their clerks, but he excuses the practice on the ground that everyone knows about it and therefore no one is harmed. What he doesn't consider much is whether a judge who gains a reputation for particularly well-written opinions or for seldom being reversed -- or, for that matter, who is freed from his legal chores to do freelance writing -- doesn't benefit in much the same way as a student who persuades one of the smart kids to do his homework for him.
 Sadly, however, ''The Little Book of Plagiarism'' appears to be original. It's a useful and remarkably concise overview of the subject, and is in almost every respect a typically Posnerian production: smart, lucid, a little self-satisfied and tilting noticeably toward the economic-analysis end of legal theory. In defining exactly what plagiarism is, for example, Mr. Posner insists on two main criteria: not just deceit but fraudulence, in the sense that the reader is tricked into behaving differently -- into buying a book, say, that he would have ignored had he known it was copied. For plagiarism to be wrong in the Posner sense it has to be materially harmful, in other words, and yet bookbuyers seldom act as if originality matters much to them. Mr. Ambrose's and Ms. Goodwin's sales didn't slip much when they were accused of plagiarism, and it's hard to imagine that, in the long run, Mr. Mc-
 Ewan's borrowings, which amount to only a couple of hundred words in a long and brilliant novel, will do much to change the esteem in which ''Atonement'' is generally held.
 Most of the time, if we readers care about plagiarism, it's because it seems cheesy and a little embarrassing. We'd rather not think that Doris Kearns Goodwin, of all people, was guilty of scholarly shoplifting. Of course, there is sometimes a moral component to plagiarism -- as when a student cheats by turning in a term paper not his own -- but in the public sphere it more often seems like an aesthetic offense, a crime against taste. 
 This is how the Romantics, supposedly the first generation to conceive of literary ownership in the modern sense, really thought about the issue, according to Tilar J. Mazzeo's ''Plagiarism and Literary Property in the Romantic Period.'' In style and methodology, Ms. Mazzeo's new book is an academic wheezer, a retooled dissertation perhaps, but it's also smart and insightful, and points out that 18th-century writers took a certain amount of borrowing for granted. What mattered was whether you were sneaky about it and, even more important, whether you improved upon what you took, by weaving it seamlessly into your own text and adding some new context or insight. 
 Interestingly, the Australian novelist Thomas Keneally recently defended Mr. McEwan in just this way, writing, ''Fiction depends on a certain value-added quality created on top of the raw material, and that McEwan has added value beyond the original will, I believe, be richly demonstrated.'' In the case of ''Atonement,'' the principle seems inarguable, but it's also a slippery slope. You could argue that Kaavya Viswanathan improved upon the raw material of the Megan McCafferty novel she relied on so liberally, and yet no one is rushing to her defense.
 Perhaps Ms. Viswanathan's other great failing, besides cluelessness and the belief, surprisingly common among plagiarists, that you can get away with copying something that practically everyone has read, is that she doesn't have tenure and friends in high places. 
 At the same time that he is letting judges off the hook, Mr. Posner acknowledges that in academic circles there is a double standard for plagiarism, with professors often getting off far more lightly than their students. The reason, he says, is that the left, which dominates the professoriate these days, is soft on plagiarism because the left is uncomfortable with ideas of individual creativity and ownership. (Surprisingly, he fails to take a whack at French theorists like Barthes and Foucault, who argued that in the strictest sense there is no such thing as an ''author,'' because all writing is collaborative and produced by a kind of cultural collective.)
 In ''Historians in Trouble'' (published in 2005 but due out in paperback this coming spring), Jon Wiener argues the same thing in reverse, claiming that though underrepresented in academe, the right nevertheless has more power to make public fuss about academic misconduct. He points out that it was The Weekly Standard that flung the most mud in the direction of Stephen Ambrose, even though Mr. Ambrose, no lefty, was a celebrant of patriotism and the military.
 No wonder young people are confused, and no wonder they continue to plagiarize in record numbers, with more than 40 percent of college students admitting to copying from the Internet in 2001. We talk to them about plagiarism in absolute terms, as if we were all agreed on what it was, and yet the literature suggests that once you're out of school, it proves to be a crime like any other, with the punishment partly depending on whom you know and on how well you pull it off.


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (92%); PLAGIARISM (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (55%); APPEALS COURTS (52%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews; Special Sections; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: Charles Mcgrath; Richard A Posner; Jon Wiener; Tilar J Mazzeo

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



147 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2A; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE OSCARS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Berlin Wall, Listening to Life

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
FOR years, at times almost obsessively, German cinema has been examining this country's Nazi past and its troubled conscience. Yet the 45 years that East Germany spent under Communist rule has remained largely unexplored.
 The most popular post-cold-war movie about East Germany, ''Good Bye Lenin!,'' was a 2003 comedy that provoked a bizarre wave of nostalgia for life before the Berlin Wall was breached in November 1989. Surely there was more to be said. Surely those who suffered for decades under the Stalinist dictatorship had stories worthy of the screen.
Now this historical gap has been bridged by a young German director, Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, who has spent his whole life in the West, including long stretches in the United States and Britain, and who was only 16 when East Germany imploded. And for his first feature film he has plucked the drama from his imagination, not from real life.
 Still, the unexpected success of his $2 million film, ''The Lives of Others,'' starring stalwarts of German cinema like Ulrich Muhe, Sebastian Koch and Ulrich Tukur, suggests that the ghosts of Communism -- and, above all, of the regime's secret police, the Stasi -- are far from laid to rest. 
 Since opening here in March, it has been seen by 1.6 million people, a huge audience for a German movie. It has also won seven Lolas, the German equivalent of the Oscar; European Film Awards for best movie, actor and screenplay; and a Golden Globe nomination; and it has been selected as Germany's entry for a foreign-language Oscar. It is set to open in New York and Los Angeles on Feb. 9.
 ''It's not a Stasi film,'' Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck said, stretching his 6-foot-8-inch frame under the dining table of his roomy apartment here. ''That's just the setting.''
 Well, yes, up to a point. It is a movie about ideology, collaboration, opportunism, fear and courage, elements common to many a confrontation between human nature and authoritarian power. Yet it has set off intense debate and soul-searching here because it spotlights a police state that, to this day, has not had to answer for its sins.
 ''I think it still haunts people because we did not have a healthy purge as we had in 1945,'' Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck said. ''Things were laundered after 1945 because the Allies forced us to do it. That did not happen after 1989. I don't know the exact number, but I think only about six people were sentenced for crimes committed by the Stasi, out of the 300,000 people who worked there.''
 His film, then, while both a love story and a psychological thriller, is also undeniably political. Set in East Berlin in 1984, it revolves around the city's cultural elite, notably the playwright Georg Dreyman (Mr. Koch), his actress girlfriend Christa-Maria Sieland (Martina Gedeck) and the blacklisted stage director Albert Jerska (Volkmar Kleinert).
 To the regime, artists who were not informers were automatically suspect. So it was hardly unusual for the security minister, Bruno Hempf (Thomas Thieme), to order the lovers' apartment to be bugged. The man assigned to do so, Gerd Wiesler (Mr. Muhe), is an experienced interrogator. He also stands out among his cynical and corrupt Stasi colleagues: he is a true believer.
 From an attic packed with recording instruments, Mr. Wiesler monitors the lives of Mr. Dreyman, Ms. Sieland and their guests, even noting with Teutonic efficiency when the only sound emanating from the apartment is lovemaking. But when one evening he hears Mr. Dreyman playing the piano (a piece composed for the film by Gabriel Yared), he is suddenly moved, even disturbed. And he begins to examine his own life.
 And as it happens, it was also music, not the Stasi, that inspired the 33-year-old director. 
 Born in Cologne, Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck had a peripatetic upbringing because of his father's job with Lufthansa: when he was 2, the family moved to New York for six years; Berlin, Frankfurt and Brussels followed. In 1991, at 18, Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck went to St. Petersburg to learn Russian. Two years later he began studying politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford University.
 ''For a long time I wanted to be a novelist,'' he said, ''but then I felt that films were more the art of our time. The problem was that I didn't know anyone who worked in movies. I didn't even know anyone who knew anyone who worked in movies. I was very remote from that world.''
 At Oxford, however, where in 1993-94 the director Richard Attenborough held a rotating arts professorship created by the British theater producer Cameron Mackintosh, Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck won the chance of working with Mr. Attenborough on ''In Love and War.'' And it was Mr. Attenborough who urged him to attend film school.
 ''My God, I thought, I have just spent five years at university,'' he recalled. ''I cannot go to school for another four years. But I took his advice and went to film school in Munich. And I made a few short films, which did well enough for me to think I might find the money to make a feature film.''
 By then he also had an idea, born of a film school lecturer's demand that students come up with 14 original movie treatments in eight weeks.
 ''I was lying on the floor feeling miserable and thinking, 'Oh, I've picked the wrong profession,' '' he said. ''Then I started listening to music and remembered Maxim Gorky, who quoted Lenin as saying that Beethoven's 'Appassionata' was his favorite piece of music. But Lenin said, 'I don't want to listen to it because it makes me want to stroke people's heads, and I have to smash those heads to bring the revolution to them.' ''
 At that moment ''The Lives of Others'' was born.
 ''I suddenly had this image in my mind of a person sitting in a depressing room with earphones on his head and listening into what he supposes is the enemy of the state and the enemy of his ideas, and what he is really hearing is beautiful music that touches him,'' Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck said. ''I sat down and in a couple of hours had written the treatment.''
 After he left Munich for Berlin in 2001, though, much work lay ahead, including research in Stasi archives, visits to Stasi detention centers and interviews with East German artists and former Stasi members. With one Stasi veteran he raised the question of so-called ''odor samples'' that allowed dogs to establish if suspects attended meetings of dissidents. For this, detainees were required to wipe a cloth between their legs.
 ''This elderly man, maybe 65, surrounded by pictures of his grandchildren, said: 'Oh, yes, it really worked, except once when a woman we were interrogating had her period, and there was just one drop of blood on the cloth, and the dogs were completely confused,' '' Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck recounted. ''And the guy began laughing. Suddenly you realized how close this seemingly respectable gentleman was to complete barbarism.''
 No less disturbing, Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck concluded that few former Stasi operatives have any regrets. And he said he believes they remain influential in blocking exposure of Stasi crimes. He and Mr. Muhe were successfully sued for libel for a book containing his screenplay and Mr. Muhe's assertion that his former wife informed on him.
 ''You could feel the kind of hatred poured on Ulrich Muhe for breaking this taboo,'' he said. ''It shows how tense Germany still is about the facts.''
 On the other hand, having struggled to find a German distributor for a film that was refused by the 2005 Berlin film festival, Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck can feel vindicated both by its success and by the response of many intellectual figures of the former East Germany, including the renowned poet-composer Wolf Biermann.
 Yet in the end Mr. Henckel von Donnersmarck sees his movie as a tribute to the power of music.
 ''It can bring feelings into your life whether you want it to or not,'' he said. ''There is no way you can defend yourself against it. You can't build a wall of principle or ideology against it. It will go through it like an X-ray. It just has that power.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sebastian Koch and Martina Gedeck in ''The Lives of Others,'' a German drama written and directed by Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck. (Photo by Hagen Keller/Sony Pictures Classics)(pg. 8)
 Sebastian Koch and Martina Gedeck in ''The Lives of Others.'' (Photo by Hagen Keller/Sony Pictures Classics)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); COLD WAR (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); SENTENCING (60%) Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: Stasi (East German Intelligence Service)

PERSON: Alan Riding; Florian Henckel Von Donnersmarck

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Germany 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



148 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Lessons for Homesick Evacuees on How to Be Houstonian 

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Hurricane Katrina evacuees take note: You're not in New Orleans anymore.
 It's time to ''think like a Houstonian.''
That is the message from two displaced New Orleanians in a lighthearted new video prepared by Houston social agencies to help survivors of the 2005 hurricane find work and establish new roots here in the nation's fourth largest city. 
 Of 106,393 suddenly unemployed evacuees who took refuge in the Houston area, 28,508 had found jobs through November, according to WorkSource, an arm of the Texas Workforce Commission, which made the seven-minute video with the City of Houston and Neighborhood Centers Inc., a nonprofit aid group, for the Community Settlement Network, a group of aid organizations. But many newcomers still need guidance, said Cindy Gabriel, communications director for the network and a producer of the video, to be posted on local Web sites.
 Ad-libbing a little riff on ''The Wizard of Oz,'' the volunteer stars, Durrell Johnson and Rashida Jackson (she wears Dorothy-style pigtails), voice amazement at the unfamiliar skyline and lament the lack of oyster po' boy sandwiches with cheese before getting down to a series of recommendations.
 ''You have to know a little bit about the city and know how people think here,'' says Ms. Jackson, 29, formerly an adjunct professor of health promotion at the University of New Orleans and now working as a case management supervisor at Neighborhood Centers.
 Mr. Johnson, 36, who worked for an AIDS foundation in New Orleans and is now a case manager at Neighborhood Centers, agrees. ''That's what you do,'' he says, ''you think like a Houstonian.''
 A Houstonian is prepared, they agree -- prepared for lots of paperwork. Keep index cards with notes of previous jobs and employers.
 A Houstonian does not keep a cellphone with a 504 New Orleans area code. ''You want to make sure that the employer knows that you are planning on staying in Houston,'' Mr. Johnson says. 
 Make sure, Ms. Jackson agrees, ''to put a 713 or 832 or another local number on that application.'' 
 And Mr. Johnson chides, ''You should leave the rap or jazz intros out of your voice messaging system so that employers know that you are serious about finding a job.''
 Don't regale prospective employers with tales of narrow escapes, he cautions: ''You should think about going forward as opposed to backward.''
 ''Now that you're in Houston looking for work,'' Mr. Johnson says, ''you should think of yourself as a Houstonian, not a homesick New Orleanian.''
 Ms. Jackson finds a rainbow in Houston. ''I don't know about you,'' she tells Mr. Johnson, ''but the city's kind of starting to grow on me.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The video was produced by a group of aid organizations in Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (79%); WEATHER (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Katrina (Storm); Labor; Recordings and Downloads (Video)

COMPANY: WINDSTREAM CORP (56%)

TICKER: WIN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%)

PERSON: Ralph Blumenthal

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La); Houston (Tex); Texas

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



149 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Budget Delay Stymies Scientific Research

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD; Dennis Overbye and Andrew C. Revkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The failure of Congress to pass new budgets for the current fiscal year has produced a crisis in science financing that threatens to close major facilities, delay new projects and leave thousands of government scientists out of work, federal and private officials say.
 ''The consequences for American science will be disastrous,'' said Michael S. Lubell, a senior official of the American Physical Society, the world's largest group of physicists. ''The message to young scientists and industry leaders, alike, will be, 'Look outside the U.S. if you want to succeed.' '' 
Last year, Congress passed just 2 of 11 spending bills -- for the military and domestic security -- and froze all other federal spending at 2006 levels. Factoring in inflation, the budgets translate into reductions of about 3 percent to 4 percent for most fields of science and engineering. 
 Representative Rush D. Holt, a New Jersey Democrat and a physicist, said that scientists, in most cases, were likely to see little or no relief. ''It's that bad,'' Mr. Holt said. ''For this year, it's going to be belt tightening all around.''
 Congressional Democrats said last month that they would not try to finish multiple spending bills left hanging by the departed Republican majority and would instead keep most government agencies operating under their current budgets until next fall. Except for the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security, the government is being financed under a stopgap resolution. It expires Feb. 15, and Democrats said they planned to extend a similar resolution through Sept. 30.
 Some Republicans favored not finishing the bills because of automatic savings achieved by forgoing expected spending increases. Democrats and Republicans alike say that operating under current budgets, in some cases with less money, can strap federal agencies and lead to major disruptions in service.
 Scientists say that is especially true for the physical sciences, which include physics, chemistry and astronomy. When it comes to federal financing, such fields in recent years have fared poorly compared with biology. The National Institutes of Health, for instance, spend more than $28 billion annually on biomedical programs, five times more than all federal spending for physical sciences.
 For 2007, Congress and the Bush administration agreed that the federal budget for the physical sciences should get a major increase. A year ago, in his American Competitiveness Initiative, President Bush called for doubling the money for science over a decade. That prompted schools and federal laboratories to prepare for long-deferred repairs and expansions, plans that appear now to be in jeopardy. 
 Among the projects at risk is the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider at the Brookhaven National Laboratory in New York, on Long Island. The $600 million machine -- 2.4 miles in circumference -- slams together subatomic particles to recreate conditions at the beginning of time, some 14 billion years ago, so scientists can study the Big Bang theory. It was already operating partly on charitable contributions, officials say, and now could shut down entirely, throwing its 1,069 specialists into limbo.
 ''For us, it's quite serious,'' said Sam Aronson, the Brookhaven director. For the nation, Dr. Aronson added, the timing is especially bad because the collider has given the United States a head start on European rivals, who hope to build a more powerful machine.
 ''Things are pretty miserable for a year in which people talked a lot about regaining our competitive edge,'' Dr. Aronson said. ''I think all that's stalled.''
 Another potential victim is the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Illinois, where a four-mile-long collider investigates the building blocks of matter. Its director, Piermaria Oddone, said the laboratory would close for a month as most of the staff of 4,200 are sent home.
 Congress and the Bush administration could restore much of the science financing in the 2008 budget. Scientists say it would help enormously, but add that senior staff members by that point may have already abandoned major projects for other jobs that were more stable.
 Other projects affected by the budget freeze include: 
 A $1.4 billion particle accelerator at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee meant to probe the fine structure of materials and aid in cutting-edge technologies. Its opening might be delayed a year.
 A $30 million contribution to a global team designing an experimental reactor to fuse atoms rather than break them apart. Controlled fusion, if successful, would offer a nearly inexhaustible source of energy.
 A $440 million X-ray machine some two miles long at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in California that would act like a microscope to peer inside materials, aiding science and industry. Construction, begun last year, would slow.
 ''It's pretty bad,'' said Burton Richter, a Nobel laureate in physics. ''There's going to be another year of stagnation. That hurts a lot.''
 The National Science Foundation, which supports basic research at universities, had expected a $400 million increase over the $5.7 billion budget it received in 2006. Now, the freeze is prompting program cuts, delays and slowdowns.
 ''It's rather devastating,'' said Jeff Nesbit, the foundation's head of legislative and public affairs. ''While $400 million in the grand scheme of things might seem like decimal dust, it's hugely important for universities that rely on N.S.F. funding.''
 The threatened programs include a $50 million plan to build a supercomputer that universities would use to push back frontiers in science and engineering; a $310 million observatory meant to study the ocean environment from the seabed to the surface; a $62 million contribution to a global program of polar research involving 10 other nations; and a $98 million ship to explore the Arctic, including the thinning of its sheath of floating sea ice.
 Missions at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration are also threatened, with $100 million in cuts. Paul Hertz, the chief scientist at NASA's science mission directorate, said potential victims included programs to explore Mars, astrophysics and space weather.
 Physicists said a partial solution to the crisis would let the Energy Department do what it wanted to do all along for 2007: move $500 million left over from environmental cleanup accounts into the physical sciences. That would require Congressional approval but no budget increase.
 Raymond L. Orbach, the department's under secretary for science, in a recent statement seemed to call for such legislative relief. 
 ''A yearlong continuing resolution takes away many of the opportunities for advancing science,'' Dr. Orbach said. ''We urge Congress to continue critical investments in America's scientific leadership.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Flatlining Budgets''The physical sciences have not fared as well as some other disciplines in recent years in increasing federal research support. They were slated to get major budget increases in 2007, but Congress has not passed new budgets for the current fiscal year, freezing support at the 2006 level.Graph tracks federal research funds, in billions of 2006 dollars. The following are tracked:BiomedicalEngineeringPhysical sciencesMath and computer sciences2005 and 2006 data are preliminary(Source by American Association for the Advancement of Science)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (93%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PHYSICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (63%) Science and Technology; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Research; Engineering and Engineers; Science and Technology

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (59%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) William J Broad

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



150 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Critics Warn of Pitfalls In Democrats' Drug Plan 

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Democrats want the government to negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries, but insist that the government should not decide which drugs are covered. 
 Many economists and health policy experts see this as a paradox. The only way to get big savings and discounts, they say, is to steer patients to certain preferred drugs.
The debate on this issue, bubbling for several years, will come to a boil in Congress next week as the House votes on a Democratic proposal to require the secretary of health and human services to negotiate with drug manufacturers on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. 
 On the one hand, the bill says the secretary ''shall negotiate'' lower prices. On the other hand, the drug benefit would still be delivered by private insurers. Each plan would establish its own list of covered drugs, known as a formulary, and the secretary could not ''establish or require a particular formulary.''
 Under the 2003 Medicare law, passed by a Republican Congress, insurers and their agents negotiate prices with drug manufacturers. The law prohibits the secretary from interfering in those negotiations.
 Democrats describe their proposal as a way to overcome the power of special interests -- specifically, they say, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, which would rather deal with dozens of private insurers than with one big federal agency.
 ''Direct negotiation for lower prescription drug prices is directly related to our lobbying and ethics reform legislation,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. 
 The purpose of both proposals, Mr. Emanuel said, is ''to make sure that special interests do not control what happens in Congress.''
 Democrats often point to the Department of Veterans Affairs as a model, saying it negotiates much lower prices than Medicare gets. But the programs differ in significant ways.
 Under federal law, the V.A. is guaranteed a substantial discount -- about 24 percent off the average price paid to the manufacturer of a brand-name drug by commercial customers. Starting with this guarantee, officials negotiate deeper discounts.
 The veterans agency, which filled more than 120 million prescriptions last year, has a national formulary. The agency decides which drugs or classes of drugs it needs to treat its patients. 
 After those decisions are made, drug companies compete for the business, and the V.A. often encourages doctors to switch patients to the drugs that are selected, if it is medically appropriate to do so.
 Dr. Alan M. Garber, director of the Center for Health Policy at Stanford University, said he did not see how Medicare officials could obtain big discounts unless they were able to establish a restrictive formulary.
 ''To obtain drugs at low prices, a purchaser must be able to say no to covering a particular drug,'' said Dr. Garber, who is an economist and a physician. ''If you cannot walk away from a deal, there's no way you can be sure of obtaining a low price. That's true whether you are buying a car, a house or medications.''
 President Bush and the pharmaceutical industry adamantly oppose a requirement for Medicare to negotiate prices. But Congressional Democrats say it is worth a try.
 ''Republicans had their shot at making the drug bill work, and seniors are still not getting the prices they deserve,'' said Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the chief sponsor of the Democratic proposal. 
 ''Republicans chose to take care of their friends in the drug industry,'' Mr. Dingell said. ''It's our turn to prove that the bill can work for seniors.'' 
 AARP, the lobby for older Americans, supports the proposal. In a new advertising campaign, the group says: ''Medicare has 43 million members. And zero bargaining power when it comes to prescription drug prices.'' 
 William D. Novelli, the chief executive of AARP, said that Medicare drug plans ''currently have little choice but to accept the high prices set by manufacturers'' for brand-name drugs if no competing products are available.
 Under the Democrats' proposal, the secretary would negotiate the prices that could be charged to sponsors of Medicare drug plans, and those plans could try to obtain still lower prices on their own.
 In a report this week, the Congressional Budget Office said that private purchasers had leverage in negotiating prices when they could ''systematically favor one brand-name drug over another,'' thus increasing its share of the market. Nothing in the Democratic proposal allows the secretary to choose one drug over another, or to influence the choices made by Medicare drug plans.
 James R. Lang, former president of Anthem Prescription Management, a drug benefit manager, said: ''For this proposal to work, the government would have to take over price negotiations. It would have to take over formularies. You cannot do one without the other. There's no leverage. Manufacturers won't give up something for nothing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, is the chief sponsor of the proposal. (Photo by Dennis Cook/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); DRUG PRICES (91%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); ETHICS (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (52%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (57%); JOHN DINGELL (57%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



151 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 842 words

PERSON: Elizabeth Fox-Genovese

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, Historian, Is Dead at 65

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, a noted historian and women's studies scholar who roiled both disciplines with her transition from Marxist-inclined feminist to conservative public intellectual, died on Tuesday in Atlanta. She was 65 and had lived in Atlanta for many years.
 Ms. Fox-Genovese's husband, the historian Eugene D. Genovese, confirmed the death, citing no specific cause. He said that his wife had lived with multiple sclerosis for the last 15 years and that her health had declined after she underwent major surgery in October. 
At her death, Ms. Fox-Genovese was the Eleonore Raoul professor of the humanities at Emory University. In 1986, she founded the university's Institute for Women's Studies and was its director until 1991.
 Originally trained as a historian of 18th-century France, Ms. Fox-Genovese became known for her studies of women in the antebellum South, among them ''Within the Plantation Household: Black and White Women of the Old South'' (University of North Carolina, 1988) and ''To Be Worthy of God's Favor: Southern Women's Defense and Critique of Slavery'' (Gettysburg College, 1993).
 With her husband, a well-known historian of American slavery, Ms. Fox-Genovese wrote ''The Mind of the Master Class: History and Faith in the Southern Slaveholders' Worldview'' (Cambridge University), published in 2005. 
 Ms. Fox-Genovese was also known for two books about feminism that charted her evolving stance toward the movement. In the first, ''Feminism Without Illusions: A Critique of Individualism'' (University of North Carolina, 1991), she took the women's movement to task for reflecting -- too narrowly, she felt -- the concerns of middle-class white women.
 Reviewing Ms. Fox-Genovese's book in The New York Times Book Review, Rosemary L. Bray called it ''insightful and important,'' adding: ''It's possible that the tough questions she asks -- about abortion, pornography and the ubiquitous canon wars -- might finally inspire the thoughtful debate and civilized discourse we've been missing.''
 Writing in the Book Review in 1996, Mary Gordon had this to say about Ms. Fox-Genovese's next book on the subject, ''Feminism Is Not the Story of My Life: How Today's Feminist Elite Has Lost Touch With the Real Concerns of Women'' (Nan A. Talese):
 ''When we last left Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, at the end of 'Feminism Without Illusions,' she was deploring people who 'find it easy to blame feminism for some of the most disturbing aspects of modern life: divorce, latchkey children, teenage alcoholism, domestic violence, the sexual abuse of children.' Five years later, it seems she has become one of the people she warned us about.''
 Ms. Fox-Genovese, who in her early work supported abortion, though with reservations, would in later years equate it with murder. She would also argue publicly that the women's movement had been disastrous, and extol the virtues of traditional marriage and family.
 In interviews and in her writings, Ms. Fox-Genovese ascribed her political transformation in part to her growing embrace of religion. Reared in a household of secular intellectuals, she converted to Roman Catholicism in 1995.
 Elizabeth Ann Fox, known as Betsey, was born in Boston on May 28, 1941; her father, Edward Whiting Fox, was a prominent historian who served in the State Department in the Truman administration. She earned a bachelor's degree in history and French from Bryn Mawr in 1963; a master's in history from Harvard in 1966; and a Ph.D. in history, also from Harvard, in 1974.
 In 1969, she married Mr. Genovese, with whom she founded the journal Marxist Perspectives in the late 1970's. Mr. Genovese also moved rightward over the years, his work appearing increasingly in conservative publications. Before joining the Emory faculty in 1986, Ms. Fox-Genovese taught at the University of Rochester and the State University of New York at Binghamton.
 Besides her husband, Ms. Fox-Genovese is survived by a brother, Edward Whiting Fox Jr., of Indianapolis; and a sister, Rebecca MacMillan Fox, of Miami.
 In 1993, in what must have seemed an exquisite irony, Ms. Fox-Genovese, along with Emory University, was named in a highly publicized suit alleging sexual discrimination and harassment. The suit was filed by L. Virginia Gould, a former graduate student of Ms. Fox-Genovese's who was later associate director of the Institute for Women's Studies.
 Ms. Gould charged that Ms. Fox-Genovese harassed her psychologically and required her to perform personal services, like giving parties, that would not have been asked of a male subordinate. In 1996, the university settled the suit out of court for an undisclosed sum.
 Ms. Fox-Genovese's other books include ''The Origins of Physiocracy: Economic Revolution and Social Order in Eighteenth-Century France'' (Cornell University, 1976), and, with her husband, ''Fruits of Merchant Capital: Slavery and Bourgeois Property in the Rise and Expansion of Capitalism'' (Oxford University, 1983).
 In 2003, President Bush awarded her the National Humanities Medal.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Fox-Genovese in 2003. (Photo by William Philpott/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); SLAVERY (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WOMEN (78%); CHILDREN (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); UNDERAGE DRINKING (60%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (56%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (56%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



152 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; ROCKAWAYS JOURNAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: In Faded Beach Community Seeking Rebirth, Projects and Luxury Homes Meet

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
In a gritty section of the Rockaways, there is a cluster of new homes that stand out for their catchy colors and modern style. They are laid out in neat clusters with cheery nautical names like Ocean Breeze, The Sands and The Breakers, and there are newly mapped streets with names like Spinnaker Drive.
 This is the early phase of the mammoth Arverne by the Sea development, a heralded project to make over a mostly blighted stretch of the Rockaway peninsula into 2,300 homes and condominiums. 
There are snazzy showroom apartments with stunning ocean views, and a warm-and-fuzzy short film featuring families frolicking on the beach. The promotional material makes no mention of the surrounding low-income area of meager houses, shabby bungalows and public housing projects, but rather urges potential buyers to ''imagine the serenity of living in an oceanfront community.''
 That serenity has been interrupted in recent weeks by gunshots from the nearby projects, a spate of violence that has left three young men from the projects dead.
 Some community leaders and elected officials say the violence is sparked by an escalating conflict turf war between gangs at several of the housing projects.
 ''This is a gang war between housing projects,'' said Councilman James Sanders Jr., who has met with the police and community leaders.
 The unrest has also worried officials at the Benjamin-Beechwood company, which is building the Arverne development. The 117-acre development stretches into low-income, primarily black neighborhoods that include the Ocean Bay Houses, a public housing complex formerly known as the Edgemere Houses, and the Hammel Houses, which abut the western edge of the development.
 Though the Rockaways were once a popular beach resort, the expanse of trash-strewn lots that overlook pristine beaches has remained undeveloped for decades. It is premium oceanfront real estate accessible to Manhattan, but it is also a low-income area with few amenities and high crime rates. These are challenges the developer counts on overcoming in building two-family oceanfront homes costing up to $1 million. 
 A company official, Gerry Romski, said that police officials from the 100th Precinct assured him that extra police units had been brought in to help patrol the projects and that ''the situation was under control.''
 ''These seem to be isolated incidents limited to the housing projects, the Hammels and Edgemere Houses,'' Mr. Romski said. ''We have not been impacted in any way. We've increased the security guards around our buildings, and there have been no incidents.'' 
 The shootings, which received meager attention in the news media, have not affected the brisk sales of the units, he said. Roughly 500 of the planned 2,300 units are completed, he said, and most of those are occupied.
 Eric Rasmussen, 26, a city firefighter, recently moved into the Coral House, an apartment building that is part of the Arverne development. It overlooks Building 10 of the Hammel project, the site of one of the shootings. ''You definitely hear gunshots over there pretty regularly,'' Mr. Rasmussen said. ''But I don't consider it dangerous.''
 Mr. Sanders calls the violence and the ensuing response by developers -- initial panic, then relief that it did not affect their development -- a microcosm of ''exactly what is wrong here in the Rockaways.''
 Mr. Sanders contends that development officials are ''trying to build a self-contained city'' while ignoring the surrounding community and its ills: unemployment, gangs, guns, drugs and troubled schools.
 ''We're going to be stuck with a tale of two cities,'' Mr. Sanders said. ''They're creating the conditions for a perfect storm of racial discontent and possibly more violence.
 ''This situation cannot be dealt with by simply increasing security and police and arresting and imprisoning more young people.'' 
 Community leaders have long complained that the Rockaways have been a dumping ground for the city's poor. The residents of the housing projects, an overwhelming majority of them black, have few nearby job opportunities, social and youth and parolee services. They complain of being isolated on the peninsula.
 Mr. Sanders said the recent violence stemmed from turf battles between gang members at the Ocean Bay Houses, the Hammel Houses and the Redfern Houses, which are farther east, in Far Rockaway.
 On Nov. 27, Christopher Glenn, 16, of the Ocean Bay Houses, was shot and killed. On Dec. 15, another teenager, Cedric Smalls, 18, was fatally shot in front of Building 10 of the Hammel Houses. Four days later, Laton Spurgeon, 25, an Ocean Bay resident, was killed. 
 Last week, Jamel Bryant, 17, who the police say is a Bloods street gang member with a street name of Psycho, was arrested at the Ocean Bay Houses after firing eight bullets at police officers, the department said.
 Mr. Smalls was one of 11 children of Cynthia Young and had moved with six of his siblings from the Hammel Houses into the apartment of his grandmother, Algia Young, 71, a block away. His grandmother said Cedric kept hanging out with his friends in the project, but he denied being in a gang.
 ''I used to check his backpack and go through his pockets every night to see if he was up to anything,'' she said. ''He was a good kid.''
 She looked out her window toward the Arverne development and said, ''How they going to build that thing when they can't even take care of the community now?''
 But Mr. Romski said the development had good relations with its neighbors and would benefit the rest of the Rockaways by bringing jobs, shopping and recreational facilities.
 He said the development would bridge communities by serving as a link between poorer black areas of Far Rockaway and wealthier white sections such as Breezy Point, Neponsit and Belle Harbor. Arverne by the Sea is attracting many retailers, he said, and a new Y.M.C.A. center on the property will be open to outside residents.
 ''This project is going to pull up the rest of the community,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gang fights have plagued the Hammel public housing project, which abuts the upscale Arverne by the Sea development in the Rockaways. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)Map of Queens highlighting Arverne by the Sea development area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); BEACHES (90%); GANGS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); CRIME RATES (87%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); FAMILY (74%); RESORTS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%) Housing; Area Planning and Renewal; Gangs; Condominiums; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Benjamin-Beechwood Llc

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon; James Jr (Councilman) Sanders

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Arverne (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



153 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: As Prices Rise, Housing Groups Face the Need To Alter Tactics

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
Much of the rebirth of New York City neighborhoods in recent years can be traced to a force that many New Yorkers barely know exists: a sprawling network of community-development corporations and other homegrown nonprofit groups, which developed some 100,000 moderately priced apartments out of the ashes and abandonment of places like the South Bronx, central Brooklyn and parts of Harlem. 
 Now those neighborhoods are flourishing; private developers are back, and rents are rising. The city has exhausted its supply of properties taken in tax foreclosure, which were passed on to nonprofits to make into apartments that people of modest means could afford. As a result, the country's largest network of community development organizations is at a crossroads: The groups can retool themselves or fade away.
''The question is, what are the groups going to be doing over the next five years?'' said John Warren, first deputy commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''The number of groups doing development is by necessity going to be smaller; there isn't that much land available, public or private, for the large-scale program we ran in the past.'' 
 The shakeout comes at a time when the Bloomberg administration has embarked upon what it calls ''the largest affordable-housing plan in the country's history,'' promising to create or preserve 165,000 units of lower-cost housing by 2013. As city officials seek inventive ways to generate inexpensive housing in a high-priced market, the future of this proven engine for low-priced housing development is unclear.
 Some groups have already entered into joint ventures with private developers, marrying their neighborhood knowledge and connections to the private developer's equity and expertise. Some have broadened their geographic boundaries in search of land. Some are likely to merge or be swallowed up. Others have diversified into areas like job training, youth services and economic development.
 Mary Spink, executive director of the Lower East Side People's Mutual Housing Association, a group that has renovated or built several dozen rental buildings in lower Manhattan since 1990, is now courting aging landlords in the neighborhood, hoping to use her local roots to persuade them to sell to the association or bequeath buildings to the association in their wills.
 ''It's a hard sell,'' Ms. Spink said.
 Elsewhere in the country, community development groups in cities including Boston, Cleveland and Seattle have begun extending their activities beyond their traditional focus on housing. A recent report by the Urban Institute found that some have moved into activities like helping neighborhood businesses line up financing and working with employers to bring welfare recipients into the labor market.
 ''The terrain has changed so much,'' said Thomas A. Bledsoe, president of the Housing Partnership Network, a Boston-based alliance of regional nonprofit housing organizations that are much larger than the community development organizations. ''The affordability problem has gotten much bigger. Rather than being a redevelopment problem exclusively, it has grown into a more widespread affordability gap that affects middle-class communities.''
 There are now at least 60 community development corporations and other nonprofits involved with housing development in New York City. The oldest grew out of federal antipoverty programs in the 1960s; later came church-based groups like the Abyssinian Development Corporation in Harlem and neighborhood-based organizations that sprang up initially to address specific local issues.
 Many of them flourished in the late 1980s and early 1990s under Mayor Edward I. Koch's $5 billion, 10-year housing plan, which offered properties taken in tax foreclosure for sale to nonprofits to create low-cost housing. Two national groups, the Local Initiatives Support Corporation and Enterprise Community Partners, have worked closely with many of the local groups, providing capital, technical expertise and training.
 Through that system, nonprofits bought city-owned properties for as little as $1 and received city funding as well as support and financing from L.I.S.C.or Enterprise, using the federal low-income-housing tax credit program. That financing included developers' fees of thousands of dollars per apartment -- money that enabled the community development corporations to stay afloat.
 ''In the early stages of the redevelopment of these communities, the anchor in these communities was the community-based organizations,'' said William R. Frey, executive vice president of Enterprise, who started its New York office in 1987. ''They were the only entities that did not abandon these neighborhoods. They really were a critical engine behind the rebuilding.''
 The Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation, in the northwest Bronx, was founded in 1980, at a time when arson and abandonment were eroding neighborhoods in the borough. Tenants in buildings that had been abandoned by their owners needed help managing the buildings. The group now manages, owns or works with 75 buildings in a half-dozen neighborhoods; it also operates a shelter.
 The Lower East Side People's Mutual Housing Association has a $2 million operations budget, an office staff of nine, and 15 superintendents and porters. Ms. Spink, a former heroin addict who says she served three years in state prison in the early 1970s on charges involving drugs and guns, recently received the Andrew Heiskell Community Renaissance Award from Enterprise at its annual fund-raising gala.
 Some groups, however, ran into trouble. The Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a South Bronx group, came under investigation by the state attorney general's office over questions about its management and financial practices. Others lost properties through foreclosure or closed down after turning over their buildings to bigger and better managed nonprofits.
 Now, there is widespread agreement that some groups will be unable to continue to develop housing in the future. They will not be able to compete with private developers to cover the rising cost of land; and they will lack the expertise to navigate the increasingly complex world of housing finance. 
 Those groups in a position to continue developing are being forced to become more entrepreneurial and creative.
 Walter Blenman, a former community organizer who runs Beulah Housing Development Fund Company, a group in the Morrisania and Crotona neighborhoods in the South Bronx, said he is going to have to focus on fund-raising. His last two projects were joint ventures with a private developer, under which his group gets a share of the developer's fee and the developer increases his chances of getting tax credits by allying himself with a nonprofit.
 ''We had to purchase the actual vacant lot,'' Mr. Blenman said, reflecting on the irony that the success of groups like his in spurring neighborhood revival is now working against them. ''It was private land. We had never anticipated having that issue. The flip side is we did our job well. People are investing in these communities. But now we suffer the brunt of our success.''
 John Reilly, executive director of the Fordham Bedford group, said he had applied for a $20 million loan from the $200 million New York Acquisition Fund, a new city program aimed at enabling nonprofits to compete for land in the private market. The group, which would use the money to buy six buildings it hopes to renovate, must put up equity of its own -- a step that some smaller nonprofits would be unable to take.
 ''I wouldn't say it's a crisis-- but it's difficult,'' said Mr. Blenman, whose group is relatively small, with a staff of four and an annual operating budget of $350,000 that in the past came mostly from developer's fees. ''There will be some attrition. There'll probably be some merging along the way. If all you're doing is developing, it might get to a point where you're going to have to shut that part of your operation down.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Spink of the Lower East Side People's Mutual Housing Association. Her group is among the nonprofits struggling with rising property costs in once-blighted areas. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); FORECLOSURE (75%); HISTORY (67%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (66%); JOINT VENTURES (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Foreclosures; Housing

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



154 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: January 7, 2007

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	13	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	2	2	6	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.		 	 	 	3	3	4	NEXT, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) The author of ''Jurassic Park'' describes a not-too-distant future when genetic engineering runs amok.		 	 	 	4	4	8	DEAR JOHN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.99.) An unlikely romance between a soldier and an idealistic young woman is tested in the aftermath of 9/11.		 	 	 	5	5	3	HANNIBAL RISING, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) The childhood and adolescence of Hannibal Lecter shed light on how he became ''death's prodigy.''		 	 	 	6	6	4	TREASURE OF KHAN, by Clive Cussler and Dirk Cussler. (Putnam, $27.95.) In his 19th adventure, Dirk Pitt confronts a murderous Mongolian tycoon who manipulates the oil market and knows the secret of Genghis Khan .		 	 	 	7	7	4	BROTHER ODD, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) With his ability to see the spirits of the dead, Odd Thomas, a character in two previous novels by Koontz, heads off a catastrophe at a monastery .		 	 	 	8	9	9	LISEY'S STORY, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $28.) A widow's journey through grief after the death of her husband, a famous novelist with terrible memories.		 	 	 	9	10	7	WILD FIRE, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner, $26.99.) Detective John Corey and his wife, an F.B.I. agent, help to foil a nuclear plot against the United States.		 	 	 	10	11	3	THE BOLEYN INHERITANCE, by Philippa Gregory. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) Politics and treachery in the court of Henry VIII, narrated by three women, two of them his sometime wives.		 	 	 	11	12	6	NATURE GIRL, by Carl Hiaasen. (Knopf, $25.95.) A single mother takes revenge on her lecherous ex-boss and an annoying telemarketer in the Florida Everglades.		 	 	 	12	13	6	SANTA CRUISE, by Mary Higgins Clark and Carol Higgins Clark. (Scribner, $22.) Passengers on a Christmas cruise for charity, including an amateur sleuth, manage to foil two escaping felons.		 	 	 	13		6	H.R.H., by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) An American-educated European princess faces unexpected challenges when she works at an African Red Cross camp.		 	 	 	14*	14	5	THE SHAPE SHIFTER, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Lt. Joe Leaphorn, a tribal detective, tracks down an antique Navajo rug with a complicated history.		 	 	 	15	8	2	MISTRAL'S KISS, by Laurell K. Hamilton. (Ballantine, $23.95.) After Meredith Gentry gives up her job as a p.i. to assume her duties as a faerie princess, she must prove her fertility through sex with her bodyguards.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	10	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	2	2	11	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	3	3	62	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	4	4	13	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	5	5	5	PALESTINE. PEACE NOT APARTHEID, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The former president calls for revitalizing the peace process.		 	 	 	6	6	21	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	7	7	10	I LIKE YOU, by Amy Sedaris. (Warner, $27.99.) A wacky approach to entertaining from the actress and playwright.		 	 	 	8	11	85	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	9	9	14	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	10	8	90	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	11	12	10	THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A memoir of growing up in mid-America at midcentury by the author of ''A Short History of Nearly Everything.''		 	 	 	12	10	20	MAYFLOWER, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	13	14	10	THE MR. AND MRS. HAPPY HANDBOOK, by Steve Doocy. (Morrow, $23.95.) Humorous observations on marriage and family life.		 	 	 	14*	15	6	U2 BY U2, by Bono, the Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr. with Neil McCormick. (HarperCollins, $39.95.) Photographs, documents and extensive interviews with members of the legendary band.		 	 	 	15	13	13	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third ''Bush at War'' volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes a dysfunctional administration's inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Dec. 23, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestMOTHERS AND SONS: Stories, by Colm Toibin. (Scribner, $24.) In this collection by the author of ''The Master,'' families are not so much reassuring and warm as they are settings for secrets, suspicion and missed connections.
 LET THE NORTHERN LIGHTS ERASE YOUR NAME, by Vendela Veda. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $23.95.) A young woman searches for the truth about her parentage amid the snow and ice of Lapland in this bleakly comic yet sad tale of a child's futile struggle to be loved.
 TALES OF THE OUT & THE GONE, by Amiri Baraka. (Akashic, paper, $14.95.) A poet and provocateur, Baraka swings from satire to science fiction to linguistic games in stories enjoyable more for the journey than the destination.
 CAESAR: Life of a Colossus, by Adrian Goldsworthy. (Yale University, $35.) An exciting portrait not only of Caesar -- dictator, dandy, priest and much more -- but of the society in which he lived.
 RINGSIDE: A Treasury of Boxing Reportage, by Budd Schulberg. (Ivan R. Dee, $27.50.) Articles from a member of the old guild of boxing scribes that revive greats like Rocky Marciano and Ali.
 SOMEWHERE: The Life of Jerome Robbins, by Amanda Vaill. (Broadway, $40.) A fresh look at the ambitious yet desperately insecure young man who became a renowned choreographer. 
 KOCKROACH, by Tyler Knox. (William Morrow/HarperCollins, $23.95.) Kafka's man-to-bug ''Metamorphosis'' is reversed in this debut novel.
 THE TRIUMPH OF MODERNISM: The Art World, 1987-2005, by Hilton Kramer. (Ivan R. Dee, $27.50.) Arresting and perceptive judgments displaying Kramer's Modernist tastes.
 A ROYAL AFFAIR: George III and His Scandalous Siblings, by Stella Tillyard. (Random House, $26.95.) The American revolution wasn't the only problem facing King George III, as this lively account of the rotten behavior of his unruly brothers and sisters shows. 
 ALLIGATOR, by Lisa Moore. (Black Cat, paper, $13.) The imagined lives of a group of Newfoundlanders who are seized by bad impulses.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MURDER (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); FELONIES (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CHRISTMAS (60%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: MITCH ALBOM (73%); STEPHEN KING (58%); JAMES PATTERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



155 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Capitalist Punishment

BYLINE: By ALLAN SLOAN. 
Allan Sloan is Wall Street editor of Newsweek.

 BODY:
On ''The Wealth of Nations''
 By P. J. O'Rourke.
 242 pp. Atlantic Monthly Press. $21.95.
Before we had radio, telephones, television, the Internet and iPods, we had books. Long books. Complicated books. Books that got read, their length and complexity notwithstanding, because before talk shows and chat rooms, what else was there to do?
 Back then, people like Adam Smith wrote long, long, long volumes like ''The Wealth of Nations,'' which revolutionized economic thought and theory when it was published in 1776. Smith's treatise, as transformational in its own way as the American Revolution, established the intellectual foundation of capitalism, free markets and individual choice, which are taken as givens in American life the same way that life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness are. 
 Today, however, almost no one other than the obsessed (or the assigned) is likely to read Smith's book, which runs more than 900 pages; the author's convoluted prose makes it seem even longer than that. 
 So the free market in books has produced Smith-lite: P. J. O'Rourke channeling Adam Smith in a work titled ''On 'The Wealth of Nations.' '' Think of it as a hardcover blog, in which O'Rourke cites Smith's essential points, and riffs while preaching Smithian doctrine. 
 For instance, when O'Rourke discusses one of Smith's passions, free trade, he notes that ''at my house I see a 'Made in China' label on everything but the kids and the dogs. And I'm not sure about the kids. They have brown eyes and small noses.'' This opus is part of a series its publisher calls Books That Changed the World, a description to which we should append, as O'Rourke says, the further title ''Works Which Let's Admit You'll Never Read the Whole Of.'' Due soon are two other oft-cited but rarely-read-in-full classics: The Koran and Darwin's ''Origin of Species.'' It's a very clever, very market-driven thought: getting to know the classics without having to read them. 
 The 1937 Modern Library edition of Smith's work, which O'Rourke cites as his text and I borrowed from my local public library, runs 903 pages, not counting introductions and indexes. Those pages are in small type. Make that very small type. 
 O'Rourke's book, by contrast, runs to fewer than 200 pages before appendixes and notes, and has a typeface and layout suitable for modern eyes. And unlike Smith, O'Rourke is a wonderful stylist. Even if you disagree with his conservative political and economic views, as I sometimes do, you've got to admire his facility with words. 
 Consider the following passage, in which O'Rourke parodies Smith's style while explaining why readers aren't storming bookstores to buy ''The Wealth of Nations'': ''Pretty soon Smith gets enmeshed in clarifications, intellectually caught out, Dagwood-like, carrying his shoes up the stairs of exegesis at 3 a.m., expounding his head off, while that vexed and querulous spouse, the reader, stands with arms crossed and slipper tapping on the second-floor landing of comprehension.'' Add one more phrase, and that sentence would snap in two of its own weight. Which is, of course, the point. 
 Before we proceed, a confession. I've been a business writer since 1969, I specialize in unearthing journalistic nuggets buried in lengthy financial documents that even lawyers find dull -- and I've never been able to get more than 50 pages into Adam Smith. For several years, I took ''The Wealth of Nations'' with me on summer vacation, vowing that this time I'd finish it. Alas, I never came close. 
 But over the years, I've read introductions to the book and commentaries about it, listened to discussions of its principles and have even cited some of its points in my own articles. As with the Bible or ''Moby-Dick,'' you don't have to be familiar with the entire work in order to grasp its essence.
 Smith's thesis, which still resonates today, is that setting people free to pursue their own self-interest produces a collective result far superior to what you get if you try to impose political or religious diktats. Free people allowed to make free choices in free markets will satisfy their needs (and society's) far better than any government can. Finally, Smith believed passionately in free trade, both within countries and between them. He felt that allowing people and countries to specialize and to trade freely would produce enormous wealth, because freeing people and nations to do what they do best will produce vastly more wealth than if everyone strives for self-sufficiency.
 Now, let's reduce this theory to microeconomic reality. I can go to my local hardware store, and for $1.79 (plus sales tax), I can purchase a pound of eight-penny nails manufactured in China, thousands of miles from my home. It would take me forever and a day to manufacture my own nails. Instead, I get paid to write articles, which is my specialty, and I can buy a pound of nails for the economic equivalent of a small amount of my time. The store owner, who specializes in helping people like me who'd rather get cheerfulness and good service than go to Home Depot, can use her profit to buy a copy of The New York Times, which helps give the paper the money to pay me for writing about O'Rourke writing about Smith writing about what makes nations wealthy. See? Isn't that simple?
 This all works out fine for O'Rourke and me and whoever is running the nail-making machine in China; he or she is presumably better off doing that than being a peasant farmer or an unemployed urbanite. However, my ability to purchase cheap China-made nails is unlikely to have worked out well for the people who once made nails in the United States. This is Adam Smith's famous hand of the market at work: it pats specialists like O'Rourke and me on the head, while it gives unemployed blue-collar workers in the Midwest the middle finger. Maybe as a society, the United States saves money by exporting manufacturing jobs and importing so many manufactured goods -- but I still have trouble believing that it's good for us in the long run. 
 Unlike many free-market devotees, O'Rourke and Smith don't confuse self-interest with greed: ''A recurring lesson in 'The Wealth of Nations' is that we shouldn't get greedy,'' O'Rourke writes. Good for them, because while it may seem a subtle point, self-interest and greed are antithetical to each other. 
 Consider Enron, where cooking the corporate books inflated the stock price, making some book-cookers hugely wealthy. For a while. Ultimately, the scheme came undone, the greedy book-cookers suffered jail sentences, capitalism got a well-deserved black eye. Greed wasn't good -- and it sure wasn't smart. 
 I could do without some of O'Rourke's gratuitous insults of various people, almost all of whom seem to be liberals. Despite this peccadillo -- some people might say because of it -- this book is well worth reading. You'll pick up a few good lines, you'll see a primo stylist at work. And you'll see why Adam Smith is so often quoted but so rarely read.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A woodcut from the 19th century depicts Adam Smith and the Industrial Revolution. (Photo by Culver Pictures)
 (Photo by Susana Raab)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); LIBRARIES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); CHAT ROOMS (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); WRITERS (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (72%); EVOLUTION THEORY (70%); CONSERVATISM (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (89%) Allan Sloan; P J O'Rourke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



156 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Puts On a Show, And It's Playing for Keeps

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
MORE than ever this year, the Detroit automakers are taking a page from those old Mickey Rooney-Judy Garland musicals: facing disaster, the plucky youngsters decorated the barn and put on a show to save the day.
 For Detroit, Cobo Center stands in for the old barn, with officials supporting a nearly $1 billion expansion plan to make it more convention-friendly.
And the 2007 North American International Auto Show is Detroit's chance -- not last gasp, certainly, but increasingly desperate -- to show that it has the heart and the talent to stage a comeback and save the jobs of its dwindling auto-industry work force. 
 The show's razzle-dazzle starts today with media previews that continue through Tuesday; the show opens to the public next Saturday and runs through Jan. 21. 
 Automakers from around the world will introduce more than 50 cars and trucks at the event, which remains the pre-eminent auto show in North America. General Motors, Ford and the Chrysler Group must hope that their shiny designs can somehow recapture customers lost to imports.
 Sounding a bit like a Wall Street analyst, Brian Pannebecker, an assembly worker at Ford's Sterling Axle plant in Sterling Heights, Mich., said this year's show might be more important than any in memory. ''There's a lot riding on the new models that will be hitting the showroom,'' he said in a phone interview. ''Our industry is struggling right now, but the show is a chance to get a fresh start.''
 As always, those struggles hit especially hard in Michigan. Roughly half of Ford's 75,000 North American workers have accepted offers of buyouts or early retirement. At General Motors, about 35,000 hourly workers, a third of the North American total, have been shown the door. 
 Analysts forecast a slight dip in American auto sales this year. With foreign brands continuing to gain market share, the Detroit-based companies are fighting over a smaller slice of a shrinking pie. 
 Certainly, the local industry's future seemed brighter in 1899, when Detroit's first car dealer, a former bicycle salesman, William Metzger, held a show that included African big-game trophies and equally exotic cars that ran not on gasoline, but on steam and electricity. Today, more than a century later, General Motors will unveil an electric concept car, the Chevrolet Volt, which has created the most buzz in advance of the show. G.M. says the Volt, a plug-in hybrid, could deliver the equivalent of 150 miles a gallon. The Volt thus promises -- at least in theory, given that it could not be produced without a leap in battery technology -- three times the mileage of a Toyota Prius. [Page 2.]
 These cars will be among the other highlights of the show:
 Revamped Chrysler and Dodge minivans offering new flexibility with second-row seats that swivel to face the third row -- with a removable table in between.
 The 2008 Ford Focus compact car and a sleek Ford design study called the Interceptor. Ford's Lincoln division will show the MKR luxury sport sedan, and its Jaguar subsidiary will feature the C-XF, a precursor of the S-Type's replacement. 
 The 2008 Malibu, Chevrolet's latest challenge to the Toyota Camry. Honda will preview the next generation of its competing Accord, with a two-door concept.
 The second-generation CTS, replacing the sedan that kicked off Cadillac's revival.
 The Smart Fortwo, a Mercedes-built microcar that will take on the Mini Cooper in North America in 2008.
 Convertibles including the latest BMW 3 Series, with a retracting hardtop; the Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe; the Mercedes Concept Ocean Drive, a four-door convertible based on the large S600 sedan; and a Chevrolet Camaro convertible concept car. 
 Small car-based utility wagons from Volvo (XC60) and Nissan (Rogue). Hyundai will present a larger wagon, the Veracruz, aimed at the Honda Pilot. 
 Relatively few new sport utilities, compared with recent years. Still, Porsche will unveil the next-generation Cayenne, and Land Rover will introduce the smaller LR2 to fill the spot once occupied by the Freelander. Jeep will show its diesel-driven Trailhawk concept.
 New sports cars including Toyota's 400-horsepower FT-HS hybrid and an Acura that could replace the NSX supercar. Lexus previews its IS-F sport sedan.
 The Chrysler Nassau concept car, a less costly take on the Mercedes CLS, a sedan with coupelike styling.
 While the Detroit event remains North America's most prestigious auto show, it faces new competition from Los Angeles, which has rescheduled its show to fall several weeks earlier, out of Detroit's shadow. Los Angeles has already supplanted Detroit as the locus of American car culture, since California is easily the nation's largest market -- particularly for imports, exotics and luxury cars -- and since trends inevitably start on the West Coast.
 In part to bolster the Detroit show's status, local officials are hoping to add 270,000 square feet of exhibition space to Cobo Center (and demolish the adjoining Cobo Arena, where the Detroit Pistons played before moving 35 miles north to the Palace of Auburn Hills). 
 But the future of Cobo Center is far from the biggest crisis for the city and its all-encompassing industry. Less than a year ago, as Detroit played host to the Super Bowl, news coverage tended to portray Detroit as a city on the rise, focusing on the monuments of urban renewal -- a new football stadium here, a gambling casino there. Little attention was paid to the abandoned buildings downtown or the neglected neighborhoods that make up much of the city.
 As if Detroit wasn't suffering enough, this is likely to be the year when Toyota does the equivalent of a touchdown dance on Detroit's home field: the company seems assured of passing G.M. in 2007 as the world's largest automaker. Today at the auto show, Toyota will show the Tundra CrewMax, an oversize-cab version of the Texas-built pickup that poses a threat to the last market segment that Detroit still dominates.
 The show is expected to pump more than $540 million into a local economy that could use a lift, according to David Sowerby, chief market analyst at Loomis Sayles.
 Attendance topped 750,000 for last year's show, and Mr. Pannebecker, the Ford worker -- he recently turned down a buyout offer -- plans to be at this one. He has his eye on the Ford Edge utility wagon, but is also dreaming about using his employee discount on luxury models from Ford's Volvo or Land Rover subsidiaries. 
 While acknowledging the automaker's challenges, he added that recent Fords, including the F-150, Mustang, Fusion and Edge, had been well received. His prescription? Local carmakers need to churn out more of these real-world machines, rather than fantasy cars that never see the light of day. 
 ''Right now, we need stylish, well-designed, innovative cars that are going to get people excited,'' he said. ''If Detroit doesn't build them, someone else will.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LONG AND LOW -- The Ford Interceptor sedan, a design study.
TABLE FOR FIVE? -- Chrysler van can hold a poker party.
ELECTRIC DREAM -- The Chevrolet Volt, a new type of hybrid electric car. (pg. 1)
ROOF RITES -- Top, glass panels on Chrysler Nassau. Above, open roof of Jeep Trailhawk. Left, Mercedes Ocean Drive convertible.
 SLEEK SEDAN -- The MKR luxury sport sedan is the latest in a long line of concept cars from Ford Motor's Lincoln division. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (64%) Automobiles; Sales; Trade Shows and Fairs; North American International Auto Show; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Cars

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Lawrence Ulrich

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



157 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3856 words

HEADLINE: The Incredibles

BYLINE: By Laura Pappano. 
Laura Pappano is author, with Eileen McDonagh, of ''Playing With the Boys: Separate Is Not Equal in Sports,'' to be published in October by Oxford.

 BODY:
QUIZ yourself:
 One American history course gets at pre-Civil War tensions through primary source readings, including William Lloyd Garrison's editorial from The Liberator in 1831 and Abraham Lincoln's ''House Divided'' speech. A second American history course leans on primary sources, too. Students parse each Supreme Court justice's opinion in the 1857 Dred Scott decision as well as texts of the first and second Lincoln-Douglas debates. Students must also demonstrate knowledge of historic maps.
So which is college and which is high school? Which is the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and which Dalton, the private K-12 school on Manhattan's East Side? If you can't tell, you can see why students who graduate from high-powered high schools experience academic deja vu even at elite colleges and universities. (The first course is M.I.T.'s, the second Dalton's.) 
 ''My first two semesters at Brown, I was shopping for science classes, and I would be in a bio class or a chem class and think, 'I learned this in high school,' '' says Carly Rush, a Brown junior who graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, a public magnet school in Alexandria, Va., where ''you would know your G.P.A. to the fourth digit'' (hers was 3.931).
 Ms. Rush's experience echoes the new reality for high-achieving students: work crazy-hard in high school and cruise in college. In high school, they pile on the college-level Advanced Placement courses, face reading lists that can't realistically be completed and tackle complex, advanced ideas once reserved for undergraduates. ''The high-end students have greatly expanded their preparation and their exposure to the life of the mind and scholarship,'' says John C. Bravman, vice provost for undergraduate education at Stanford. ''This has been a huge change, especially in the last decade.'' 
 In past eras, good high schools provided the educational foundation for an intellectual awakening in college. But for the mostly affluent students in private and competitive public schools -- from T.J. (as Thomas Jefferson is known) to urban intellectual cocoons like Bronx Science and Stuyvesant -- high school has become the defining academic experience. The much-touted leap to higher education has become more of a lateral step, or even a letdown.
 ''Our students find college not as challenging,'' says Temba Maqubela, dean of faculty and assistant head for academics at Phillips Academy, the boarding school in Andover, Mass. Former students have written to him expressing frustration with college courses that are too basic. (Consider this collegiate-sounding offering from Andover's English department: ''Feasts and Fools: The Topos of the Festive Social Gathering.'') Andover alumni tell John Rogers, dean of studies, that college ''is not as difficult as their experience here,'' he says.
 Jeff Zhou, a freshman at M.I.T., for example, would appear to have a killer schedule, with philosophy, physics, chemistry and multivariable calculus. But Mr. Zhou, a lanky water polo player from Buffalo, N.Y., dressed in baggy jeans, a natty black and white zip top and leather flip-flops, sinks into a chair in M.I.T.'s student center and looks sheepish as he pulls his orange spiral chemistry notebook from his backpack. In two weeks, he has taken only four pages of notes. ''Most of the material so far,'' he says, ''for me has been review.''
 ''I'm probably not having as hard a time as I should be,'' says Mr. Zhou, who graduated last spring from Andover having earned 4s and 5s on 10 Advanced Placement tests and completed three years of chemistry, including organic chemistry. At M.I.T., he has time for water polo, Frisbee, surfing (yes, in New England) and even television. ''I've started watching 'The Office' and 'Family Guy,' '' he says. 
 It's not that M.I.T. has eased up. 
 Regina Goldman, a junior at Yale, says the 538 pages of course readings for her upper-level seminar in American studies is less than what she was assigned for ''Constructing America,'' a required history course at Riverdale Country School in the Bronx. ''The workload was absolutely more than I've had to do here,'' says Ms. Goldman, whose typical high school day began with a 6:15 a.m. swim practice and ended about 1 a.m. with homework. 
 The course description for ''Constructing America'' even cautions: ''The demands and content of the course far exceed those of a typical A.P. U.S. history course.'' Ms. Goldman says the class was so difficult that she shied away from history when she got to college. ''I was so scared off because of high school that I thought, 'Oh, my God, I'm at Yale. I can't take history.' '' There was no reason to worry, though. 
 What's happened to high school?
 THERE are currently two national conversations about high school. 
 In September, the Commission on the Future of Higher Education released a report on how ill-prepared high school graduates are for college, citing statistics like this one: 40 percent of college students take remedial courses. Of 1.2 million seniors in the class of 2006 who took the ACT, only 27 percent reached its college-readiness benchmarks in biology, 42 percent in algebra, 53 percent in social science and 69 percent in English composition. The United States secretary of education, Margaret Spellings, has called for accountability testing in high schools. 
 At the other end of the academic spectrum, however, are the stellar students who are doing ever more difficult work at ever younger ages. 
 Most college-educated parents share the suspicion that if they applied today, they would not get into their alma maters. It's not so much that they've forgotten basic trigonometry -- which is cosine? -- as that they likely don't measure up to today's students. Academic accomplishment has become a hallmark of upper-middle-class family culture. (As Regina Goldman's mother says: ''What do you expect for $31,000?'')
 ''I've been a critic of the low end of our preparation,'' observes Michael Kirst, professor at Stanford's School of Education, who has written about the disconnect between high school and college. ''But at the high end, it just gets better and better every decade.'' 
 Robert Zemsky, professor and chairman of the Learning Alliance at the University of Pennsylvania School of Education, sees academically driven youth -- he labels them zoomers -- as bookish versions of athletically driven children who train seriously for a sport from an early age. ''It's the same thing: You have to focus, you have to specialize, you have to excel,'' he says. ''Those kids are told that, one way or the other, over and over again.''
 The debate about how much children can and should do is not new, but several recent books are renewing concerns. In ''The Price of Privilege,'' Madeline Levine, a clinical psychologist in California, describes an ''epidemic among privileged youth'' who are successful academically and socially but inwardly anxious, angry and disconnected. Alexandra Robbins's book, ''The Overachievers: The Secret Lives of Driven Kids,'' chronicles the pressures that drive highly competitive high school students in Bethesda, Md.
 Philip Burns, a 2005 graduate of Harvard-Westlake School in North Hollywood, Calif., and a Brown sophomore, says of his high school experience, ''I would be more apt to compare it to working life.'' The culture of high expectations helped keep him focused, he concedes, ''but that view of what teenage life is like, where you have a lot of time to hang around, not do anything, go out to pizza parlors, go to football games, whatever, we didn't have that. We were too busy.'' Now, he says, ''I'm glad I learned what I learned, but they could have throttled it down a little.'' 
 It doesn't take a genius -- or a precocious high school student -- to understand that ramped-up achievement is tightly connected to ramped-up competition for slots at prestigious colleges. At top high schools, tension about college admissions permeates the atmosphere, and students push themselves to the limit. 
 But with so much college coursework before college, educators say, the academic progression is out of whack. ''We are pushing kids to do so many things to get in, so what do you do when you get in?'' asks Terrel Rhodes, vice president for quality, curriculum and assessment for the Association of American Colleges and Universities, in Washington, D.C. ''If high schools are teaching more and more of what we have been doing the first year in college, what is it college needs to do?'' 
 As they stretch to accommodate students at both ends of the preparation spectrum, universities are grappling with that question: How do you challenge and engage undergraduates? 
 One answer is to focus less on the acquisition of knowledge and more on how it can be furthered. Undergraduates are being offered more research opportunities and interdisciplinary programs, which require them to apply related concepts in different fields. Other efforts connect extracurricular and community service to coursework so students can road-test what they have learned.
 A HIGH SCHOOL'S status is tied to its rigor. The tougher, the better. ''Nobody wants to be the first one to break the cycle,'' says Rita Goldman, upper school principal and college adviser at Germantown Friends School, a private Quaker school in Philadelphia.
 Advanced Placement is no longer the zenith of academic challenge. Now there are ''post-A.P.'' courses, for which a good grade in the A.P. course is the prerequisite. Other schools have scrapped A.P. entirely, arguing that the curriculum is too restrictive; they are creating homegrown courses that are more like college work in tone and depth but may still cover A.P. material so students are positioned for the exam. 
 At Thomas Jefferson, students choose among 14 post-A.P. courses, including a new class on bionanotechnology that studies the relationship between small biological systems and technology. Most telling is that several advanced math courses -- for example, ''Complex Analysis,'' which blends abstract math with practical applications in physics, electrical engineering and fluid modeling -- are taught by Robert Sachs, a math professor and former department chairman at George Mason University. Dr. Sachs uses the same text for some high school and college classes, and says ''Complex Analysis'' covers the same material a college junior or senior would take.
 ''If you ask me, 'Is it like the honors curriculum at M.I.T.?' we're probably real close,'' says Dr. Sachs, who notes that he had the most students ever, 35, enrolled this past semester. The number is particularly impressive because students gain entry to the course by completing a full year of advanced math after A.P. calculus. ''The courses I teach are actually a second year beyond A.P.,'' he says.
 Such high-level offerings, says Nina Pitkin, director of student services at Thomas Jefferson, reflect the fact that a lot more students arrive having completed algebra II and geometry in middle school, though these courses are typically taken in 9th and 10th grades. Some students actually enter ninth grade having taken the A.P. exam in calculus. 
 Of course, there have always been smart kids. But whether out of fear, cultural conditioning or some inherent spark, more adolescents than ever before are emerging from the pack and distinguishing themselves academically. Super-achievers aren't just bright; they crave that distinction.
 A high-level math class at Andover ''is no longer a group of geeks,'' a teacher says. Such classes may include students whose focus is history and international relations.
 ''I have pushed myself as hard as I can here,'' Prateek Kumar, an Andover senior from Albany, N.Y., says between classes on Civil War literature and international relations. ''There have been those nights I am completely stressed because I have two papers due, in English and history, and I have a math test.'' But, he adds, ''I have enjoyed it.'' Mr. Kumar, a top scorer in national math competitions who has discovered a love for history and become editor of the school paper, lives by the credo that school is what you make of it. 
 Such thinking is one reason Peter Watt's Physics 580 is a popular course at Andover. The appeal? It's the accelerated version of A.P. physics that completes the curriculum in two trimesters instead of three. Take a seat in his classroom and it is at once obvious how this happens: Dr. Watt speeds through linear motion equations for projectiles with no resistance, filling multiple blackboards with chalked Greek letters while attracting nary a quizzical look from any of the 18 students seated at the lab table facing him. 
 When he begins a problem involving shooting water from a garden hose at some angle to land on a wall, a student suggests a complication: ''What if you have a fire hose?''
 ''You can't just throw out Newton because you have a fire hose!'' retorts Dr. Watt, who throws up more calculus to explore variations of the hose's spray, including an equation that would foolishly send water directly overhead.
 Dr. Watt's course is fast, fun and all theoretical. He boasts while scanning several blackboards worth of equations that ''there's not a number in sight.'' 
 ''Physicists are lazy,'' he quips. ''Do you know how much energy it takes to put numbers into a calculator?'' 
 Dr. Watt's students are anything but lazy. He has had to turn students away from this course -- last year, only students earning a 5 or a 6 on a 1-to-6 grade scale in Physics 380 could enroll; this year, only those with a 6 got in. He also turns away applicants for his ''post-A.P.'' course on quantum mechanics and relativity, limited to 16. What's more, students take the quantum mechanics in spring of their senior year, when it's too late to impress admissions officers. ''They don't need to burnish their transcripts,'' says Dr. Watt, a Harvard Ph.D. in physics who says the course is what a physics major would take sophomore or junior year. ''They are just voracious.''
 At Andover, enrollments are up significantly over the past five years in all of the most advanced courses. 
 This shift is apparent to William H. Pahlka, director of studies at Riverdale Country School, who was teaching 29 years ago when the school instituted its signature course, ''Integrated Liberal Studies.'' The class, required for all seniors, stretches the definition of survey course, spanning ancient Greece to the early 20th century. Students rotate daily among five teachers covering philosophy, literature and the history of science, music and art. Readings come from a who's who in civilization.
 While students grumble loudly about how difficult the course is -- something Dr. Pahlka dismisses as ''braggadocio'' -- he is struck by how much harder they work than students of a decade ago, even though he believes they are brighter and could get away with working less. Today's students ''fear not being at the top,'' he says, and are hyper-prepared for class, raising the quality of discussions and coursework. 
 ''I am amazed at the drive of students in the independent school world in New York right now,'' he says. ''A lot of kids were able to get through our course years ago by doing very little, faking knowledge.'' Students now, he says, ''are saturated with the details we give them.''
 DAVID OXTOBY, president of Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., is troubled by the trend. He believes that professors can no longer count on high schools to make sure students have fundamentals down cold. ''High schools are trying to imitate college and teach college-type material instead of the high school material they used to teach,'' he says. ''They are now learning the advanced stuff, but not the basic stuff.'' He continues: ''We are finding students who have learned about s-, p- and d-orbitals -- a theoretical concept in chemistry -- but they don't know that chlorine is a gas.''
 Some colleges have been pushing back against A.P.'s, which students rack up hoping to waive entry-level courses. At Stanford, departments are less willing to let students with top A.P. scores (4 or 5) skip courses. As of this fall, says Laura Selznick, a freshman adviser there for 28 years, ''a 5 on A.P. Econ is no longer an express ticket into the economics department.'' Partly this reflects doubt that A.P. classes actually cover college-level material. But also, ''part of it is that students think they know it, but they don't know it all,'' Ms. Selznick says. She insists college academics are different from high school, even if the texts are the same. 
 Dr. Rhodes, of the Association of American Colleges and Universities, concurs. High school-age students are not mature enough to grasp the subtleties of some material, he says. 
 Many colleges frown on letting students skip entry-level courses, even with placement tests, he says. ''Some say, 'You start out at the beginning, even if there is repetition; we want you to get what we're offering the way we're offering it and have our education,' '' he says. In any case, placement tests are ''an imperfect system'' for matching students with course content, he says. Facts and vocabulary may escape students taking the tests; but in class, the material ''all starts coming back,'' he says. ''Very quickly, they get bored, or they see it as a waste of time'' -- although, Dr. Rhodes adds, sometimes students are so burned-out after high school they don't mind repeating material. They can decompress while getting an easy A.
 Katherine Bergeron, dean of the college at Brown, believes the bigger issue is not about sequencing academic content, but getting students to view college as a time for reflection and exploration. It is part of the liberal arts ideal that pre-med students delve into Proust, but college leaders say many top students want to pursue serious challenges in their fields of interest earlier in their college careers. ''The message they get from the admissions process already speaks against that liberal arts ideal,'' says Dr. Bergeron, sitting in her University Hall office overlooking the grassy, tree-lined College Green. She says too many super-achievers have what she calls a ''kind of professionalized attitude toward their education'' as they rush to get to where they're headed next. 
 ''I just sent a letter to the seniors; they got it in their boxes yesterday,'' she says. Her message: Try something different, unexpected. ''Think,'' it urges, ''about the present tense.'' Dr. Bergeron, who assumed her post in July, says her goal is to expand the advising program in the upper classes ''to make it more reflective for students all the way through, make them aware of all the options available.'' 
 As part of a revamping of its undergraduate experience, Stanford has also been working toward more thoughtful guidance. Previously, guiding freshmen was a volunteer job filled mostly by university staff and graduate students; now faculty members are recruited and offered an honorarium. This year, Stanford changed the way students were matched with academic advisers to more pointedly reflect common interests. ''If you come in being a super-duper physicist, you get matched with a physicist,'' Ms. Selznick says. ''If you are a first-generation college student, you are matched with someone who is good at working with first-generation college students.'' 
 To engage underclassmen academically, they are being offered expanded seminar-style classes, independent study and opportunities to do research with faculty members. In the past six years, the number of Stanford undergraduates doing research has risen from 300 to 2,000 a year, according to Dr. Bravman, the vice provost. 
 Other universities, and even liberal arts colleges like Davidson and Swarthmore, have likewise increased undergraduate research opportunities. In labs once the province of graduate students and teachers, undergraduates may find themselves injecting fish eggs with transgenic plasmids to test the technique of marking cells, or analyzing drill samples from the San Andreas fault.
 Russell Fernald, who teaches two 300-student lecture courses in biology at Stanford, says working in labs pushes undergraduates to think about what they know in new ways. ''In the classroom, we don't teach them about the unknown, we teach them about the known,'' he says. ''In the classroom, I could imagine students being bored.'' In the lab, he says, students wrangle with the nature of discovery: ''How do you decide what is worth asking?''
 He also sees value in the collaborative nature of laboratory work. ''They need to learn to be a team, and research is all about that,'' he says. ''They have to identify with the problem, not their particular goals.'' 
 Some high schools, of course, already offer a chance to do research; at Thomas Jefferson, it's required for graduation.
 WHEN Carly Rush, the Brown junior, arrived on campus, she figured she would just keep doing what had made her successful at T.J. She knew, she says, ''how to prioritize your work, how to take a massive quantity of things and handle it.'' Hunkered down in high school high-gear mode, she took her first economics test. She bombed. She scored in the 80s. She called home in tears over her poor beginning. Then the teacher applied a curve, a foreign concept at Thomas Jefferson, where you get what you get. Relative to her econ classmates, it turned out, she was at the top of the class.
 Well-prepared high school graduates arrive on campus with valuable study skills. They know when to do the reading and when to just take notes at the lecture. They can zip off well-conceived papers while classmates who are unprepared for college writing struggle. 
 Ms. Rush had an epiphany: Unlike at T.J., she didn't have to kill herself. So she has followed Dr. Bergeron's playbook of exploration. Instead of cramming, she spends more time on her interests, like politics. ''I wasn't scared to go to the college Democrats meeting because I was confident I could handle my classes,'' she recalls. 
 Wearing a high school ring with a pink birthstone, she zooms around campus, working with an education professor who is studying children's perceptions of learning and cultural differences, organizing events for the Brown Democrats club, tutoring high school students, advising freshmen and being host of a Wednesday-night dessert social in her dorm room.
 Ms. Rush acknowledges the advantages afforded by her high-school preparation, but she is blunt in saying, ''I wouldn't want to do it again.'' She has a 3.9 G.P.A., and when ''shopping period'' rolls around at the start of each semester (students visit classes before deciding which to enroll in), Ms. Rush shops extra hard to make sure she hasn't already had the material. ''The first two days you are taking 10 classes a day,'' she says. ''If you've done Locke before,'' you want to steer clear of a course heavy on 17th-century political philosophy. 
 ''College has been less stressful academically,'' she says, ''but I have poured just as much of myself into it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Education Life section last Sunday about the large percentage of Asian students at the University of California, Berkeley, attributed an erroneous distinction to the state. Hawaii -- not California -- was the first state without a racial majority.
 Also, an article about financial aid for graduate students misstated eligibility for federal PLUS loans. Graduate students may indeed apply for the loans; they became eligible in July 2006.
 And an article about rigorous high schools misstated the student newspaper job held by Prateek Kumar of Phillips Academy, who talked about his challenging courses. Mr. Kumar is deputy managing editor of the Phillipian, not the top editor. (Stephen S. Blackman is the editor in chief.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: COLLEGE MATH? No problem. Suzanne Buckwalter, center, leads two Phillips Academy students, Peter Dignard and Sarah Dewey, through a calculus equation, opposite page. (Photo by C.J. Gunther for The New York Times)(pg. 19)
THE EASY LIFE Carly Rush, right, hunkered down in high school
at Brown, she indulges a passion for politics. (Photo by C.J. Gunther for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 (Photo by C.J. Gunther for The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); GIFTED EDUCATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%) Education and Schools; Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Gifted Students; Special Sections; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%) Commission on the Future of Higher Education

PERSON: Laura Pappano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



158 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: T. Rowe Sticks to Basics And Finds Success Again 

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
WITH the retirement of George A. Roche, its chairman and president, at the end of 2006, the last of a generation of executives at T. Rowe Price Associates has stepped aside, making way for three new leaders. 
 Investors will be forgiven if they failed to notice.
The retirements, like just about everything at T. Rowe Price came with little fanfare. If the departing executives celebrated their company's recent stock performance and its mutual funds' results -- and they had reason to -- they hardly did so in public. 
 Only a few years ago, critics were calling T. Rowe Price a dinosaur, as its stock pickers refused to bet on many of the hottest technology names. As the market spiraled upward, many customers left, and funds shrank. Net flows of investor cash into the company's funds fell by more than 50 percent from the end of 1997 to the end of 1998, according to the Financial Research Corporation in Boston. They fell again by more than half from 1998 to 1999. 
 But T. Rowe Price has come lumbering back. According to Morningstar, the average return of its funds was 9.85 percent, annualized, over the five years ending Nov. 30, edging out rivals like American Funds, Fidelity Investments and Vanguard. 
 With that success has come new customer cash. T. Rowe Price collected nearly $40 billion in net inflows from the beginning of 2002 through October last year, nearly double its amount from 1995 through 1999. At the same time, the company's stock price has been rising, returning a cumulative 155 percent for the five years that ended Dec. 29. That run has been powered by growing earnings, which reached $430.9 million in 2005. 
 Members of the company's executive committee say the firm's success stems from sticking with the principles established by Thomas Rowe Price when he started the firm in 1937: picking solid stocks and putting customers first. ''Mr. Price said, 'If the client succeeds, the firm will succeed,' '' said Edward C. Bernard, the new vice chairman. 
 The firm hasn't always succeeded. Spend a day at Price's headquarters in Baltimore, and you hear repeatedly about the day it hit bottom during the tech boom. It was March 6, 2000, four days before the Nasdaq peaked. That morning, The Wall Street Journal published an article chiding the company for lackluster results, saying, ''The gears of the investing machine that helped make T. Rowe one of the nation's 10 biggest mutual-fund firms have gotten stuck.''
 Mr. Roche, the retired chairman, remembers the office's pall: ''We were lagging and losing business. Our sci-tech fund is excellent, but it really got pummeled. It was up 100 percent in '99, but the average sci-tech fund was up 130.''
 Mary J. Miller, manager of the Tax-Free Income fund and now also director of fixed income, was urging clients to move into her sector, which seemed ready to rise. ''I went to a few and said, 'This would be a great time to increase your exposure to bonds,' '' she said. ''One said: 'Are you crazy? I just made 150 percent on my stock portfolio.' I left with my tail dragging.''
 But with the market's turn, T. Rowe Price clawed back. The T. Rowe Price Equity Income fund, managed by Brian C. Rogers, limped through 1999, returning only 3.8 percent as the market soared. Then, in the bear-market years of 2001 and 2002, he beat both Morningstar's value-fund index and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Today, the Equity Income fund is the company's largest, with $23 billion in assets.
 ''In your career, there are times when you look like a genius and times you look like an idiot, and some of that is beyond your control,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''I knew in 1999 that I wasn't as stupid as I looked, and I knew in 2001 and 2002 that I wasn't that smart.'' 
 Morningstar gives T. Rowe Price a top rating for stewardship of investors' money. It dings it only for not closing bloated funds soon enough. ''Above all else, the thing that characterizes them is a judiciousness,'' said Jeffrey B. Ptak, a Morningstar analyst. ''They don't trend-chase, and they don't roll out gimmicky products that are going to blow up on investors.'' 
 In the early '70s, the company invested mostly in growth stocks. Its founder had been an originator of the growth-investing philosophy. So it stuck with its stock recommendations even as share values climbed to nosebleed levels, then plummeted. ''We took our clients off a cliff because we allowed our belief in growth stocks to become a religion, and we stopped listening to fundamentals,'' said James A. C. Kennedy, the new president and chief executive. That taught staffers at T. Rowe Price to heed factors like earnings and cash flow and to shun momentum investing. 
 A similar cautiousness extends to corporate matters. The succession planning that culminated with Mr. Roche's retirement began in about 2002, when the board identified Mr. Rogers, Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Bernard as its next generation of leaders.
 With the series of retirements and promotions, Mr. Rogers became chairman and chief investment officer, and continues to manage the Equity Income fund. Mr. Bernard, who manages sales and distribution, was tapped to be vice chairman. And Mr. Kennedy, formerly director of equities, rose to president and C.E.O.
 They have spent much of their careers with the company. ''I'm about to hit 19 years, and I'm the new boy,'' Mr. Bernard said. Under their direction, they say, T. Rowe Price will hew to its time-tested ways. 
 But the investment management market, especially for mutual funds, is changing. T. Rowe Price will have to evolve with it, said Matthew J. Snowling, a senior analyst at Friedman Billings Ramsey in Arlington, Va.
 T. Rowe Price depends on the domestic stock market; more than 70 percent of its mutual fund assets are held in domestic equities, according to Morningstar. But Americans who invest are increasingly looking abroad, Mr. Snowling said. What's more, newly wealthy people in China and India want to play the market, too. 
 ''You have to be careful because there's a graveyard full of companies that have tried to expand internationally and failed,'' he said. Since 2000, when T. Rowe Price bought out the share of London-based Robert Fleming Holdings in their international joint venture, the company has been expanding its international investing and distribution. Even so, its biggest foreign fund, T. Rowe Price International Stock, remains a laggard, failing to match the average return for its Morningstar category last year or for the five years ending Dec. 29. 
 Mr. Roche said the company had begun to shore up the fund. ''We're strengthening the personnel, expanding the research and putting in more portfolio managers,'' he said. 
 T. Rowe Price will also need to beef up its fixed-income capabilities, said Mr. Ptak of Morningstar. As baby boomers retire, they are likely to shift assets into bonds. When that happens, they will be wooed by bond giants like Pimco and Western Asset Management, which enjoy huge economies of scale.
 THUS T. Rowe Price will probably need to make acquisitions to expand its bond base, Mr. Snowling said. The company has $1.2 billion in cash and marketable securities and no debt but has been reluctant to spend its hoard or to borrow. 
 ''I'm never going to argue that a strong balance sheet is a bad thing,'' he said. ''But they could be a little more aggressive in their capital management.'' 
 Here, too, managers at T. Rowe Price said that they were addressing the concern -- cautiously, of course. Mr. Bernard pointed out that early last year, the company acquired the mutual fund division of Caterpillar, the construction-equipment maker. He added that it would continue to grab good deals as they arose. ''I wouldn't say we feel a compelling mandate to acquire,'' he said. ''Our primary interest is in acquiring assets that can get merged into our mutual funds,'' rather than entire fund groups. 
 Buying other fund companies and allowing them to continue to operate autonomously would risk diluting T. Rowe Price's corporate culture, Mr. Bernard said. That is also why T. Rowe Price has not sallied into hedge funds, he said. 
 Hedge funds typically receive a flat fee of 2 percent of assets plus 20 percent of profits, whereas T. Rowe Price takes only a flat management fee; the expense ratio on its domestic stock funds averages 0.79 percent, compared with a sector average of 1.41 percent, according to Morningstar. 
 ''If we take this one little group and say we're going to have you run funds based on 2 and 20, we've totally upset the apple cart,'' Mr. Bernard said. ''Now everybody in the equity group wants to go down the hall and work with them.'' 
 Another thing that won't change with the new management is T. Rowe Price's old-fashioned style of investing, Mr. Bernard said. Hedge-fund managers can flaunt the latest strategies, but the people in Baltimore remain content with the button-down basics.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward C. Bernard, left, is T. Rowe's vice chairman. James A. C. Kennedy is the chief executive and Brian C. Rogers is chairman. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); FARM LABOR (71%) Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (58%); FMR CORP (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: T Rowe Price Financial Services

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: JAMES KENNEDY (73%) George A Rowe; Edward C Bernard; A C Kennedy; Brian C Rogers; Tim Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



159 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: So Many Millions, So Little Body Armor

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE current state of corporate ethics, and the governmental and public policy response to that state, are so bewildering, so upsetting, so impossible to understand except in terms of the famous phrase, ''Follow the money,'' that it makes my poor old head spin.
 Start with Steven P. Jobs. This worthy gentleman is one of the most successful entrepreneurs in history. Avatar of Apple, potentate of Pixar, recalled to be the savior of Apple, he is a genius at technology and finance. He's been well rewarded for it, with a fortune in the hundreds of millions, if not billions.
Apparently that was not quite enough. Recent reporting tells that in the period from about 1998 to about 2002, Mr. Jobs helped to choose the dates for some stock option grants in the form of backdating.
 That's where you -- if you're a big wheel at a corporation -- get to choose the date and price of the options after you have seen when the yearly low was and seen how much recipients could make starting the options from times earlier on the calendar than the dates when the awards were actually awarded. It's sort of like getting to pick lottery numbers after the winning numbers are drawn -- and your stockholders supply the prize money. 
 Not only did Mr. Jobs benefit after his company did that with millions of stock options for his own self, but company records showed that the board (of which he is a member, of course) ratified that grant at a special meeting in October 2001. The problem is, an internal investigation has now concluded that there was no such meeting on that date. It simply never happened. It was totally made up. 
 That is, the options were awarded in a highly unethical way and then condoned -- if I may use that term -- in a way that would make John Dillinger blush.
 Wait. It gets much better. After all of this happened, a special subcommittee of the Apple directors was convened, led by that pillar of rectitude who is trying to save us from the evil oil companies and coal miners, none other than the founder of the Internet himself, Al Gore, and by a colleague who is another bedrock of rectitude, Jerome B. York, late of trying to save General Motors for the benefit of Kirk Kerkorian. 
 The special committee found that despite the fact that the date of Mr. Jobs's stock options was chosen ex post facto, that it was ratified by that made-up meeting, and that he later traded in those options, and some others, for five million shares of restricted stock (then worth more than $70 million), he was innocent of any wrongdoing and the board still had full confidence in him. Yes. I am not making this up.
 Now there is an investigation into backdating of options at Pixar, the animation studio, when Mr. Jobs was running it, although the evidence so far is that the backdating did not help him directly. We'll see. It pays to have some skepticism in these matters.
 So now add Apple and Pixar to about 130 other large companies where backdating -- which is wildly unethical self-dealing, with powerful tax and accounting issues and possible criminal implications -- has been found. And note that in all the main cases, backdating was not found until much later by some very smart academic sleuths and gifted newspaper reporters. 
 And now let's look at the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, a k a the Paulson committee. It's the group of academic and finance worthies that was sponsored informally by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and studied the harsh burdens under which the corporate pooh-bahs and Wall Street chieftains labored. 
 Recently, that group, along with many others of the hired intelligentsia of the management class, came out with their report that said that the Sarbanes-Oxley law was too strict on corporate America, and was hurting Wall Street by making companies register and do their initial public stock offerings in Europe. (Quelle horreur!) 
 In particular, Sarbanes-Oxley was supposedly too strict in requiring audits of internal controls. This was supposedly a painful, unnecessary burden in a world where a corporate boss's word is his bond and the word of any corporate boss is worth more than all the bonds in Christendom. And the Sarbanes-Oxley section on internal controls was supposedly cruelly tormenting Wall Street to the detriment of the whole world of decent people.
 But hold on. Isn't backdating precisely an example of a failure of internal controls? Haven't we just found out that internal controls are far too lax, not too strict? For the Paulson committee to say that we need less stringency in corporate audits is a bit like the War Department saying we needed less watchfulness at our naval bases after Dec. 7, 1941. It's also a bit like Willie Sutton saying it would be good as a matter of national financial policy to have fewer guards at banks.
 The amazing thing is that intelligent people are taking it seriously, this matter of rolling back corporate controls to make life even easier for misbehaving corporate wheeler-dealer types. What's more amazing is that anyone is even thinking of rolling back corporate controls to make life richer for Wall Street. 
 The Street just finished paying out tens of billions in bonuses -- even as the Army and Marines are so starved for money that untrained soldiers are sent to Iraq because there is not enough equipment to properly train them first. 
 There is an acute shortage of Ferraris because of those bonuses, and there is a long waiting list for Lurssen yachts. But somehow, we are supposed to feel bad for Wall Street and for the class that has wrought so much mischief at the corporate helm, most recently with backdating. 
 But no committees of powerful corporate leaders and academicians are at work computing the moral and mortal costs of starving the Army and Marines of the equipment and training they need to do their jobs with minimal loss of life. What a world -- where smart people worry about helping those suffering from a shortage of Ferraris, but hardly anyone outside the Pentagon notices the shortage of lifesaving equipment for the soldiers fighting our wars.
 WHERE is the outcry? Where is the rage? It's not a partisan thing. The Democrats are just as complaisant about this as the Republicans. Have the leaders of both parties and the boys at the research groups been so thoroughly blinded -- or corrupted -- by the plutocrats that no one will say ''boo'' about it?
 I guess so. My letters tell me that there are a lot of angry people out there, and some of them have children in Iraq and wonder why all this looting is allowed while their sons and daughters are at war for a law-abiding and just America. 
 I'm no longer sure what to tell them, except that it's all about money, and if you don't get it, you don't get it. And it's deeply sad.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BUSINESS ETHICS (89%); ETHICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); LOTTERIES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); COAL MINING (50%) Corporations; Law and Legislation; Accounting and Accountants; United States Armament and Defense; Corporations

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (79%); AL GORE (58%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%) Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



160 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 5076 words

HEADLINE: The Scold

BYLINE: By Michael Sokolove. 
Michael Sokolove, a contributing writer for the magazine, is working on a book about women's sports after Title IX and the high rate of injuries among young female athletes.

 BODY:
Dick Pound, chairman of the World Anti-Doping Agency and global evangelist for the cause of pure sport, is not, technically, a law-enforcement man, but he thinks like one. He is part romantic, part hard-boiled realist. He hopes for the best from people but is not surprised when he doesn't get it. He believes deeply in the grandeur of sport, less so in the goodness of athletes.
Pound has been WADA's leader since the International Olympic Committee created it in 1999 to ''harmonize'' efforts to clean up the murky underworld of performance enhancement. In theory, he could have limited his concerns to the various Olympic sports, but instead he has also sparred with what he likes to call the ''North American pro leagues,'' including Major League Baseball, whose anti-doping policies he has long characterized as ''a joke.'' His style is all confrontation, all the time, and the bigger the target -- Carl Lewis, Lance Armstrong, the entire U.S. Olympic establishment -- the better. 
 As it happened, the news that the cyclist Floyd Landis had failed a drug test at the Tour de France broke in July, in the midst of a series of interviews I had with Pound in Montreal, where he runs WADA and also holds down more big jobs and positions than would seem humanly possible: partner at a top law firm, chancellor of McGill University, member of the I.O.C. and editor of something called Pound's Tax Case Notes. He belongs, as well, to that bizarre subset of people who write long books as a hobby, eight of them so far. (One that I picked up in an anteroom of his office, a history of his law firm, ran to a door-stopping 559 pages.)
 On this particular day, Pound, who is 64, looked tired. His broad face was drawn, his complexion pasty. He had just returned from China, and his back hurt. Thinking about Landis seemed to enliven him. He spoke of the cyclist as if he were some sleazy perp just collared by the vice squad. ''He was 11 minutes behind or something, and all of the sudden there's this Herculean effort, where he's going up mountains like he's on a goddamn Harley,'' he said. In the 2006 tour, Landis raced in pain while awaiting a hip replacement, went out to an early lead, lost it, then seemed to miraculously regain it. ''It's a great story,'' Pound said. ''Wonderful. But if it seems too good to be true, it probably is.''
 Pound took something like a schoolboy's delight in talking about Landis's lab result, which supposedly showed his testosterone level to be grotesquely above what is typical for most men. Landis has denied taking a prohibited substance and is fighting what could be a two-year ban from cycling. ''I mean, it was 11 to 1!'' Pound said, referring to Landis's reported testosterone-to-epitestosterone ratio, a measure used to identify doping. ''You'd think he'd be violating every virgin within 100 miles. How does he even get on his bicycle?''
 With an annual budget of $22 million, WADA oversees the testing done by the world's sports federations. The agency finances research, credentials a global network of drug-testing laboratories, conducts some of its own drug-testing of athletes and regularly updates its list of banned substances. It puts out a number of publications, among them a magazine called Play True. Its most important accomplishment has been to persuade 191 nations, including the United States, to sign on to its Anti-Doping Code -- which prohibits most of the world's top athletes from taking anything on WADA's list of banned substances and, in the event of violations, generally blocks them from appealing to the legal systems in their home countries. (Appeals are heard by the Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration for Sport.)
 WADA's targets -- drug-taking athletes and their coaches, handlers and chemists -- have plenty of money and science on their side. They invent new compounds or new methods of masking old drugs, and all Pound and his allies can do is try to anticipate their moves and try to catch them. The drugs work remarkably well -- see East German women's track-and-field athletes, circa 1980s, or big-league baseball players, 1990s -- and in ways that often surprise anti-doping authorities.
 Performance enhancement is like any other kind of underground activity: the participants are the only ones who know for sure what they're up to. Anabolic steroids were for weight lifters, home-run hitters and sprinters and would never help an athlete in an endurance event like the Tour de France, right? Yet that's what Landis tested positive for. How that might have helped him climb mountains is unknown -- except, if he took them, by Landis and any enablers. Everybody thought pitchers never used steroids because they value flexibility more than strength. Then baseball started checking for steroids, and about half the positive tests came from pitchers. In university laboratories across the world, and in places like the United States Department of Defense, scientists are dreaming up yet new ways to enhance human beings -- steps that may very well be taken by elite athletes before they are perfected or even considered safe.
 Battling the known and the unknown, and probably outspent and outgunned, Pound has seized the prerogative of the underdog: fight with whatever you've got. Fight fair. Or unfair. His best weapon is his brilliance as a formulator of quotes, his ability to make headlines and call attention to his cause. (He takes great pride in this; one of his books is titled ''High Impact Quotations.'') Pound is not a stereotypical Canadian, if you think of Canadians as reticent, nor is he very lawyerly: he assembles whatever facts he can gather, but when they're not attainable, sometimes just makes them up.
 Take the ruckus he caused when he charged that one-third of players in the National Hockey League, or about seven per team, were using illegal performance enhancers. Sitting in his office, I asked him how he came up with that estimate. He leaned back in his chair and chuckled, completely unabashed to admit that he had just invented it. ''It was pick a number,'' he said. ''So it's 20 percent. Twenty-five percent. Call me a liar.''
 Pound certainly understands that he can be abrasive. What he cannot grasp is how anyone could not comprehend the rightness, the essentiality, of his mission. ''How is the sport real if the athletes are not real?'' he asks. He has heard himself compared to a sheriff in the Wild West, as if that's a bad thing. ''I don't get that. Weren't the sheriffs the good guys?''
 Pound grew up, as he likes to say, in a succession of ''smelly mill towns'' in Canada, wherever his father, an engineer, happened to be working. The last of them, Ocean Falls, 36 hours north of Vancouver, reachable only by boat, had a smaller-than-regulation-size indoor pool and a gifted coach who birthed a succession of great swimmers, the best of them Pound, who by the time he reached McGill University was known as Dick Pound the Swimmer, a man on his way to a sixth-place finish in the 100-meter freestyle at the 1960 Summer Games in Rome and a place of prominence in Montreal and, beyond that, greater Canada.
 Pound will mention his athletic exploits, but usually with a hint of self-deprecation. ''If you want a pointless statistic,'' he said to me at one point, ''I am the last Canadian to reach the final of the 100 freestyle.''
 He passed up a chance at the 1964 Olympics and set out on his career. He is a tax lawyer by trade. His position as chancellor at McGill is largely ceremonial, although it takes up hundreds of hours a year. He was previously president of McGill's alumni association and of its board of governors.
 Kip Cobbett, the managing partner at Stikeman Elliott, Pound's law firm, describes his colleague as almost frighteningly efficient: ''You ask him for a memo on some complicated topic, it's on your desk 15 minutes later, and it's perfect.'' It helps that Pound can so quickly access his opinions. ''He is willing to draw conclusions before other people are willing to draw conclusions,'' Cobbett says. ''That's not a common thing anymore, whether because of caution or political correctness.''
 Pound was first elected to the I.O.C. in 1978, and his quarter-century tenure has been marked by several anomalies -- the most intriguing one his defense, in 1988, of Ben Johnson, the Canadian sprinter who won the 100-meter dash at the Summer Games in Seoul but then tested positive for the steroid stanozolol. Still a decade away from his incarnation as a crusader against performance-enhancing drugs, Pound represented Johnson before the I.O.C.'s medical commission after Johnson's positive test -- a job Pound says was foisted upon him because there was no other lawyer with the Canadian delegation.
 After Johnson assured Pound he was clean, Pound asked him, Could someone have spiked his post-race beer? No, he got his own beer. Anything unusual in the collection of his urine sample? No, nothing. ''Give me some bullets,'' Pound remembers thinking. ''I've got nothing to say.'' But there wasn't much of a defense to offer. Johnson was stripped of his medal, and it was awarded to the second-place finisher, the American Carl Lewis.
 On my first visit to see Pound in Montreal, I asked him about Lewis, arguably the greatest athlete the United States has ever produced. A long jumper and a sprinter, Lewis won nine gold medals in four Summer Games between 1984 and 1996. ''Carl and I are fairly cheery,'' Pound said. ''I've never gone after him, other than to say, 'Here are some things that did happen.' ''
 Pound has argued that Lewis should not have been allowed to run in Seoul should have never been in that 100 final with Ben Johnson because Lewis tested positive for a banned substance at the U.S. Track and Field Trials earlier that summer, a result that American officials disregarded. ''USA Track and Field was, of course, the gold medalist at doing that,'' Pound told me. What Lewis tested positive for, Pound said, ''was a steroid of some sort. A steroid.''
 Pound is at his most ferocious, and sometimes most reckless -- a one-man truth squad -- when looking toward the past. But athletes live in the here and now. They don't like anyone digging into old files and certainly not into old blood or urine samples.
 In 2003, the U.S. Olympic Committee's former director of drug control turned over documents to Sports Illustrated and The Orange County Register that showed Lewis had tested positive in 1988 for banned stimulants found in cold medicine -- not anabolic steroids. Many would consider that a distinction without a difference: testing positive, for whatever banned substance, often brings harsh disciplinary action. But while ephedrine and two other cold-medicine ingredients found in Lewis's system might improve performance at high-enough doses, the U.S.O.C. accepted his explanation that he took them to fight a cold.
 In a telephone interview, Lewis summed up the situation for me: ''The only thing they have on me is Sudafed. A cold medicine. ... If he had any more, it would be provided.''
 At one point, Pound claimed he had documents relating to Lewis's failed tests. ''I have them somewhere,'' he said. ''I wouldn't throw them away.'' But when I asked him before my second visit if he could dig them out, he said he couldn't find them. It didn't seem to bother him any more than acknowledging that his estimate on the percentage of chemically enhanced N.H.L. players was pretty much a wild guess. Pound's words are sort of like darts: he lets them go, accumulates points, then throws some more.
 Pound has also kept up a running battle with another American sports icon, Lance Armstrong, the seven-time Tour de France winner who has fought a seemingly endless series of allegations that he used erythropoietin, or EPO, which increases red-blood-cell production and enhances the flow of oxygen to muscles. Pound has piled on by pointing out what he calls certain ''problematic statistics'' -- including the fact that the next three men who finished behind Armstrong in the 2005 tour, his crowning victory, were all investigated for suspected EPO use and banned from last year's tour.
 Pound leaves it at that. But the implication is clear: Armstrong was riding with a bad crowd, so how could he be clean and win? Pound told me he likes Armstrong, or at least he likes the mythic Lance: ''I like the idea of sports heroes. Nothing I like better.''
 They even talked on the telephone about two years ago, according to Pound, when Armstrong called to defend cycling. Pound recounted their conversation: '' 'Hello, it's Lance Armstrong. I just want to tell you I love my sport.' And I said, 'That's great, Lance, but sometimes there's gotta be tough love.' It was fairly inconsequential, and we left it just short of the Hollywood producer thing -- we'll do lunch.''
 On matters involving Armstrong, Pound adopts a tone of insinuation often mixed with sarcasm. When I asked if he thought Armstrong cheated, Pound replied: ''You've got to be kidding. Why would I get into a lawsuit with Lance? Let him deal with the problems he's created.''
 Armstrong told me he telephoned Pound twice to confront him over his public comments. He also wrote the I.O.C. demanding that Pound -- whom he referred to as ''the quotemeister'' and ''a showboat'' when we spoke -- resign or be removed. Armstrong says he believes Pound and WADA have run roughshod over his and other athletes' rights, and he is not alone in that criticism. An investigative article by The Los Angeles Times in December concluded that the agency is ''a closed, quasi-judicial system without American-style checks and balances.''
 It is not always clear whether critics are objecting to WADA or Pound. The organization's Anti-Doping Code, with its limits on athletes' appeals, can certainly be construed as heavy-handed. But without it, WADA might well be tied up in an array of legal systems, from federal courts in the United States to regional courts in China to, conceivably, courts in small towns in Mongolia or Uzbekistan or wherever some athlete happened to fail a drug test.
 Pound's tendency to go off like a loose cannon is less defensible. Athletes and their representatives are beginning to challenge the legitimacy of WADA itself, rather than just the particulars of the charges against them, and Pound may be fueling that reaction. John Hoberman, a professor of Germanic languages at the University of Texas who writes extensively on issues of athletic doping, credits Pound for aggressively raising the profile of his cause but says that he has been ''fast and loose with historical fact, and with what you can and cannot say with regard to the verifiable level of drug use among elite athletes.''
 Because Pound engages big targets -- and the biggest ones are in the United States -- he has repeatedly had to fend off charges that he is somehow anti-American. ''How could I be?'' he responded when I asked him about this. He pointed out that his wife is from Chicago and that three of their five children attended college in the U.S.
 Then, typically, he fired off another salvo. ''There aren't too many people who are prepared to point the finger at America and say: 'Hey, take off the [expletive] halo. You're just like everybody else.' That's a problem in America. America has a singular ability to delude itself.''
 Pound's biggest role in sport, before joining WADA, is one that can be seen as having helped create the very thing he is now fighting. Pound was the I.O.C. money man. He recognized that Olympic organizers were undervaluing their product and, as chairman of the I.O.C.'s television and marketing committee from 1983 to 2001, he dragged the games into the big-money era by negotiating richer deals with multinationals like Visa, McDonald's, Kodak and Coca-Cola. In 1980, the I.O.C. got about $100 million for its TV rights; for the Beijing Games in 2008, the total will be nearly $2 billion.
 Pound was, as well, a trusted adviser to and protege of Juan Antonio Samaranch, the former I.O.C. president who personally chose him for the WADA post. Samaranch, a minor official in the Fascist regime of the Spanish dictator Francisco Franco and a canny politician within the Olympic movement, appointed Pound in 1999 to lead an internal investigation into bribe-taking and the awarding of the 2002 Winter Games to Salt Lake City. That task almost certainly ended any realistic chance Pound had of succeeding his mentor as president; Pound finished third in the election for the post in 2001.
 Andrew Jennings, a British investigative journalist who has written three books on the International Olympic Committee, told me he believes Pound so valued his place within the I.O.C.'s inner circle that he abided the group's questionable ways of doing business until Samaranch cast him in the role of reformer. ''He's not corrupt,'' Jennings says. ''He's not seedy. He's too classy for that. But Dick sat very happily with this ragbag of European princes and second-rate royalty.''
 Jennings says Pound ''did very well at giving sports away to commercial interests'' and, by making the games vastly bigger and the money available to athletes more plentiful, thereby increased temptation and cheating. ''The sponsor money brought the doping,'' he claims, adding that it also financed the lavish travels and perks of I.O.C. members. Craig Masback, C.E.O. of USA Track and Field and a frequent target of Pound's, says that ''it seems logical that with more money, there is more temptation to make the tragic decision to cheat.'' But he adds that it may be too pat to equate the money and drugs. ''There was plenty of doping before there was a big financial incentive,'' Masback says.
 Pound, not surprisingly, disputes that more money begat more doping. He argues that increased revenues made sport more inclusive by enabling the I.O.C. to make grants to athletic federations in poorer nations. And if the I.O.C. is a jet-setting social club, underwritten by sponsorship money, Pound, by his own and other accounts, has never been a big part of it. While other I.O.C. members hobnobbed at Olympic venues, he says he spent ''18 hours a day in a tent, baby-sitting sponsors.''
 For all his quotability, Pound is not particularly gregarious and can even be socially awkward. ''He's warm,'' says Cobbett, his law partner. ''He's pleasant. He's not aloof. But he's not going to work a room.''
 Pound says that by leading the Salt Lake City probe, he ''saved'' Samaranch and, by extension, preserved the Olympic brand. ''The reason the sponsors didn't bail is because I said we would fix the problem.''
 WADA, of course, is also very much about preserving the Olympic brand. Sponsors want to associate with an idealized, ''Chariots of Fire'' view of sport, not the doped version. Even when Olympic athletes test positive, Pound says, ''it oddly enough adds to the luster of the Olympic brand. Even though we don't always get it right'' -- by this he means the fight for drug-free sport -- ''people understand and respect that we are trying, and that's what separates us from the N.F.L. and N.B.A. and others.''
 WADA is a bureaucratic dynamo -- an organization that in a very short time has extended its tentacles across the globe, spawned regional anti-doping organizations, created the anti-doping code and, mainly through Pound himself, broadcast a strong message that doping is risky. Violators do stand a chance of being discovered and disciplined. The Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative steroids case, which led to the suspension of the elite sprinters Tim Montgomery and Kelli White -- and cast further suspicion on the slugger Barry Bonds -- was first cracked open at a WADA-accredited lab in Los Angeles.
 In the previous era of doping, until the fall of the Berlin Wall, cheating tended to be sponsored by governments and inspired by nationalism -- most notably in the systemic doping of the East Germans. Current doping is driven more by economics and organized on the Balco model: a loose confederation of athletes and coaches, sometimes representing various nations and sports. Anti-doping officials, Pound among them, assume there are other Balcos out there, hidden from view.
 What constitutes unfair enhancement for the purpose of athletic achievement -- as opposed to, say, the latest kinds of training -- is clearer to Pound than it is to some others. He says he can discern (if not always exactly define) what violates ''the spirit of sport.'' He told me at one point: ''It's like they used to say about pornography. You know it when you see it.'' He says ''artificial'' methods should not be introduced into training, and he expresses a deep concern for health: no one, he says, should have to be ''a chemical stockpile'' in order to compete.
 The specificity of WADA's list of banned substances -- hundreds of steroids, stimulants, beta blockers, masking agents and other compounds -- tends to make the whole anti-doping endeavor look tidier than it really is. Weight and endurance training, strictly speaking, enhance performance, yet nearly everyone would agree that they fall within the spirit of sport. But what about scientific approaches to nutrition? And all those vitamins and nutritional supplements that athletes gobble by the handful -- believing (or hoping) that they are performance enhancers?
 Or to consider an example that WADA has recently struggled with -- what about simulated high-altitude training that boosts the production of red blood cells? Some athletes are lucky enough to live at altitude; for years, others with the means to do so have traveled to train at altitude; and lately, a small number have taken to living and sleeping in hermetically sealed tents or rooms that simulate high-altitude conditions, what WADA calls ''artificially induced hypoxic chambers.'' Pound has been troubled by them, considering them, at best, ''tacky.'' The WADA executive board declined for now to bar them at its most recent meeting last fall, deciding instead to circulate a letter warning of possible health hazards associated with the chambers.
 Pound, though, only rarely gets bogged down in the loftier questions. He's a man who identifies a challenge and puts his head down and works. There's a tax code. There can be a drug code.
 ''Who is not braced for the first renegade human clone?'' Joel Garreau asks in his book ''Radical Evolution.'' Garreau argues that the next frontier of technology will be aimed inward, toward human enhancement. This is Pound's real challenge: The future. Pound's wife, Julie Keith, a well-regarded short-story writer, says that her husband likes to ''fix things'' -- but you can't fix what is not yet clearly in view, least of all with bluster and high-impact quotes.
 Garreau's book sounds like really far-out science fiction, but lots of cutting-edge medicine -- from cochlear implants that allow the deaf to hear to retinal implants that allow the blind to see to nervous-system hookups that allow people to directly control their artificial limbs -- would have seemed just as far-fetched a few decades ago. Given such advances, a current Defense Department research projectto build ''the metabolically dominant soldier,'' a warrior who can ''run at Olympic sprint speeds for 15 minutes on one breath of air,'' hardly seems preposterous. The same goes for a ''pain vaccine'' that will block pain and inflammation for 30 days or drugs that will allow soldiers to fight for a week without sleep and still make good decisions.
 Much of the research Garreau uncovered is from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, a longtime incubator of innovation, including a precursor of the Internet. One Darpa researcher refers to himself as a ''combat zoologist.'' Another, the leader of the metabolically enhanced soldier project, told Garreau, ''My measure of success for this is that the I.O.C. bans everything that we do.''
 The references to athletics and the I.O.C. are telling. The ultimate in physical enhancement is to go beyond known current limits. Elite athletes are acutely aware of those limits, because they bump up against them daily. At some point no amount of training makes them stronger, faster or better able to endure long distances.
 The most advanced medical research, including gene therapy, exists to help severely compromised people, those with Parkinson's, diabetes, various muscle-wasting diseases; but the physical elites, those trying to push beyond the upper limits, often seem as desperate for them. Still, it's hard to disagree with Ramez Naam, who argues in ''More Than Human'' that researchers should not put brakes on their work because some might misuse it. ''Scientists cannot draw a clear line between healing and enhancing,'' Naam writes.
 About four years ago, Pound became aware that a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, H. Lee Sweeney, was changing the genetic structure of mice to create supermice with greatly enhanced musculature, which is not lost as they age. The research is intended to help those with muscular dystrophy, but Sweeney has received e-mail messages and calls from weight lifters, bodybuilders and other athletes and coaches -- in one case, from the coach of a high-school wrestling team -- wanting to know how to adapt the technology for performance enhancement.
 When Sweeney and other scientists told Pound it was possible -- although not demonstrably safe -- for an enterprising chemist to appropriate the published research for athletic purposes, Pound challenged the researchers to create a test that would detect this particular form of gene doping. I heard Pound, in a speech at Princeton last fall, tell an audience that such a test was ''close.'' Sweeney, who consults for WADA's gene-doping panel, agrees that progress is being made but says that Pound may be overstating matters.
 ''They're giving out grants, and those doing the work are making progress on showing what kind of changes would occur,'' Sweeney explains. ''But none of this convinced me that these changes are not what you would see with training. All of the tests have been done on sedentary animals. That's not the right study. You need an animal that is in training.''
 The scientists Pound expects to devise tests for any new enhancements are, generally, the same ones doing the research on them -- for purposes of curing the sick. They're pretty busy. Pound is never going to have more than a small part of their attention.
 And even as WADA tries to figure out how to detect whether athletes are using the latest methods of performance enhancement, ever newer research is coming on line -- not off-in-the-future stuff from Darpa, but knowledge and techniques that can be applied now. For example, Sweeney says he is currently experimenting with a myostatin inhibitor in dogs; because myostatin puts the brakes on IGF-1, a protein that promotes muscle growth, when you inhibit or turn off the myostatin, the IGF-1 continues to do its work, and dogs get bigger.
 Sweeney says he hopes this science might one day help those with muscle-wasting diseases, but it is not close to being considered safe for human use. Still, it could probably be adapted for athletic enhancement even more easily than the experiments that created the supermice. And the research has all been published. ''I don't think WADA considers that anyone could be doing this yet, but they sell the scientific community short if they assume that,'' Sweeney told me. ''There are serious heart risks associated with this, but athletes, as far as I can tell, don't care.''
 Sport everywhere is broken down into divisions: you play in the big leagues or Triple A. With Manchester United in the English Premier League or three rungs down with Notts County. John Hoberman, the University of Texas professor and the author of ''Testosterone Dreams,'' is among a growing number of thinkers who envision, at some point, another way of dividing up sport: the doped and the undoped. He's not looking forward to it; he just says it's inevitable.
 ''The whole reality of elite sport is that it's vulnerable to doping,'' Hoberman says. ''The N.F.L. is a ticking time bomb. That's been a Pound topic. He's been a scold to Selig,'' meaning Bud Selig, Major League Baseball's commissioner. ''Good for him. We need that. But I would say to him: the people who you want to idealize are not cooperating in very large numbers. And you know what? When you look at the historical record, they were never terribly interested in the first place.''
 What Hoberman, who calls himself a doping historian, means is that athletes have always looked for any edge -- going back to the ancient Greeks, who ate mushrooms and dried figs to gain a perceived energy boost before competition. Cyclists, as recently as a half-century ago, were using strychnine, which is a stimulant as well as a poison. Victor Conte, the Balco mastermind, has said that the sprinter Tim Montgomery told him that if he could win an Olympic gold medal, ''it wouldn't matter if I died right on the other side of the finish line.''
 Pound knows that some people believe he is naively engaged in an unwinnable fight; he's just not sure what they expect him to do. ''What do you say?'' he responds. ''It's too complicated, too big, so let's just give up?'' To simply permit unfettered doping, he says, is not a solution. ''You could look at them as just gladiators, these big cartoon characters, but that's somebody's kid out there. What if your kid had to do that just to play high-school ball?''
 Pound told a freshman seminar at Princeton that WADA was ''created under Swiss law.'' I don't think the students cared too much about that, but it is the sort of thing that's important to Pound: rules, and a structure that encodes them. Maybe what Pound has put in place -- WADA, the anti-doping code, the long list of banned substances -- will hold for only another decade or two. But he is determined to keep up the fight for as long as possible.
 ''Here's the deal,'' he says. ''The shot-put weighs this much. The race is so many laps long. You can't hollow out your shot-put and make it 12 pounds instead of 16. You don't start before the gun. Run 11 laps instead of 12. And part of the deal is don't use these drugs. It's kind of an affirmation when you show up at the starting line. You are making an affirmation that you are playing the game the way it is supposed to be played.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Jennifer Karady)
 Amazing Race: Ben Johnson (right) of Canada outruns Carl Lewis (middle) to 100-meter gold in Seoul in 1988. Pound had to defend Johnson after he tested positive for a steroid because Pound was the only lawyer in the Canadian delegation. The gold medal was eventually awarded to Lewis. (Photograph By Gary Kemper/A.P.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); DRUG TESTING (78%); STEROIDS (78%); SPORTS (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BASEBALL (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%) Olympic Games; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Steroids; Biographical Information; Doping (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%) World Anti-Doping Agency

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (79%) Michael Sokolove; Dick Pound

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (69%) QUEBEC, CANADA (69%) CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



161 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: GUNG HO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: The Invasion of the Alpha Male Democrat

BYLINE: By RYAN LIZZA. 
Ryan Lizza is a senior editor at The New Republic and a correspondent for GQ.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
NANCY PELOSI'S carefully crafted introduction to the American people last week seemed to reinforce some stereotypes of the so-called mommy party. On the day she made history as the first woman to be elected speaker, she appeared on the House floor, surrounded by children and bedecked in pearls. 
 But even as this nurturing image dominated the news, the swearing-in ceremony on Thursday was notable for another milestone in gender politics: the return of the Alpha Male Democrat.
The members of this new faction, which helped the Democrats expand into majority status, stand out not for their ideology or racial background but for their carefully cultivated masculinity. 
 ''As much as the policy positions is the background and character of these Democrats,'' says John Lapp, the former executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee who helped recruit this new breed of candidate. ''So we went to C.I.A. agents, F.B.I. agents, N.F.L. quarterbacks, sheriffs, Iraq war vets. These are red-blooded Americans who are tough.''
 Mr. Lapp even coined a term to describe these manly -- and they are all men -- pols: ''the Macho Dems.''
 The return of Democratic manliness was no accident; it was a carefully planned strategy. But now that the Macho Dems are walking the halls of Congress, it remains to be seen whether they will create as many problems for Democrats as they solved. After all, these new Democrats have heterodox political views that could complicate Democratic caucus politics, and their success may raise uncomfortable questions for those Democrats who don't pass the new macho test.
 The architects of this strategy, Representative Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Lapp's boss, as well as Senator Charles Schumer, are well-known political pit bulls. Mr. Emanuel won his Congressional seat by navigating the ward politics of Chicago's old-fashioned political machine.
 He is missing half of one finger -- his aides refer to him as ''nine point five'' -- and swears enough to make a Soprano blush. Senator Schumer is so aggressive and demanding that he has a reputation as one of the most difficult people in the Senate to work for. Both men, who have been elevated to leadership positions in the new Congress, are throwbacks to the era when tough-guy Democrats were urban ethnic politicians, like Dan Rostenkowski and Tip O'Neill. 
 When Mr. Emanuel and Mr. Schumer set out to find candidates to run in the red states and districts of the 2006 electoral battleground they sought their own rural and exurban doppelgangers. 
 The fruits of those efforts arrived in Washington last week. Take, for example, three House freshman from Pennsylvania. Patrick Murphy, the son of a Philadelphia police officer, was a West Point professor, a prosecutor and an Iraq war veteran before he ran for Congress. Chris Carney was a lieutenant commander in the Navy Reserves. Joe Sestak is a former Navy vice admiral whose last job was commanding 15,000 sailors and dozens of ships and aircraft for operations in Afghanistan. 
 ''Joe Sestak -- that guy's muscular!'' says Mr. Lapp. ''He's a vice admiral. I've told him to spend a lot of time going on the national talk shows. He can really do a service changing the mold and the way the Democratic Party is viewed.''
 Other House members include Minnesota's Tim Walz, an Army national guardsman; Brad Ellsworth, an Indiana sheriff; and Heath Shuler, a former N.F.L. quarterback from North Carolina.
 Biography, it can be argued, counts more than substance. For example, Mr. Shuler's Web site includes more information about his high-school football career (106 touchdowns) than his post-football career (selling real estate).
 In the Senate, Mr. Schumer's tough-guy caucus includes Jon Tester, a husky Montana farmer with a buzz-cut, and Jim Webb, the former marine from Virginia who turned his son's combat boots into an effective electoral prop. Upon arriving in Washington, he promptly picked a fight with President Bush at a White House reception.
 The roots of the Macho Dem strategy can be found in the party's 2004 losses when Democrats decided that their post-9/11 candidates needed to exude strength above all else.
 ''Presidential politics, but also the rest of national political leadership, has a lot to do with the understandable desire of voters for leadership, strength, clarity and sureness,'' says Jim Jordan, John Kerry's first presidential campaign manager. ''Frankly, in the post-Vietnam era, Democrats have come up short by those measures too frequently.''
 Adds the Democratic strategist James Carville, ''The fact that the party has come across as less -- I don't want to say less masculine -- but certainly less aggressive than Republicans, is true.''
 But there may be serious risks for the Democrats' embrace of an electoral philosophy based less on bold ideas than on bold biography. For one, the Macho Dem strategy is inherently pro-male. And Democrats have historically relied on a gender gap advantage -- with women. If they tilt in the other direction, does that gap disappear?
 As Tom Edsall recently pointed out in a guest column on The New York Times Op-Ed page, despite Ms. Pelosi's historic ascension, 2006 was a bad year for Democratic women. Nine of the party's top 11 male House candidates won, while only 1 of the organization's top 11 female candidates prevailed. 
 It's a paradoxical conclusion to an election that was followed by Ms. Pelosi's ascension to speaker and Hillary Clinton's dominance of presidential political predictions. Just as these female faces are solidifying the perception of the Democrats as the party of women -- the gender gap still exists -- the Macho Dems are adding a dash of testosterone, which could add some cultural frisson to the party. 
 Sure, some Macho Dems express support for, say, abortion rights but one gets the sense that ensuring Roe's preservation may not be one of their highest priorities in coming to the Senate. It's hard to imagine them at the next Emily's List fund-raiser. 
 Ideologically, many Macho Dems are culturally conservative and economically liberal -- making them odd ducks in a party that since the Clinton years has been defined by cultural liberalism and Rubinomics. 
 ''You can argue it will cause more problems because there will be more cross currents,'' says Mr. Carville. ''A lot of these guys are economically pretty populist -- Webb and Tester -- more so than the Clintonites like myself.''
 Then again, President Bush and the Iraq war serve as unifying force for Democrats that may militate against these cross currents.
 More interesting may be the implications of the Macho Dem theory for the 2008 presidential campaign. If a party measures its candidates by whether they wear a uniform, carry a gun or simply look tough -- does it invite the public and press to apply that standard to all the party's leaders? 
 The leading presidential candidates -- Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton -- may not score that high on the Alpha meter. And in the past, when Democrats believed their candidate was a true hero -- well, just remember how the Republican Party was able to portray John Kerry. It could be a warning sign for Democrats: live by the Macho Dem creed, die by it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Schumer, Jon Tester, Heath Shuler, Jim Webb, Brad Ellsworth and Rahm Emanuel. (Photo by Stephen Kroninger)(pg. 1)
 The Flip Side -- Nancy Pelosi, House speaker. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); IRAQ WAR (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MEN (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); VETERANS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%) Senate (US) ; House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (89%); NANCY PELOSI (89%); BRAD ELLSWORTH (72%); JIM WEBB (57%); HEATH SHULER (57%); JON TESTER (57%) Ryan Lizza; Rahm (Rep) Emanuel; Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (64%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



162 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Spitzer's Valley

BYLINE: By Ned Sullivan. 
Ned Sullivan, a former environmental commissioner of Maine, is the president of Scenic Hudson, an environmental organization.

DATELINE: Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THE Hudson Valley is the perfect launching pad for the top priorities of reforming state and local government and revitalizing cities and towns in New York that Gov. Eliot Spitzer outlined in his ''one New York'' State of the State address last week.
Why? Because the Hudson Valley is where the governor's vision of economic growth in harmony with protected environmental resources stands the best chance of early results. As a National Heritage Area with world-class cultural, scenic and natural resources, it is also where the stakes are highest and failure is not an option. So here are some things Mr. Spitzer should consider:

HUDSON VALLEY CITIES Many cities, like Yonkers, Newburgh, Beacon, Kingston and Poughkeepsie, share the same economic challenges as upstate municipalities like Buffalo and Rochester. These include contaminated former industrial sites, the out-migration of young people and salaries up to 25 percent below the national average. The governor's proposals for catalyzing an ''innovation economy'' should begin here. 
 His promise of property-tax relief and increased investment in schools and community needs like roads and waste-water treatment plants will boost tourist-based economic development on these cities' waterfronts and spur commerce in their downtowns. The Hudson Valley Economic Development Corporation, a regional marketing organization, is already attracting ''green'' businesses to the valley because of the beauty and quality of life in the region. The corporation is eager to begin working with the new administration. 
 Governor Spitzer demanded that increased state aid to cities be dependent on better fiscal management. He also pledged to provide zoning incentives to encourage construction of affordable housing. He should require zoning that concentrates development in urban and town centers, protecting waterfronts as a public and natural resource and curbing the sprawling development that increases traffic and air pollution.

SMART TRANSPORTATION Mr. Spitzer raised hopes -- and concerns -- by pledging to ''break through the political gridlock'' to complete transportation projects, including the replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge and the expansion of Stewart Airport as the fourth major downstate airport. Both projects could yield benefits if they are planned and implemented with the ''smart growth'' principles the governor says are essential ''to alleviate environmental degradation, instead of contributing to it.''
 Particularly in the case of Stewart Airport, the governor's ability to work with regional development and environmental constituencies will be crucial in stemming the sprawl around the airport. We cannot allow a drastic increase in jet traffic along the river to destroy the very foundation of the region's future prosperity, its beauty and tranquillity. 

GLOBAL WARMING To tackle global climate change and reduce energy costs, Governor Spitzer pledged to expand clean energy generating capacity and to implement aggressive conservation measures, starting with state energy consumption. This will be important to achieving another of his campaign pledges: closing Indian Point.
 Smart development will also be critical in reducing greenhouse gases. On Beacon's waterfront, my group, Scenic Hudson, and a private developer are moving ahead on plans for the country's ''greenest'' hotel and conference center. This project will use new energy technologies while preserving two-thirds of the 25-acre property as public parkland. Governor Spitzer should establish waterfront-development standards for the entire Hudson Valley based on this environmentally sensitive, energy-efficient design pioneered with community input. 

LAND PRESERVATION Mr. Spitzer has pledged to increase the Environmental Protection Fund with proceeds from an expanded bottle bill to help protect farmland and open space across the state. The Hudson Valley contains an estimated 100,000 acres of ''legacy landscapes'' that should be preserved as we approach the 400th anniversary of Henry Hudson's sail up the river.
 By leading the effort to protect the state's priceless heritage, the governor will ensure that the land that binds us together and makes us ''one New York'' will be the basis for prosperity for generations to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ZONING (89%); CITIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (87%); AIRPORTS (85%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); SUBURBS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX RELIEF (67%); LAND DEGRADATION (67%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%) Transportation; Weather; Global Warming; Land Use Policies

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Ned Sullivan; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Hudson Valley (NY) ; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



163 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Chile Copper Windfall Forces Hard Choices on Spending

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile 

 BODY:
President Michelle Bachelet is learning the hard way that it really is possible to have too much of a good thing. Record prices for copper, Chile's main export, have given her government a multibillion-dollar windfall but have also produced unexpected economic side effects and set off a sharp political debate about how to use the money.
 Within Ms. Bachelet's center-left coalition -- mainly her Socialist Party and the Christian Democratic Party -- pressure has been growing to apply the bonanza to the ''equality agenda'' she has promised. But the president and her cabinet have been hesitant to do anything that may undermine Chile's reputation for cautious fiscal management. 
 Chile must apply the unanticipated revenue only ''in an ethically and economically sound manner,'' Paulina Veloso, Ms. Bachelet's chief of staff, said in an interview. ''You can't spend a fortuitous bonanza the way you can permanent income.'' 
 During the campaign that preceded her election as president last January, Ms. Bachelet, a former minister of health and of defense, pledged that her government would be even more committed to social investment than those of her predecessors. Voters took her at her word, and when signs of change had not appeared by midyear, hundreds of thousands of students took to the streets to demand an immediate overhaul of the education system.
 ''Chileans are patient, but one should never abuse that patience,'' said Ricardo Ffrench-Davis, a prominent economist who wrote ''Economic Reforms in Chile: From Dictatorship to Democracy.'' ''Ours is a country of great inequalities, and the perception of Chileans is that we need more social justice,'' he said.
 Driven largely by China's seemingly insatiable demand for metals of all kinds, the price of copper quadrupled from 2003 through 2006, reaching record levels at midyear before falling to just under $3 a pound at year's end. That increase helped Chile build its foreign reserves and buttress its budget surplus, which in turn have been factors in the rise in the value of the peso against the dollar.
 But that has made Chile's exports relatively more expensive and less competitive, generating complaints from producers of wine, fruit and other items. Concerns that inflation could be fueled have also emerged, with suggestions -- unpopular with consumers and businesspeople alike -- that interest rates be raised to prevent an inflationary surge.
 To reduce pressure on the peso, some of the windfall has been deposited in banks abroad, in foreign currencies. Some has been designated for an ''economic and social stabilization fund'' that ''you draw on when you need it,'' said Andres Velasco, the minister of finance. 
 Part of the windfall is to help reform the privatized pension system. But Mr. Velasco argues that Chile should maintain discipline and not overspend or assume that the high copper price is permanent.
 Unlike other Latin American countries, Chile ''spends practically nothing on interest payments, because we have been able to reduce public debt'' and instead use the savings for social programs, Mr. Velasco. ''This is very important and speaks of the payoff for fiscal responsibility.''
 But that is not what many members of Congress want to hear. The Christian Democratic Party, for example, organized a commission that concluded that part of the price increase was in fact permanent and recommended more state investment in projects such as rural water supply, sports facilities in poor areas and programs for the elderly.
 ''This can be done,'' said Mr. Ffrench-Davis, who was a member of the commission. ''The Chilean economy continues functioning as if the price of copper were still 99 cents a pound. We need a stimulus. We don't need to go into debt. We have the dollars; we're awash in dollars.''
 The situation has been further complicated by a law that guarantees the armed forces 10 percent of government revenues from copper. The statute has been on the books for decades, but it was made more generous during the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet and has not been amended since democracy was restored in 1990.
 Since the start of the decade, the Chilean military has gone on a buying spree, spending $2.8 billion for weapons, ostensibly to modernize old equipment. The purchases, which have led to expressions of alarm in neighboring Peru and Bolivia, include 10 Lockheed Martin F-16 fighter planes acquired from the United States, eight frigates, two submarines and, most recently, 118 Leopard IIA4 tanks from Germany. 
 Two years ago, a study done by three international economic research bodies concluded that Chile spent more per capita on the military than any other country in Latin America: $90.88 per inhabitant. According to recent estimates here, the copper law will result in the armed forces receiving nearly an additional $1 billion in 2007, which must be used for ''military acquisitions.''
 In contrast, General Pinochet did not build a single hospital during the 17 years he was in power, Maria Soledad Barria, the minister of health, said. The democratic governments that have governed Chile since his fall have tried, with notable success, to compensate for those and similar lapses in areas like housing, education and pensions. But as the income of Chileans has risen, so have their expectations.
 The copper law's largess to an institution with an abysmal human rights record has infuriated ''the penguins,'' as the young students are called in a reference to their uniforms. In the June strike that paralyzed the educational system, student leaders posted a placard on the Ministry of Education building here that listed all of the ''toys'' the armed forces have been able to acquire and then asked, ''What about us?''
 The minister of defense, Vivianne Blanlot, has been leading a commission to study ways to begin phasing out the law, and Congress is expected to tackle the subject in 2007. 
 ''There are going to be changes,'' said Ms. Veloso, the presidential aide, but whether they will let more money be salted away or diverted to social investment is unclear.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Students demanded free bus rides and other benefits during a strike and protests in Santiago last summer. (Photo by Ian Salas/European Pressphoto Agency)
 An air force officer at the arrival of F-16 fighters from the United States. (Photo by Roberto Candia/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COPPER MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); RIOTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (57%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Copper, Brass and Bronze; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mines and Mining; Demonstrations and Riots; Education and Schools; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

PERSON: MICHELLE BACHELET (92%) Larry Rohter; Michelle (Pres) Bachelet

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (92%) CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Chile; Chile

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



164 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2043 words

HEADLINE: '08 Candidacy Could Shake Up Giuliani's Firm

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and RUSS BUETTNER

 BODY:
In the time since Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani left office in 2001, he has told friends and political allies that he would consider running for the presidency in 2008, and that he wanted to use the interim to create a consulting business that would both burnish and broaden his image as a leader and security expert.
 And in the first months of that new firm, Giuliani Partners, there seemed no end to its ambitions: Mr. Giuliani saw safety and security, law, crime-fighting, and real estate as lucrative areas of expertise, his aides say. They quickly announced ventures with Ernst & Young, Nextel and Mexico; discussed trading services for equity; and envisioned finding such success that the business could, without doubt, survive his departure one day.
Now, as Mr. Giuliani contemplates that bid for the presidency, the firm -- about which little has been publicly known -- says it is dependably profitable and attractively positioned. But, at the same time, its aspirations have been modestly realized: a collection of boutiques more than an empire, and one whose long-term survival if Mr. Giuliani departs is very much a matter of debate both in-house and out. 
 The partnership comprises three distinct businesses that have had varying degrees of success in maintaining the steep trajectory of the early days.
 The largest unit, in terms of employees and possibly revenue, is Giuliani Capital Advisors, an investment bank with 100 employees that Mr. Giuliani did not create, but rather was bought by Giuliani Partners from Ernst & Young for $9.8 million in 2004.
 The investment firm's revenues were down in 2005, the first year Mr. Giuliani owned it, though its chief executive said the downturn began in the months prior to the sale and has since been reversed. Last year, eight of its original 22 managing directors left for other jobs. Despite its name, Mr. Giuliani is minimally involved.
 Giuliani Partners, the 60-person consulting arm, is Mr. Giuliani's main focus, and it has had to scale back its reach somewhat in recent years to accommodate his political travel and lucrative speaking offers. It had a base of 20 major clients in early 2004, while now it has 12 to 15: a deliberate limit, firm partners say, because all of the clients seek and receive personal time with Mr. Giuliani.
 The third and smallest unit is Giuliani Security and Safety, another consultancy that former Police Commissioner Bernard B. Kerik once ran (as Giuliani-Kerik L.L.C.) until he resigned at the end of 2004 amid personal problems that caused him to withdraw his name from consideration to be President Bush's secretary of homeland security. The Kerik debacle forced an overhaul of the unit, which Giuliani aides now hail as a small but fast-growing practice, with 10 employees led by a respected former F.B.I. official.
 Change is a constant in all sorts of businesses, and Giuliani Partners acknowledges its own set of evolutions. Though it once announced new clients with celebratory press releases, the last such announcement was in November 2004. 
 Partners say their newer clients -- they will not give a number -- have not sought the same level of public exposure for their relationship with Mr. Giuliani.
 But the largest potential change, a Giuliani candidacy, looms larger than all the rest, and the company says it is now deeply engaged with questions about its future. If he does run, executives say, at least some shakeout at the firm is certain.
 ''Obviously as things accelerate, there are going to have to be changes, and we're looking at that,'' said Michael D. Hess, senior managing director of Giuliani Partners.
 Mr. Hess acknowledged that his view had shifted since 2004, when an interviewer asked if the business could survive without Mr. Giuliani. ''Absolutely,'' he said at the time.
 Would he answer the same today? ''I think so,'' he said last week. While Mr. Giuliani is an irreplaceable figure, he said, other executives are also attracting business. ''He is, of course, a draw, people do want to work with him,'' Mr. Hess said of the ex-mayor, ''but on the other side of the coin, we have a very deep bench.'' 
 Yet Mr. Hess acknowledged in an interview that other top executives at the firm, like him and Dennison Young Jr., a partner who was a top mayoral aide to Mr. Giuliani, would most likely join a Giuliani campaign.
 ''I think the answer is yes,'' Mr. Hess said in evaluating that possibility. At that point Mr. Giuliani's spokeswoman, Sunny Mindel, interjected, ''We don't know all these things,'' and Mr. Hess picked up her line of thought.
 ''But no one knows -- that's the study and continuing exploration we have to do,'' Mr. Hess said. ''The substantive people are less likely to be involved in the campaign. We're not terribly political.''
 By ''substantive people,'' he was referring to firm executives who work with clients in areas of expertise; during the interview he included in that group Pasquale J. D'Amuro, the head of Giuliani Security and Safety; Richard J. Sheirer, a senior vice president and the commissioner of emergency management under the former mayor; and Thomas Von Essen, another senior vice president and former city fire commissioner. (At the same time, Mr. Hess did not rule out any of these three or others as possible campaign members.)
 Giuliani Partners is a private company, which makes it difficult to assess its financial health and assets. By one measure of accomplishment, client satisfaction, Giuliani advisers say the company has been an unqualified success, and there is no record of lawsuits or notable public complaints from those who have received services. 
 Jim Steets, a spokesman for Entergy, long a client of Giuliani Partners, said the firm helped revamp its security and emergency response plans and strengthened its relationships with emergency agencies around its five nuclear plants in the Northeast.
 How much Mr. Giuliani and other principals of the firm are earning from the businesses is not public record. But much of Mr. Giuliani's income comes from his outside business interests and includes millions of dollars he earns from speaking appearances around the world and as a partner in a Houston-based law firm, Bracewell & Giuliani. 
 Mr. Hess said Mr. Giuliani's speaking fees are individual earnings and do not represent income for the firm.
 But several Giuliani Partner ventures have not borne all the anticipated fruit.
 In 2003, Bear Stearns Merchant Banking set up a $300 million private equity fund to invest in security-related companies, with advice and profit sharing by Giuliani Partners. But only one investment was made: the $210 million purchase of CamelBak, a Petaluma, Calif., company that makes canteens worn like backpacks. The equity fund put up $100 million of the price, according to The Deal and Forbes.
 Two other relationships were ended after questions emerged in news accounts about the backgrounds and operations of the client.
 Mr. Giuliani's experience as a businessman could be a factor in a presidential race, political analysts say. ''Voters like supporting a businessman who has to meet a payroll, who built a business from scratch and can demonstrate an understanding of the economy,'' said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who has worked for Mr. Giuliani in the past. 
 Mr. Giuliani has said he will decide about a presidential bid early this year, but advisers now say the decision may be up in the air for months. 
 Were he to leave, could Rudy Inc. survive without Rudy? 
 Eric Abrahamson, a professor at Columbia Business School, said survival for a business that loses a key leader can depend on many factors, including the nature of its business and its maturity. He said the departure of a rainmaker could be hardest to survive. 
 ''When you bring in those people, you are bringing them in for their social network,'' said Mr. Abrahamson, who studies the creation and growth of management techniques.
 Giuliani Partners is five years old and operates from the Times Square offices of Ernst & Young, the accounting firm. As a private business, Giuliani Partners is not required to release its clients' names, but some have been announced, and others, Mr. Hess said, wish to remain private. Active clients, Mr. Hess said, include Entergy, Purdue Pharma, and TransCanada Corp. and Shell.
 Neither Mr. Giuliani nor other executives have registered to represent foreign governments in the United States, nor are they lobbyists. Mr. Giuliani also does not hold the type of licenses that are held by the directors of Giuliani Capital Advisors, of which Giuliani Partners is the majority owner.
 The capital firm specializes in bankruptcy consulting, and mergers and acquisitions.
 The partnership's security division, which Mr. D'Amuro took over in 2005, may be the unit most poised for growth. Mr. D'Amuro has traveled to meet with executives in Japan, Qatar, and other nations, often focusing on clients who seek the firm out for advice on how to protect against a terrorist attack. 
 Giuliani Partners recently launched two international offshoots: Giuliani Security and Safety Asia, and Giuliani Compliance Japan, where Mr. Giuliani and other executives speak to businesses there about complying with new conflict-of-interest rules.
 Mr. Hess said he was not concerned that foreign work would somehow tarnish Mr. Giuliani politically. 
 ''We bend over backwards and are very careful about who we do business with, for the most obvious reasons -- from the beginning, Rudy's brand of integrity and ethics always had to be preserved,'' Mr. Hess said.
 Revenues for Giuliani Partners' main consulting or security wings are not available because it is a private company.
 But the third wing of the business, Giuliani Capital Advisors, is required to file annual financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 For calendar 2005, Capital Advisors reported revenues of $48 million, a drop from what the firm had brought in under Ernst & Young. For example, in the 2004 fiscal year, the last full year Ernst & Young owned it, the firm reported revenues of $85 million.
 Steven D. Oesterle, a partner in Giuliani Partners and chairman of the investment bank, said a fairer comparison is to measure the Capital Advisors' performance in the final five months before the sale in December 2004, where it averaged about $3.3 million a month in revenue, versus the $4 million a month it took in the following year.
 He said the firm was more modest in scale than during its Ernst & Young years, in part because there are fewer bankruptcies today and there had been very little backlog of business when the company changed hands. The firm still ranks high on lists comparing financial advisers based on the number of cases handled.
 Mr. Oesterle said most of the eight managing directors who departed last year had been replaced.
 The chief compliance officer and other top executives also left, but Mr. Oesterle said the departures did not reflect poorly on the business or signal unhappiness with Mr. Giuliani.
 ''It's a competitive marketplace,'' he said, ''but that creates opportunity for us to hire people. I'm very comfortable with where we are in terms of the talent level within the organization.''
 Of Mr. Giuliani, he said, ''He plays a very limited role with this business -- you can think of this as more of an investment of Giuliani Partners in many ways.'' 
 One executive who left Capital Advisors last year, and spoke on the condition of anonymity because those who left had signed confidentiality agreements, said Mr. Giuliani's limited role had not helped. He said the firm needed a rainmaker to bring in business and to raise capital for the merger and acquisition portion of the business.
 ''When you put all that together, it's just not a winning formula,'' the former executive said.
 Mr. Hess, however, described Mr. Giuliani as a hands-on manager in the main consulting part of the business, an executive whose busy schedule very much sets the agenda for the company, at least for now.
 ''We work with his schedule: When he's off speaking or when he was writing his book, we would find what days worked and what days don't work,'' Mr. Hess said. ''He's remarkable. He doesn't sleep very much.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mr. Giuliani with Marcelo Ebrad, Mexico City's police chief, in 2002. The Giuliani firm was hired to help cut the city's crime rate. (Photo by Daniel Aguilar/Reuters)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (65%) Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 2008

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Giuliani Partners

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Rudolph W Giuliani; Patrick Healy; Russ Buettner; Michael D Hess

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



165 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisanship as the First Resort?

 BODY:
The House's new Democratic majority is mounting a legislative blitzkrieg meant to leave the displaced Republicans gasping in the dust. In successive working days, the Democrats plan to enact legislation to bolster homeland security, raise the minimum wage, encourage embryonic stem cell research, require the government to bargain for lower Medicare drug prices, recoup lost royalties on offshore oil and gas leases, and lower interest rates on student loans. 
 These are all commendable goals. Equally commendable is the pledge by the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, to restore some pay-as-you-go fiscal discipline to a budget process bloated out of control by President Bush's deficit spending. But what is sorely lacking is the oft-invoked, more often abused ideal of bipartisanship -- despite the Democrats' campaign pledge to end the practice of relegating minority lawmakers to the legislative wilderness.
 The Democrats have the votes to impose their way. But quickly turning any of these measures into law is dicier given the more complicated rules in the Senate and the Democrats' blade-thin majority there. In scoring early political notches, House Democrats had better keep in mind the promise of bipartisanship for securing larger victories.
 For years, bipartisanship has been the missing ingredient in the sour stew of Washington. It was lacking during the Democrats' long House reign that ended in 1994. But during the last 12 years, the Republicans virtually eliminated Democratic participation. Chronically invoked by President Bush, this political ideal has been reduced to rhetorical ashes. 
 Of necessity, perhaps, the new Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, is making a considerable show of promising to reach across the aisle. In the House, Ms. Pelosi promises bipartisanship will be in evidence after the Democrats get past their opening agenda. That is like saying the checks and balances are in the mail. If Democratic candidates were smart enough during the campaign to realize that the voters demand bipartisanship, they should be quick enough to try it from the start. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MEDICARE (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); OIL & GAS LEASES (71%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (71%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (57%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (57%); MINIMUM WAGE (57%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); STUDENT LOANS (56%) Editorials

PERSON: HARRY REID (59%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



166 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plan for Iraq Requests More Troops and More Jobs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington, and Marc Santora from Baghdad.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
President Bush's new Iraq strategy calls for a rapid influx of forces that could add as many as 20,000 American combat troops to Baghdad, supplemented with a jobs program costing as much as $1 billion intended to employ Iraqis in projects including painting schools and cleaning streets, according to American officials who are piecing together the last parts of the initiative. 
 The American officials said Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, formally agreed in a long teleconference on Thursday with Mr. Bush to match the American troop increase, made up of five combat brigades that would go in at a rate of roughly one a month, by sending three more Iraqi brigades to Baghdad over the next month and a half.
Nonetheless, even in outlining the plan, some American officials acknowledged deep skepticism about whether the new plan could succeed. 
 They said two-thirds of the promised Iraqi force would consist of Kurdish pesh merga units to be sent from northern Iraq, and they said some doubts remained about whether they would show up in Baghdad and were truly committed to quelling sectarian fighting.
 The call for an increase in troops would also put Mr. Bush in direct confrontation with the leaders of the new Democratic Congress, who said in a letter to the president on Friday that the United States should move instead toward a phased withdrawal of American troops, to begin in the next four months. 
 Mr. Bush is expected to make the plan public in coming days, probably in a speech to the country on Wednesday that will cast the initiative as a joint effort by the United States and Iraq to reclaim control of Baghdad neighborhoods racked by sectarian violence. Officials said Mr. Bush was likely to be vague on the question of how long the additional American forces would remain on the streets of Baghdad. But they said American planners intended for the push to last for less than a year.
 A crucial element of the plan would include more than doubling the State Department's reconstruction efforts throughout the country, an initiative intended by the administration to signal that the new strategy would emphasize rebuilding as much as fighting. 
 But previous American reconstruction efforts in Iraq have failed to translate into support from the Iraqi population, and some Republicans as well as the new Democratic leadership in Congress have questioned if a troop increase would do more than postpone the inevitable and precarious moment when Iraqi forces have to stand on their own.
 Congress has the power to halt the increases by cutting off money for Mr. Bush's proposals. But some Democrats are torn about whether to press ahead with such a move for fear that it will appear that they are not supporting the troops.
 When Mr. Bush gives his speech, he will cast much of the program as an effort to bolster Iraq's efforts to take command over their own forces and territory, the American officials said. He will express confidence that Mr. Maliki is committed to bringing under control both the Sunni-led insurgency and the Shiite militias that have emerged as the source of most of the violence. Mr. Maliki picked up those themes in a speech in Baghdad on Saturday in which he said that multinational troops would support an Iraqi effort to secure the capital.
 Some aspects of the plan were reported by The Wall Street Journal on Friday.
 The officials would not say specifically whether the American troop increase would be carried out if the Iraqis failed to make good on their commitment to add to their own ranks. But they emphasized that the American influx, which would be focused in Baghdad and Anbar Province but could also include a contingency force in Kuwait, could be re-evaluated at any point.
 The American officials who described the plan included some who said they were increasingly concerned about Mr. Maliki's intentions and his ability to deliver. They said senior Bush administration officials had been deeply disturbed by accounts from witnesses to last Saturday's hanging of Saddam Hussein, who said they believed that guards involved in carrying out the execution were linked to the Mahdi Army, the Shiite militia that is headed by Moktada al-Sadr, whose name some of the executioners shouted while Mr. Hussein stood on the gallows. 
 ''If that's an indication of how Maliki is operating these days, we've got a deeper problem with the bigger effort,'' said one official, who insisted on anonymity because he was discussing internal administration deliberations over a strategy that Mr. Bush has not yet publicly announced.
 The White House has refused to talk publicly about any of the decisions that Mr. Bush has made about his plan, which is tentatively titled ''A New Way Forward.'' Even though speechwriters are already drafting Mr. Bush's comments, several of the crucial elements are not final, officials warned. That apparently includes the exact amounts of money Mr. Bush will ask of Congress to finance the jobs program or a longer-term job-training effort that will also be part of the strategy. 
 Mr. Bush has previously promised to remake American reconstruction efforts in Iraq, most notably in December 2005, when he said that the United States had learned from the failure of efforts to rebuild major infrastructure, mostly run by American companies. But subsequent efforts to focus on programs that would bring more immediate benefits to Iraqis have also faltered.
 The details of Mr. Bush's latest military, economic and political initiatives were described by several sources, including some who said they doubted it would work. The jobs program, noted one, ''would have been great in 2003 or even 2004, but we are trying it now in a very different Iraq,'' one in which the passion for fighting for sectarian control of neighborhoods may outweigh interests in obtaining employment. 
 The American officials who described the program included both advocates and critics of Mr. Bush's new strategy and representatives of three different executive branch departments. They would speak only on condition of anonymity because they were discussing internal deliberations about a plan that Mr. Bush had not yet announced.
 The most immediate element of the new jobs program would amount to a major expansion of what is known in the military as the Commander's Emergency Response Program, which provides money to local officers to put civilians to work as a way of reducing resistance to the American presence in neighborhoods. While the effort has had some successes, they have largely been temporary. As a senior White House official noted in an interview recently, ''You'd go into a neighborhood, clear it, try to hold it, and come back later and discover that it's all been shattered.''
 The new effort, officials said, would cost between a half billion and a billion dollars, some of which would be spent on other efforts to achieve stability and train Iraqis for more permanent jobs. The State Department and the Treasury Department have been brought into that effort.
 The plan also calls for a more than doubling of the ''Provincial Reconstruction Teams,'' relatively small groups of State Department officials empowered to coordinate local reconstruction efforts, chiefly hiring Iraqi companies. For much of the first half of 2006, the State Department was engaged in a bureaucratic dispute with the Defense Department about how these teams would be protected, including exploration of a plan to hire private protective forces that a White House official said ''was too expensive.'' Now those teams will be expanded and embedded with combat brigades, officials said, in what would amount to the latest effort to demonstrate to Iraqis that the American forces in their midst were not simply occupiers.
 Much of the plan described by officials seemed to be consistent with views supported by Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, who will soon take over as the commander of ground forces in Iraq and who has been a strong advocate of an everyday American troop presence in neighborhoods. 
 Mr. Bush's speech is widely expected to make the case that Americans needed to commit to greater national sacrifice as part of what Bush administration officials acknowledge amounted to a last-ditch effort to salvage the mission in Iraq. 
 But almost as soon as his speech is done, a series of hearings will begin on Capitol Hill that Democrats intend to use to pick apart the details of the plan, with lawmakers questioning administration officials about whether a troop increase of any size can succeed this late in the war. Those hearings will also likely focus on whether the expanded American military commitment is linked to Iraqi military performance, a point that Bush administration officials would not address directly. 
 As described by those officials, Mr. Bush is stopping well short of declaring that the beefed-up American force will be sent only if the Iraqis also increase their own forces. But under the increase being contemplated, the reality is that every month between now and April or May, Mr. Bush will have a chance to decide whether to send an additional combat brigade into the country. ''That's our moment of leverage,'' a White House official said.
 Officials said a larger American troop commitment also would be used to illustrate Washington's increased resolve to deter adventurism by regional adversaries, especially Iran. Mr. Bush's speech is expected to include talk of a new diplomatic initiative to shore up confidence among Washington's Islamic allies in the region as well as to warn its adversaries. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is expected to begin that initiative almost immediately after the speech, leaving for the Middle East by next weekend.
 Parallel to an enlarged Baghdad security operation, Mr. Bush has signaled his desire to expand the number of American military trainers working with Iraqi security forces.
 In a speech in Baghdad on Saturday, Mr. Maliki said he was going to renew his efforts to rid the Iraqi Army and other security forces of sectarian influences.
 ''I announce here that all parties and political organizations, without exception, are forbidden from practicing their activities among the armed forces,'' he said during a speech given to mark Army Day. 
 In his speech, he mentioned the new Baghdad security plan, saying multinational forces would ''support and back up our forces.'' But he said little specifically about an increase in American troops. Officials familiar with his thinking have said privately that he opposes any measure that would delay giving his administration complete control over Iraq's armed forces as soon as possible.
 He once again tried to reassure critics of his administration that no outlaws could expect protection.
 ''The Baghdad security plan will not provide safe haven for all outlaws, regardless of their political or sectarian identities,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis inspected the wreckage after a car bomb exploded in Baghdad yesterday. The bomb, which was apparently intended to strike an Iraqi police patrol, killed a civilian and wounded three police officers. (Photo by Mohammed Jalil/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007



167 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: For Journalists, Politics Not as Usual

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: ROSSLYN, Va. 

 BODY:
The newsroom of The Politico, the (mostly) online news venture starting publication in two weeks, looks like a typical one -- reporters tap on computers at adjacent desks while banks of televisions hum overhead. But unlike a standard daily newspaper, The Politico will be devoted to a single topic: national politics. Another big difference: It is hiring. 
 As many newspapers across the country are cutting their staffs and trimming back on Washington coverage, The Politico is finding younger journalists and some veterans -- including John F. Harris and Jim VandeHei from The Washington Post, Mike Allen from Time magazine and Roger Simon from Bloomberg News -- who are willing to leave the once-secure confines of traditional print to join a start-up.
''It seems riskier to stay in print than to go to something new,'' said Ben Smith, 30, a reporter for The Daily News in New York, who will be writing a blog for The Politico about the 2008 presidential campaign. 
 If The Politico succeeds, it could signal that the Web has become a more plausible alternative for mainstream journalists. (Most bloggers offer their Web logs free, and rare is the site that pays reporters to create original content.) But there are skeptics who say that the focus of The Politico is too narrow and that the marketplace too crowded with sources of political news, from sites like RealClearPolitics.com to scores of other publications, including newspapers and their Web sites. Partisans, especially, feast on sites that affirm their views; The Politico says it will be nonpartisan.
 The Politico, financed by Allbritton Communications and based here in suburban Washington in a glassy tower that once housed Gannett, has smoothed the transition for print journalists with handsome salaries, though no one is talking exact figures.
 Its publisher, Robert L. Allbritton, 37, scion of the banking and media family that once owned the defunct Washington Star, said in an interview that he would finance The Politico for ''the foreseeable future'' and has committed to paying for expensive campaign travel. He has hired a staff of about 50 people, almost half of them journalists.
 ''Newspapers have to be all things to all people,'' Mr. Allbritton said. ''On the Internet, there is no one site that delivers everything. It's broken down into mini-mini-subdivisions of interests and they attract people who are passionately interested in one subject.''
 Mr. Allbritton also said he has no political agenda and is in the business because it could be profitable; if Google or some other entity eventually wanted to buy it, he said, ''that would be great,'' but that it is not part of his business plan. (He had briefly considered buying The Hill last year, but declined; the asking price was a reported $40 million.) 
 He is best known for following his father, Joe L. Allbritton, as chief executive of the Riggs Bank, which was sold in 2004 after a Senate investigation found that Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the late Chilean dictator, had kept millions of dollars in secret accounts at Riggs. Robert Allbritton has been chairman and chief executive of Allbritton Communications, which owns television stations in Washington and a half dozen other markets, since 2001. 
 He predicted that The Politico would start turning a profit in less than five years, from advertising in all of its incarnations -- on the Web, with its own television program and in a limited print edition, with 30,000 copies three days a week while Congress is in session and one day a week when Congress is in recess. The Politico will be free for readers, both online and in print.
 It is hoping to attract the kind of advertisers that already pay to be in other publications aimed at Washington -- chiefly, political advocacy groups that are trying to influence Congress, as well as local businesses. 
 One of the few models for what The Politico is trying to do might be Inside.com, a media-oriented Web site that tried to branch into print and conferences. It started in 2000 with venture capital backing and it, too, attracted well-known journalists eager for the promise of riches and fame from the Web. Alas, it vanished almost two years later after the dot-com bust. 
 ''We were ahead of our time,'' said Kurt Andersen, one of the founders of Inside.com and now a contributing editor at New York magazine. He said The Politico had an advantage because ''there is now this huge online ad sales culture.'' 
 ''But,'' he added, ''you wonder, with this narrowly defined, very Washington-centric political focus, no matter how great it is, what is the size of that audience? You can be the best, but if it doesn't have a gigantic audience, advertisers won't be interested.''
 Mr. Harris, 43, who left his job as political editor of The Post to become editor in chief of The Politico, said the site would distinguish itself with lively writing, scoops, video and behind-the-scenes reporting from the campaign trail. The goal, he said, is not to steal audiences from other publications but for The Politico to become part of their routine as they surf the entire multimedia landscape.
 And as they surf, Politico reporters will pop up everywhere. The Politico is planning its own regular half-hour program on Allbritton's 24-hour cable news service, Channel 8, which reaches 1.1 million viewers in the region. Its reporters are to appear on CBS News programs. And The Politico is planning a five-minute daily segment in the late afternoon on WTOP, Washington's all-news radio station.
 And unlike many old-school newspapers, The Politico is encouraging its reporters to promote their work elsewhere. Mr. Allen, 42, who covered the White House for Time, will continue to write a column for Time's print version. Mr. Simon, 58, The Politico's chief political columnist, said that he had arranged for his Politico column to be syndicated in newspapers across the country.
 ''The most successful journalists these days have a promotional ethic that would be uncomfortable for a traditional journalist,'' Mr. Harris said. ''I admire those people who say, 'I don't want to go on TV; my work speaks for itself,' but I don't think that's realistic for people who want to have an impact.''
 Mr. VandeHei, 35, who left his job as a national political correspondent at The Post to become The Politico's executive editor, said he initially had some concern that sources whom reporters had developed at other papers might not follow them to The Politico. 
 ''Yes, it was easier to get someone on the phone because I worked for The Post,'' he said, ''but I can count on one hand the number of stories that were leaked to me because I worked at The Post. Reporters here will transcend the organization.'' 
 That investment in the individual over the organization is relatively new for print journalists, emerging more as the Web has increasingly offered alternatives and newspapers have hit economic turbulence. 
 While The Post, for example, has been investing in its Web site, advertising revenue at its print edition fell by 11 percent in the third quarter last year compared with the previous year, and circulation was down more than 3 percent. Last year, 170 people, including 70 in the newsroom, took buyouts and left the paper. 
 ''Allbritton has created a lot of excitement,'' said Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism, an affiliate of the Pew Research Center. ''At a time when people in journalism feel frustrated that newsrooms are shrinking and their horizons are shrinking, this is a sign of a new economic model of a specialized site, where journalists can be entrepreneurial.''
 Michael Kinsley, the founding editor of Slate.com, said it was a positive sign that mainstream journalists were signing up to work for The Politico. When Slate.com started in 1996, he said, ''you couldn't get anyone from the establishment.''
 But he questioned whether The Politico could carve out a niche for itself in a world glutted with political news. ''I'm thinking, 'God, I can't keep up with it all,' '' he said. ''But, then again, I would have thought there was no more room for another Starbucks in Dupont Circle, and there always is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim VandeHei, top, and John F. Harris, above, both left The Washington Post for leadership positions at The Politico. (Photographs by Ken Cedeno for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
The Washington press corps as it looked in the 1950s, above. Now, journalists for The Politico, top, will cover politics online as well as on television and in print. (Photo by George Tames/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Ken Cedeno for The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); BUSINESS PLANS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) News and News Media; Computers and the Internet; News and News Media

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); FORBES INC (54%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Politico (Web site)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: Robert L Allbritton; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



168 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: For Gravitas or Levity, Try a Robert Frank Book 

BYLINE: By MARIA ASPAN

 BODY:
This summer, readers interested in American wealth will be able to pick up Robert Frank's new book -- and the other Robert Frank's new book. 
 Robert Frank, a reporter who covers private wealth for The Wall Street Journal, and Robert H. Frank, an economist and professor at Cornell University (who also contributes to The New York Times), have both written books dealing with the culture of wealth in the United States. Mr. Frank's ''Richistan: A Journey Through the American Wealth Boom and the Lives of the New Rich,'' will be published by Random House's Crown imprint in June, while Professor Frank's ''Falling Behind: How Rising Inequality Harms the Middle Class,'' will be published by the University of California Press in July.
Both writers, who are telephone acquaintances, sounded more amused than annoyed by the coincidental timing. ''If Robert Frank comes out with a book on economic inequality, it's going to be confusing,'' said Professor Frank, who said that people occasionally mistake him for the journalist. But, he added, the other Robert Frank ''is entitled to his name and any subject he wants to write about.'' 
 Mr. Frank's regard for the professor goes beyond just his name. ''I'm a huge admirer of his work. I've read and loved every book that he's written,'' he said. ''He's a renowned and respected and highly trained economist, and I'm a mere journalist.''
 The writers also rely on small distinctions to separate their public identities. ''I use my middle initial, so this helps,'' said Professor Frank, who has some experience sharing his name. (His literary agent also represents the photographer named, yes, Robert Frank.) 
 The journalist Mr. Frank, whose longtime byline is ''Robert Frank'' and whose middle initial is L., had considered using that initial with ''Richistan'' (early copies of the book's jacket have it). But he has now decided to publish the book without the initial, he said Friday. Both men also said that their books, while superficially related, were very different in tone and purpose. Mr. Frank described ''Richistan'' as a ''colorful and fun'' collection of stories about the lives and lifestyles of wealthy Americans. ''Falling Behind'' examines the pressures facing middle-class Americans as a result of uneven income gains. 
 Professor Frank's book already has its first endorsement -- from Mr. Frank, who has read a manuscript copy. ''I think his book is great and I hope people buy it,'' Mr. Frank said. MARIA ASPAN


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Falling Behind'' was written by a professor, and ''Richistan'' by a journalist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) Wall Street Journal; Cornell University

PERSON: Robert Frank; Robert H (Prof) Frank; Maria Aspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



169 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Scheduled for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow. 
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.04 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 5.08 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 4.77 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TOMORROW
 Oyster Bay, N.Y., $60 million of general obligation. Competitive.
 Virginia Housing Development Authority, Richmond, $98.6 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Wisconsin, $158.4 million of general of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
 Beaverton, Ore., School District, $143.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 New York City Department of Education, $51.3 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 South Carolina Department of Transportation, $283.3 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Alpine, Utah, Board of Education School District, $111.3 million of debt securities. UBS.
 Blount County, Tenn., Public Building Authority, $135.1 million of debt securities. Morgan Keegan.
 Boise State University, $87.6 million of general revenue and refunding bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 Bryan, Tex., Independent School District, $51.7 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 Central Bucks School District, Doylestown, Pa., $108.2 million of debt securities. Mellon Financial Markets.
 Cumberland County, Pa., Municipal Authority, $63.5 million of revenue bonds for the Diakon Lutheran Social Ministries project. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 El Paso County Community College District, $70 million of debt securities. Bear Stearns.
 Gainesville, Ga., Redevelopment Authority Educational Facilities, $83.4 million of refunding revenue bonds for Riverside Military Academy. UBS.
 Hawaii County, $119.4 million of general obligation bonds. A.G. Edwards.
 Hillsborough County, Fla., Public Schools, $65 million of certificates of participation. Citigroup.
 Jacksonville, Fla., Electric Authority, $108.5 million of St. John's River Power Park System refunding revenue bonds . JPMorgan. 
 Lancaster County, Pa., Hospital Authority, $95.6 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 Los Angeles Unified School District, $1.3 billion of general obligation refunding bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Mississippi Home Corporation, $50 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. UBS.
 Murrieta Valley Unified School District, Murrieta, Calif., $90 million of general obligation bonds. UBS.
 North Carolina Medical Care Commission, $262.6 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 Orlando, Fla., Utilities Commission, $116.2 million of revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Pearland, Tex., Independent School District, $107.9 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 Pennsylvania State University, $175 million of debt securities. PNC Capital Markets.
 San Antonio Electric and Gas Systems, $127.9 million of revenue and refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Santa Clara County, Calif., Tobacco Settlement Fund, $120 million of debt securities. Citigroup.
 Sherwood, Ore., School District No. 88J, $100 million of general obligation bonds. Seattle-Northwest Securities. 
 Springfield, Mass., $140 million of general obligation state qualified bonds. UBS.
 St. Louis, $250 million of airport revenue refunding bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 St. Louis, $105 million of airport revenue refunding bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Tennessee State School Bond Authority Higher Educational Facilities, $130 million of bonds. UBS.
 University of California Medical Centers, $440.1 million of revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 Washington State Housing Finance Commission, $54.5 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. UBS.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (62%); HOSPITALS (61%); RIVERS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); MISSISSIPPI HOME CORP (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); MELLON FINANCIAL MARKETS INC (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); SEATTLE-NORTHWEST SECURITIES CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); BOISE STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (74%); EL PASO, TX, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



170 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

A BOLD NEW TOYOTA -- Toyota is making some surprisingly aggressive moves this week at the International Auto Show as it moves into markets long dominated by its American and European rivals. And they mark a notable shift for a company where conservatism has been a watchword. [Page C1.] 


TOO QUICK OFF THE LINE -- Each year, in the weeks before Detroit automakers parade their new designs at the auto show, selected groups of reporters assemble for sneak previews. But the car companies have found it more difficult than ever to keep a lid on their closely guarded designs, forcing them to rethink how they disseminate early information. [C3.]

RECORD SALES AT VOLKWAGEN -- Group vehicle sales at Volkwagen, Europe's biggest carmaker, advanced 9.3 percent in 2006, to a record 5.73 million units, thanks to brisk growth around the world and across its brands. [C3.]

CONVERGENCE IN THE CELLPHONE -- The world of desktop computing is finally going mobile, and the shift can be seen in the explosive growth of wireless data for cellular carriers. The newest screen is adopting more and more characteristics of a personal computer. And many believe that the next big shift will be the convergence of many forms of communication encompassing voice, e-mail, instant messaging and video telephony. [C1.]

HIRING FOR ONLINE COVERAGE -- The offices of The Politico, the (mostly) online news venture starting publication in two weeks, looks like a standard newsroom -- reporters tap on computers at adjacent desks while banks of televisions hum overhead. But unlike a standard daily newspaper, The Politico will be devoted to a single topic: national politics. Another big difference: It is hiring. [C1.]

WHILE BUREAUS SHRINK -- Faced with declining advertising and competition from the Web, midsize regional dailies across the country have been retrenching in recent years, scaling back their Washington coverage and their national ambitions. [C8.]

A MICROSOFT VENTURE WITH FORD -- For Bill Gates, left, the chairman of Microsoft, the Consumer Electronics Show has become an annual forum to mix product announcements with computer-filled visions of future Microsoft-based technologies. This year he is unveiling a partnership with the Ford Motor Company to build Microsoft technology into several Ford models. [C5.]

EARLY LOOK AT VIDEO GAME BATTLES -- The most widely watched report on holiday video game sales is not out until Thursday, but early hints suggest that it may hold a few surprises. At the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, makers have announced that they are shipping more consoles and selling more games than expected, providing an early look at what may be a multiyear battle among Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. [C4.]

TAKE-ALONG SATELLITE DISH -- Rick Rosner, the creator and producer of numerous television series, likes to surround himself with television -- so much so that he invented a portable satellite dish that folds up like a piece of luggage and can be toted on camping trips or to tailgate parties. [C1.]

FRESHENING UP OLD SPICE -- Can an agency known for offbeat campaigns that appeal to younger men, for brands like Nike, ESPN and Miller High Life, freshen the stodgy image of the Old Spice line of men's grooming products? [C6.]

IRAQ CONFIRMS A SOURCE EXISTS -- After weathering six weeks of criticism for quoting an Iraqi police captain whose existence had been called into question, The Associated Press won a vindication last week when Iraq changed its story and acknowledged that, yes, Jamil Hussein does work there. [C8.]

FRANK AND FRANK ON WEALTH -- Robert Frank, a reporter who covers private wealth for The Wall Street Journal, and Robert H. Frank, an economist and professor at Cornell University (who also contributes to The New York Times), have both written books dealing with the culture of wealth in the United States. [C8.]

A TWO-HANKY, JUMBO TUB MOVIE -- People watching ''Love Story,'' the lachrymose 1970 romance, ate on average 28 percent more buttered, salted popcorn than those watching ''Sweet Home Alabama,'' a 2002 comedy, according to a survey described in The Journal of Marketing. [C3.]

CHINA HINTS AT FLEXIBILITY -- China may increase the flexibility of the yuan if its trade surplus continues to expand this year, China's central bank governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, said a meeting of central bank governors from the Group of 10 nations. [C2.]

BRITAIN, TOO, LOVES DVR -- British Sky Broadcasting's sale of more than two million digital video recorders showed the international appeal of a technology that wrests control of television schedules out of the hands of broadcasters and into the homes of viewers. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); TOYS & GAMES (85%); COMPUTER GAMES (84%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); INSTANT MESSAGING (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); NINTENDO CO LTD (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 7974 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



171 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Free-Market Justice

BYLINE: By Morris B. Hoffman. 
Morris B. Hoffman is a Colorado state trial judge and a fellow at the Gruter Institute for Law and Behavioral Research.

DATELINE: Denver 

 BODY:
SIXTEEN years as a state trial judge have left me with a deep respect for the professionalism and competence of the public defenders who handle felony cases for indigent criminal defendants in my courtroom. In fact, I've told friends, only half-jokingly, that if they are ever charged with a serious criminal offense, the first thing they should do is give all their assets to charity, in an effort to qualify for public defender representation.
 So when two economists from Emory University, Paul Rubin and Joanna Shepherd, agreed last year to collaborate with me on an econometric study of how effective public defenders really are, I had to guard against confirmation bias. I was positive that public defenders would prove more effective than their private counterparts. Mr. Rubin and Ms. Shepherd, with their occupational faith in markets, were equally positive of just the opposite. In the end, the economists were right, though with an interesting twist. (The full study has been published in the Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law.) 
 We looked at all 5,224 felony criminal cases filed in Denver in 2002. Most other studies measure lawyer effectiveness through indicators like acquittal rates, but we used the one thing criminal defendants care about most: the amount of jail or prison time they receive. Thus, acquittals counted as zero. Probationary sentences likewise counted as zero, unless the probation was combined with some jail time. 
 We counted halfway-house sentences as 120 days, which is typical for Denver defendants. We counted the initial length of a prison sentence without decreasing it for early release or increasing it for parole violations. Life sentences we arbitrarily counted as 110 years.
 My economist friends were able to use regression analyses to control for other variables (such as whether a case was plea bargained or went to trial), to minimize the chance that the differences we found were caused by factors other than effectiveness. They also used regressions with different combinations of variables, to ensure that our results were not sensitive to a particular variable.
 The results were surprising. The average sentence for clients of public defenders was almost three years longer than the average for clients of private lawyers.
 But our most notable finding was hidden in one of the variables we had controlled -- the seriousness of the case. We had assumed that public defenders on average handled more serious cases than private lawyers, if for no other reason than that such cases carry higher bonds, and defendants who can't make those bonds are often rendered indigent by their pretrial incarceration. The length of their clients' sentences would of course be distorted by the fact that they handle more serious cases with longer potential sentences. 
 But when we removed the control for the seriousness of the crime, public defenders performed relatively worse, not better (five years more incarceration versus three years more).
 When we examined the seriousness of the cases handled by each type of lawyer, we discovered not only that private lawyers tend to handle more serious cases, but also that as the seriousness of the case increases, the chances that a private lawyer is handling it also increases. What in the world could explain such a result?
 It turns out that the explanation, at least in part, is one that should put a smile on the face of all free-marketers and rational choice theorists: criminal defendants, just like any other consumers of services, appear to be making choices based on their rational assessments of costs and benefits. But, you might ask, do criminal defendants ever really have a choice between public defenders and private counsel? It appears many do.
 Our data suggested that, contrary to the law's rather binary notion of indigency, a large chunk of felony criminal defendants are what we have called ''marginally indigent.'' They could, if they had to, tap hidden resources, or the resources of family and friends, to retain private lawyers. But what drives that decision? Just what you'd expect from any rational consumer of criminal defense services: a combination of the seriousness of the offense and the likelihood of conviction.
 Imagine a guilty, marginally indigent defendant facing a relatively minor felony (for which he will most likely get probation). Now add to the mix the fact that his crime was captured on videotape, meaning he has a small chance of avoiding conviction. It is unlikely such a defendant would deplete his and his family's and friends' resources to hire a private lawyer when he could get a free public defender to achieve the same result.
 At the other end of the spectrum, imagine a marginally indigent defendant charged with first degree murder, and imagine that he is innocent. Wouldn't that defendant do everything in his power to marshal the resources to hire a private lawyer, if he believed, rightly or wrongly, that the private lawyer were more likely to achieve an acquittal?
 In other words, marginally indigent defendants who choose public defenders tend to be guilty. And of course if that's true, it's not at all surprising that public defenders would achieve less favorable outcomes.
 More work needs to be done to confirm these results. But if they hold, and hold nationally, they could have important policy implications. Roughly one-third of all states have formal statewide public defender systems, and several others have regional or local systems. Current debates about improving these systems tend to revolve around two poles: increased financing (for which public defenders have been clamoring since the 1980s, when per client spending in most systems, in real dollars, took a nose dive from which it has never recovered) and, more recently, privatization. 
 If it is true that public defenders achieve substantially worse results for their clients than private lawyers, that fact should be troubling to us all, quite apart from whether the difference is the product of underfinancing, government inefficiencies or both.
 But our results suggest a more benign explanation, and a less drastic solution than spending more on public defenders or privatizing the system. If self-selection by guilty, marginally indigent defendants is driving a big part of this effectiveness difference, the remedy may simply be to tighten the mechanisms we use to determine indigency. This solution would not only reduce the outcome differences between public defenders and private defense lawyers, but it would also give taxpayers more bang for their public defender buck.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Joe Morse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEFENDERS (92%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (91%); LEGAL AID (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FELONIES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); PRISONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PAROLE (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); PROBATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (73%) Legal Aid for the Poor; Legal Aid for the Poor

PERSON: Morris B Hoffman

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



172 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 395 words

PERSON: Ira David Wallach 

HEADLINE: Ira D. Wallach, 97, a Philanthropist

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Ira D. Wallach, a New York philanthropist who for many years was the chief executive of Central National-Gottesman Inc., the world's largest private marketer of pulp, paper and newsprint, died on Saturday at the White Plains Hospital Center. He was 97 and lived in Scarsdale. 
 His death was confirmed by Peter Siegfried, a lawyer for the company. Mr. Wallach also had homes in New York City and Martha's Vineyard.
In a career of more than 70 years, he was a lawyer and businessman with interests in philanthropy and in global economic and political affairs. With his wife, the former Miriam Gottesman, he created a charitable foundation whose beneficiaries included the New York Public Library, Columbia University, the American Museum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 Mr. Wallach was an outspoken opponent of the Vietnam War and many policies of the Nixon administration. He was named in a White House memorandum listing Nixon's ''political opponents,'' one step down from the notorious ''enemies list'' -- people who were singled out for tax audits and other problems. 
 In 1980, Mr. Wallach co-founded the Institute for East West Security Studies, now known as the EastWest Institute, a research group that focuses on international political, economic and security issues. 
 Ira David Wallach was born in New York City on June 3, 1909. He earned bachelor's and law degrees from Columbia University and was a Navy lieutenant in World War II.
 In 1946 he joined Gottesman & Company, as it was then known, as executive vice president. He was the chief executive and a director of the company from 1956 to 1979, later serving as chairman and then senior vice chairman, the title he held at his death. During his tenure, the company, which is based in Purchase, N.Y., grew from a relatively small wood pulp distributor into an organization with operations in 18 countries.
 Through the Miriam G. and Ira D. Wallach Foundation, gifts established an art gallery and a professorship at Columbia, an orientation hall at the American Museum of Natural History and paid for improvements at many other institutions.
 In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1938, Mr. Wallach is survived by two daughters, Sue W. Wachenheim, of Rye, and Kate W. Cassidy, of East Hampton; a son, Kenneth L., of New York City; 13 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (77%); LAWYERS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HISTORY (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); PULP INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); TAX LAW (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); TAX AUDITS (52%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: CENTRAL NATIONAL-GOTTESMAN INC (91%); WALLACH CO (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5113 INDUSTRIAL & PERSONAL SERVICE PAPER (91%)

Robert D Mcfadden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



173 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Losing Job and Pride, but Finding a Footing in a Work Program 

BYLINE: By ALEXIS REHRMANN

 BODY:
Nancy Harris wants to make a few things very clear.
 ''I'm not crazy. I'm not stupid,'' Ms. Harris said. ''I just want to work. I'm used to working.''
Not working pulled her into a depression. Not working took her from a steady salary to unemployment compensation and eventually to public assistance. Not working left her with no means to pay her share of her son's college tuition.
 Ms. Harris, 51, has been unemployed for more than a year. Losing her job, she said, has been devastating.
 Ms. Harris remembers exactly when she was hired as a member of the housekeeping staff at Harlem Hospital Center: Nov. 21, 1998. She valued her work. ''I got to learn a lot about how to care for the sickly, and for the public, and to sanitize the hospitals,'' she said. 
 One August night in 2005, she was working the graveyard shift and went to a deli on her break to buy a turkey on a roll. By morning, she had food poisoning.
 She was sick for two weeks. ''It got worse and worse,'' she said. ''I was walking around here like a dog. I couldn't stand up.''
 Ms. Harris was reluctant to ask for help from her son, Alphonso Howlett, 21, who was away at college. ''He's in school. He's getting an education. I don't need him to be distracted,'' she said. 
 A neighbor insisted that she go to the hospital, and it was determined that she had appendicitis. 
 The appendix was so inflamed that treatment required two operations, one to drain it and a second in September to remove it. She was at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center for nearly a month. She still has a deep curving scar on her lower right abdomen from her surgery.
 Ms. Harris said that on Nov. 18, 2005, she was fired from her job for reasons that she still struggles to understand. ''The only thing that I could see was that I was sick,'' she said. She missed a lot of work and said the union did not take up her case.
 She had used her $29,557 yearly salary to put her daughter, Antastasia Nicole Harris, through a training program in the nursing field. 
 Without a job, she said she was worried that she would not be able to do the same for her son. ''I thought that my son would be terminated at the end of the semester,'' she said. 
 Ms. Harris's son is a junior at Green Mountain College in Vermont, where he plays on the basketball team and majors in sports management. ''I played basketball all my life, so that's something that I want to do -- being in sports,'' Mr. Howlett said.
 Tuition at the Vermont college is $32,000 a year, paid with financial aid, grants, student loans and work study. ''Mine just goes to tuition,'' said Mr. Howlett of his work-study income. 
 The family also pays $500 each month. When he graduates in May 2008, he will be the first in his family to earn a bachelor's degree.
 While Mr. Howlett was gaining a footing with his college life in Vermont, Ms. Harris said she felt like she was losing her ground in New York.
 ''I gave up hope when I was on unemployment,'' Ms. Harris said. ''I was in that state of mind because I was hurt.''
 Depression made looking for work difficult. ''I've been depressed like this ever since they terminated me,'' she said.
 In September, Ms. Harris applied for and began receiving public assistance of $100 a month and $198 a month in food stamps. Her rent in public housing was lowered to $143 a month after she qualified for public assistance.
 She was referred to the Work Experience Program run through Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. There, Ms. Harris met Diana Rivera, a case manager, who has helped Ms. Harris turn the corner. ''When I first got there I was looking out the window, crying, crying, crying,'' Ms. Harris said.
 Ms. Rivera said she took a particular interest in Ms. Harris's case.
 ''I was so compelled by her story,'' Ms. Rivera said. ''The world was pulled from under her feet.'' Ms. Rivera helped Ms. Harris get therapy, acquire interview clothes and seek out food pantries.
 And they talked. ''Dee Dee is gorgeous. She's a beautiful person,'' Ms. Harris said of Ms. Rivera.
 The agency used $500 in Neediest Cases money to cover Ms. Harris's portion of Mr. Howlett's January tuition. ''It means a lot. I appreciate it, and it really, really, helped my family,'' she said. 
 Ms. Harris is currently in a 90-day work program with the New York City Transit. ''I love it. We clean train stations,'' she said. 
 With Ms. Rivera's help she has put together a resume and references and is ready to search for a permanent position. She has begun to attend job fairs. She feels stronger. ''That's why I want to go back to work,'' she said. ''I want to stay in maintenance or housekeeping. That's my field; I feel comfortable in that.''

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,697,117.83
Recorded Thursday: $1,085,148.71
Total: $5,782,266.54
Last year to date: $5,467,648.56


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nancy Harris, 51, with certificates she has received from various agencies. A hospital housekeeping worker, she has been unemployed for a year. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); TUITION FEES (75%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); CHARITIES (74%); RELIGION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); SPORTS BUSINESS (68%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (63%); BASKETBALL (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (59%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Catholic Charities

PERSON: Alexis Rehrmann; Nancy Harris

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



174 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: An Outbreak of Rift Valley Fever Kills Dozens in Kenya

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

 BODY:
A growing outbreak of Rift Valley fever has killed at least 62 people in northeastern Kenya since last month, and health officials fear that it could become much more widespread.
 The disease primarily infects livestock, but humans can catch the virus that causes it from mosquito bites or exposure to blood, raw milk or other fluids from infected animals. Most people do not get very sick, but some develop a brain infection or a hemorrhagic fever, which causes shock and bleeding and can be rapidly fatal. In people, the death rate is usually about 1 percent.
Although that is a relatively low mortality rate, the deaths are so horrible that the disease generates great fear, said Dr. Rob Breiman, who works in Nairobi as director of the international emerging infections program, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States. 
 ''When it occurs in its severest manifestations, it's very, very frightening,'' he said. ''There's a rapid onset of illness, multi-organ failure, bleeding from multiple sites and death -- usually in young, healthy people. They can be healthy one day and near death the next.'' 
 So far, 165 human cases have been reported in Kenya, but the real number is thought to be much higher, because mild cases probably go unreported and because the region is vast, with hard-to-reach areas inhabited by nomadic livestock herders. 
 The cause of the outbreak is unusually heavy rains, which have created ponds and lakes where mosquitoes can breed, in an area that is normally dry.
 The government in Kenya has banned the transport and slaughter of livestock in the affected region, and doctors and scientists from other countries have been pouring in to help. The World Health Organization, Doctors Without Borders and government agencies from the United States, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, are all working in the region.
 There is no specific treatment for the disease and no human vaccine for it. Doctors can offer only supportive care, like fluids and transfusions. The only means of prevention is to avoid mosquito bites and infected animals or raw meat or milk from them. Pasteurized milk and cooked meat from infected animals are safe -- but milking, slaughtering and butchering infected animals are risky. 
 The last outbreak of Rift Valley fever in Kenya occurred in the same region, the Garissa District, from November 1997 to February 1998. At least 170 people died, and researchers estimate that tens of thousands were infected. The district is about 200 miles northeast of Nairobi. 
 James Lorenz, a spokesman for Doctors Without Borders, said the group was using cars and helicopters to reach affected areas, treat patients and teach local health workers how to diagnose cases and care for victims. He said that the severe cases were ''shocking and horrific'' and that people in the area were frightened for themselves and for the animals that are their livelihood. 
 No one knows why some people become so ill from the virus. So far, severe cases have not been linked to H.I.V. infection, old age or other conditions that can make people especially vulnerable. 
 Because the virus is carried by mosquitoes, the disease has the potential to spread far and wide. Cases have already been reported outside the northeastern province, which has scientists worried. They point out that outbreaks can have substantial economic impact, if they lead to international quarantines and restrictions on livestock sales, particularly in areas like northeast Kenya, where the economy is almost entirely based on livestock. 
 The 1997-98 outbreak led to bans on imports of cattle from Kenya and East Africa that lasted for years, Dr. Breiman said. Other countries feared that imported animals would touch off epidemics in people and livestock. The death rate is much higher in animals than in people, and the infection causes pregnant animals to abort. 
 The Centers for Disease Control worked with Ministry of Health in Kenya to set up a laboratory in Garissa to test human blood for the virus and signs of infection, Dr. Breiman said, adding that scientists from the United States will also help to set up separate labs to test samples from animals.
 Researchers have trapped 50,000 mosquitoes, and insect experts will be examining them to determine which species are in the region and which are carrying the virus. Several species of Aedes are already known to be carriers. 
 But it is not clear whether the outbreak can be halted, Dr. Breiman said. There is a vaccine for animals, and Kenya is receiving about 400,000 doses. The vaccine cannot help animals that are already infected, so the idea is to try to administer the vaccine in the projected path of the outbreak. 
 Experts are also debating whether it is feasible to use larvicides against the mosquitoes, but flooding in the affected area is widespread and any aerial spraying would have to be extensive. 
 Mosquito nets over beds cannot be distributed to everyone in the area because distances are long and some roads have been washed out. Some mosquitoes bite during the day, like Aedes. Insect repellent has not been widely distributed.
 Covering up with clothing can also help, but when the rains stop, blistering heat sets in. Dr. Breiman said since most people in the region are Muslim, and women cover themselves in public, they may not fare too badly. 
 Ultimately, what stops the outbreak may be what started it: the weather. That is what occurred in the 1997-98 outbreak. 
 It is summer in Kenya, normally a dry season, and if the floodwaters dry up, so will the mosquitoes, and the disease.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Abdi Ali, 18, being treated last month for Rift Valley fever in Garissa, Kenya. The last outbreak was in the same region in 1997-98. (Photo by Daud Yussuf/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL DISEASES (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); BITES & STINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (78%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (77%); MILK (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); VACCINES (73%); VIRUSES (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); WEATHER (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Livestock Diseases; Livestock; Mosquitoes; Food Contamination and Poisoning

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%) World Health Organization; Doctors Without Borders; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

PERSON: Denise Grady

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (92%) KENYA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Rift Valley (Kenya); Kenya

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



175 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Maria Antonelli, a partner at the Star Group, Cherry Hill, N.J., was promoted to managing partner. She continues as senior vice president and general manager at StarShipley, the Wilmington, Del., office of the Star Group. 
 Chad Boettcher joined Nike, Beaverton, Ore., as director for corporate responsibility and community affairs for the United States. He had been director for strategic partnership and public affairs at MTV, New York, part of Viacom.
Erin Cunningham joined the Via Group, Portland, Me., as an account manager. She had been a retail business planner at Cole Haan, Yarmouth, Me., part of Nike.
 Josh Dammers rejoined the Meredith Corporation, New York, as national advertising director at the Meredith Special Interest Media division. He succeeds Brian Kightlinger, who was recently promoted to publisher of Midwest Living magazine. Mr. Dammers had been national advertising director at Conde Nast Bridal Media, New York, part of the Conde Nast Publications division of Advance Publications, and before that was Eastern sales manager for a Meredith magazine, Better Homes and Gardens. 
 The Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, promoted three account directors. Adam Graves and Erin Roalstad were promoted to senior vice presidents from vice presidents. And Bridgett Silva, an account director at the iDeutsch division, was promoted to vice president.
 Michael J. Fanuele joined the New York office of Euro RSCG Worldwide, owned by Havas, as managing director for strategy, working with another executive with the same title, Don Hogle. Mr. Fanuele had been chief strategic officer at Walrus, New York, an agency he helped to found, and before that worked at agencies like JWT and Mad Dogs and Englishmen.
 Chris Henderson joined Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, as interactive creative director, a new post, working with Patty Henderson (no relation), the agency's interactive director. Mr. Henderson had been executive creative director at Olson, Minneapolis, where Tom Fugleberg, creative director, has been promoted to succeed him.
 HYPR, New York, was renamed DiGennaro Communications, which is adding two employees, Belle Lenz and Theresa Piti to the current staff of Samantha DiGennaro and Kristin Wilcha.
 Meghan McDonnell, a senior consultant at Pile & Company, Boston, was named a vice president.
 William Murray joined the Public Relations Society of America, New York, as president and chief operating officer, posts that had most recently been held by Catherine Bolton, who left in late 2005. Mr. Murray had most recently been president at William Murray & Associates and before that was executive vice president and co-chief operating officer at the Motion Picture Association. 
 Scott Pierce joined VNU Business Media, New York, part of the VNU Group, as vice president for the travel group, a new post, overseeing properties like Business Travel News and the Corporate Travel World exhibition. Mr. Pierce had most recently been president and chief operating officer at the American Hotel and Lodging Educational Institute, Orlando, Fla., and before that held senior posts related to travel properties at Advanstar Communications and Reed Business.
 Rowen Warren, New York, was renamed Fly Communications, as part of changes that include the promotion of R. May Lee to chief executive.
 Tracy Schroder joined PJA Advertising and Marketing, Boston, as an associate creative director. She had been a freelance designer and art director at Toth Brand Imaging, Concord, Mass., and before that worked at Partners & Simons, Boston, and Allen & Gerritsen, Watertown, Mass.
 Jeffrey Smith joined SFGT, Philadelphia, as director for business strategies, a new post. He had been marketing director at the Alpha Shirt Company, Trevose, Pa.
 Sotherby Homes, Dallas, which builds houses in the Dallas market, named Level Two, Dallas, as its agency to develop advertising, a Web site and collateral materials. The account had been handled by the Munday Morning Creative Group, Dallas. Spending has not been determined.
 Sunglass Hut, part of Luxottica Retail, Mason, Ohio, a division of the Luxottica Group, chose JWT, New York, part of the WPP Group, to handle its account. Spending was estimated at $3 million. Sunglass Hut had not recently had an agency of record.
 Tony Telloni joined Burson-Marsteller to oversee New York operations as New York market leader. He succeeds Patrick Ford, who was promoted last January to United States chief executive and had been leading the New York office in addition to handling those new duties. Mr. Telloni had been senior vice president and deputy general manager for the New York consumer brands division at Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc. Burson-Marsteller is part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group.
 Dennis J. Tompkins joined the public affairs group at Eric Mower & Associates, Albany, N.Y., as a senior counselor. He had been media relations manager for the New York State United Teachers and before that was the press secretary to H. Carl McCall when Mr. McCall served as the New York State comptroller.
 Unilever is sponsoring a contest asking consumers to create a 30-second commercial for a new product, Dove Cream Oil Body Wash, to appear during the telecast of the Academy Awards, which is scheduled for Feb. 25 on ABC. The contest is being promoted with e-mail messages, a Web site (dovecreamoil.com) and appearances by Sara Ramirez, a member of the cast of the ABC series ''Grey's Anatomy.'' There are three contests in the same vein, known as consumer-generated content, seeking spots for Super Bowl XLI, to be broadcast by CBS on Feb. 4; those contests are sponsored by Chevrolet, Doritos and the National Football League. The Super Bowl and Oscars are often the two most-watched TV shows of the year, underlining the growing interest among marketers in consumer-generated content. 
 Trina Uzee joined TM Advertising, Irving, Tex., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as interactive associate creative director. She succeeds Todd Connelley, who was recently promoted to interactive creative director. Ms. Uzee had been creative director at IMC2, Dallas.
 Edwin Watts Golf, Fort Walton Beach, Fla., selected Blattner Brunner, Pittsburgh, as agency of record. Spending was estimated at more than $10 million. The initial assignment will be to develop a brand campaign for the company's 65 stores, catalog business and Web site (edwinwattsgolf.com). Edwin Watts Golf previously had no agency of record, handling most of its advertising work internally.
 Edward V. Wise, president at Cline Davis & Mann, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, was promoted to chairman and chief executive. He assumes duties from Jack Slonaker, chairman and chief operating officer, who retired in November to pursue other personal interests. Carol DiSanto, client services director, was promoted to succeed Mr. Wise as president.
 Penny S. Woods joined the Chicago sales department of Parade as an account executive. She had held a similar post at the Parade competitor, USA Weekend, owned by the Gannett Company. Parade is part of Advance Publications. 
 The WPP Group, London, is further expanding into areas beyond conventional advertising by investing in Media Rights Capital, a company that helps finance movies. Terms were not disclosed. Martin Sorrell, chief executive at WPP, likens the deal to investments WPP has made in Spot Runner, an online service that helps small businesses advertise on television, and the Weinstein Company, the studio started by Harvey and Robert Weinstein. Media Rights recently licensed ''Bruno'' -- the comedian Sacha Baron Cohen's follow-up film to ''Borat'' -- to NBC Universal for $42.5 million.
 Yesawich, Pepperdine, Brown & Russell (YPB&R), Orlando, Fla., promoted three employees to vice presidents. They are Matthew Gallagher, creative director; Carrie Kleifgen, production; and Bill Leonard, Web production.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (70%); RETAILERS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); MEREDITH CORP (71%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (67%); HAVAS SA (57%); VIACOM INC (57%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (56%); JWT (54%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%); NIELSEN BUSINESS MEDIA (51%); THE NIELSEN CO BV (50%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); MDP (NYSE) (71%); HAV (PAR) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (73%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (73%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (91%); DELAWARE, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007



176 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 324 words

 BODY:

CONFERENCE SEASON -- Three major consumer-oriented business conferences will be vying for headlines this week, with new product announcements from participating companies expected to be flying thick and fast. New cars, computers, televisions, electronic gadgets -- there will be plenty for nearly any taste. The 2007 North American International Auto Show started yesterday in Detroit; press previews are through Tuesday and industry previews are on Wednesday and on Thursday. The auto show opens to the public on Saturday, through Jan. 21. The 2007 International C.E.S. (consumer electronics show) takes place on Monday through Thursday in Las Vegas. Apple's Macworld conference opens on Tuesday in San Francisco. Among possible new products is a combination iPod and cellphone. 


FED SPEECHES -- A market sell-off followed the release last week of Federal Reserve minutes suggesting continued concerns about inflation and a possible need to raise interest rates. This week, inflation-watchers will be following a few presentations by influential Federal Reserve governors. On Monday, Donald L. Kohn, a Fed vice chairman, will speak at the Rotary Club of Atlanta on the outlook for the economy. On Thursday, Timothy F. Geithner, left, president of the New York Fed, will speak at a Council on Foreign Relations roundtable on developments in the global economy and their implications for the United States. Also on Thursday, Susan Schmidt Bies, a member of the Fed's board of governors, will talk at the United States Chamber of Commerce about risk management.

ECONOMIC REPORTS -- This week's potentially market-moving economic reports will include consumer credit for November (Monday); November trade deficit and November wholesale trade (Wednesday); and December retail sales, December import prices and November business inventories (Friday).

SCANT EARNINGS REPORTS -- Alcoa will begin the earnings season by posting fourth-quarter results (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); INTEREST RATES (53%); IMPORT PRICES (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); ALCOA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



177 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: China Says It May Be Flexible With Yuan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
China may increase the flexibility of the yuan should the country's trade surplus continue to expand this year, China's central bank governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, said yesterday. 
 ''The data from 2006 show that China's trade surplus has been increasing, and if this situation continues, then I think the flexibility of the exchange rate will be increased,'' Mr. Zhou told reporters in Basel, Switzerland, during the bimonthly meeting of central bank governors from the Group of 10 nations.
Booming exports have driven an almost eightfold increase in China's trade surplus in the last five years, according to economic analysts, spurring tensions with trading partners and challenging President Hu Jintao's efforts to cool investment in the world's fastest-growing major economy. The United States and Europe have threatened sanctions, accusing China of keeping its currency undervalued to maintain cheaper exports.
 Mr. Zhou, who met with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. in Beijing last month for the inauguration of the so-called Strategic Economic Dialogue between China and the United States, has said he wants to increase the flexibility of the yuan at a gradual pace. American lawmakers want faster moves.
 China's government indicated on Dec. 7 that its trade surplus might swell by almost two-thirds to a record high of $168 billion this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); TRENDS (78%); EURO (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%) International Trade and World Market; Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

PERSON: HU JINTAO (74%); HENRY PAULSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%) CHINA (98%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



178 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Working Harder For the Man

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Robert L. Nardelli, the chairman and chief executive of Home Depot, began the new year with a pink slip and a golden parachute. The company handed him a breathtaking $210 million to take a hike. What would he have been worth if he'd done a good job?
 Data recently compiled by the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston offers a startling look at just how out of whack executive compensation has become. Some of the Wall Street Christmas bonuses last month were fabulous enough to resurrect an adult's belief in Santa Claus. Morgan Stanley's John Mack got stock and options worth in excess of $40 million. Lloyd Blankfein at Goldman Sachs did even better -- $53.4 million. 
According to the center's director, Andrew Sum, the top five Wall Street firms (Bear Stearns, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley) were expected to award an estimated $36 billion to $44 billion worth of bonuses to their 173,000 employees, an average of between $208,000 and $254,000, ''with the bulk of the gains accruing to the top 1,000 or so highest-paid managers.''
 Now consider what's been happening to the bulk of the American population, the ordinary men and women who have to work for a living somewhere below the stratosphere of the top corporate executives. Between 2000 and 2006, labor productivity in the nonfarm sector of the economy rose by an impressive 18 percent. But workers were not paid for that impressive effort. During that period, according to Mr. Sum, the inflation-adjusted weekly wages of workers increased by just 1 percent.
 That's $3.20 a week. As Mr. Sum wryly observed, that won't even buy you a six-pack of Bud Light. Joe Six-Pack has been downsized. Three bucks ain't what it used to be.
 There are 93 million production and nonsupervisory workers (exclusive of farmworkers) in the U.S. Their combined real annual earnings from 2000 to 2006 rose by $15.4 billion, which is less than half of the combined bonuses awarded by the five Wall Street firms for just one year.
 ''Just these bonuses -- for one year -- overwhelmingly exceed all the pay increases received by these workers over the entire six-year period,'' said Mr. Sum.
 In a development described by Mr. Sum as ''quite stark and rather bleak for the economic well-being of the average worker,'' the once strong link between productivity gains and real wage increases has been severed. The mystery to me is why workers aren't more scandalized. If your productivity increases by 18 percent and your pay goes up by 1 percent, you've been dealt a hand full of jokers in a game in which jokers aren't wild.
 Workers have received some modest increases in benefits over the past six years, but most of the money from their productivity gains -- by far, it's not even a close call -- has gone into profits and the salaries of top executives.
 Fairness plays no role in this system. The corporate elite control it, and they have turned it to their ends.
 Mr. Sum, a longtime expert on the economic life of the American worker, said he is astonished at the degree to which ordinary workers have been shortchanged over the past several years. ''Productivity has been exceptional,'' he said. ''And for most of my life, the way to get wages up was to be more productive. That's how our economy was supposed to work.''
 The productivity gains in the go-go decades that followed World War II were broadly shared, and the result was a dramatic, sustained increase in the quality of life for most Americans. Nowadays workers have to be more productive just to maintain their economic status quo. Productivity gains are no longer broadly shared. They're barely shared at all.
 The pervasive unfairness in the way the great wealth of the United States is distributed should be seen for what it is, an insidious disease eating away at the structure of the society and undermining its future. The middle class is hurting, propped up by the wobbly crutches of personal debt. The safety net, not just for the poor, but for the middle class as well, is disappearing. The savings rate has dropped to below zero, and more Americans are filing for bankruptcy than for divorce.
 Your pension? Don't ask.
 There's a reason why the power elite get bent out of shape at the merest mention of a class conflict in the U.S. The fear is that the cringing majority that has taken it on the chin for so long will wise up and begin to fight back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); CHRISTMAS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); FARM LABOR (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Productivity; Executives and Management; Labor

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (89%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%); JOHN J MACK (54%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



179 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Schwarzenegger's Modest Idea

 BODY:
Guaranteed health care for children is the new political apple pie. No one can say he is against it, and it's a sure applause line for politicians who want to show concern for reducing the number of uninsured in America. But special recognition is due California's governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, who is reportedly ready to begin his new term with an actual proposal that his state insure all children. And by all, he means undocumented immigrants, too. 
 The proposal seems a challenge to fellow Republicans, and even to much of the state's Democratic leadership. Predictably, anti-immigrant groups said that including all children would cost billions more than the $400 million experts estimate. In truth, the idea is economical and, if anything, quite modest.
Several states, including Illinois, Maine and New Jersey, already have programs that cover all youngsters, including undocumented children who might not have access to government-subsidized care. California has what may be the biggest number of uninsured young people, more than 750,000. Most were born in the United States and are citizens.
 Children, however, cannot take themselves in for medical care. That responsibility falls to parents and other caregivers, and when these adults are undocumented, they are often reluctant to take advantage of a child's birthright. California's array of programs to help the poor obtain health care has heavy enrollment in most communities, except among Hispanics. The state's history of discrimination against Latinos leaves many suspicious of government.
 There's no reason to believe that a push, even from an immigrant governor like Mr. Schwarzenegger, would alone solve that problem. But the governor's efforts should infect the national health care debate. Insurance has become a luxury that eludes 47 million people in this country. Putting children first is a good start, because they are usually healthy and cheaper to cover. That's a reason to do the job the right way, without exceptions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); HISTORY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



180 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Quagmire Of The Vanities

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The only real question about the planned ''surge'' in Iraq -- which is better described as a Vietnam-style escalation -- is whether its proponents are cynical or delusional.
 Senator Joseph Biden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, thinks they're cynical. He recently told The Washington Post that administration officials are simply running out the clock, so that the next president will be ''the guy landing helicopters inside the Green Zone, taking people off the roof.''
Daniel Kahneman, who won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for his research on irrationality in decision-making, thinks they're delusional. Mr. Kahneman and Jonathan Renshon recently argued in Foreign Policy magazine that the administration's unwillingness to face reality in Iraq reflects a basic human aversion to cutting one's losses -- the same instinct that makes gamblers stay at the table, hoping to break even. 
 Of course, such gambling is easier when the lives at stake are those of other people's children.
 Well, we don't have to settle the question. Either way, what's clear is the enormous price our nation is paying for President Bush's character flaws. 
 I began writing about the Bush administration's infallibility complex, the president's Captain Queeg-like inability to own up to mistakes, almost a year before the invasion of Iraq. When you put a man like that in a position of power -- the kind of position where he can punish people who tell him what he doesn't want to hear, and base policy decisions on the advice of people who play to his vanity -- it's a recipe for disaster. 
 Consider, on one side, the case of the C.I.A.'s Baghdad station chief during 2004, who provided accurate assessments of the deteriorating situation in Iraq. ''What is he, some kind of defeatist?'' asked the president -- and according to The Washington Post, at the end of his tour, the station chief ''was punished with a poor assignment.''
 On the other side, consider the men Mr. Bush has turned to since the midterm election. They constitute a remarkable coalition of the unwilling -- men who have been wrong about Iraq every step of the way, but aren't willing to admit it.
 The principal proponents of the ''surge'' are William Kristol of The Weekly Standard and Frederick Kagan of the American Enterprise Institute. Now, even if the Joint Chiefs of Staff hadn't given the surge a thumbs down, Mr. Kristol's track record should have been reason enough to ignore his advice. For example, early in the war, Mr. Kristol dismissed as ''pop sociology'' warnings that there would be conflict between Sunnis and Shiites and that the Shiites might try to create an Islamic fundamentalist state. He assured National Public Radio listeners that ''Iraq's always been very secular.''
 But Mr. Kristol and Mr. Kagan appealed to Mr. Bush's ego, suggesting that he might yet be able to rescue his signature war. And am I the only person to notice that after all the Oedipal innuendo surrounding the Iraq Study Group -- Daddy's men coming in to fix Junior's mess, etc. -- Mr. Bush turned for advice to two other sons of famous and more successful fathers? 
 Not that Mr. Bush rejects all advice from elder statesmen. We now know that he has been talking to Henry Kissinger. But Mr. Kissinger is a kindred spirit. In remarks published after his death, Gerald Ford said of his secretary of state, ''Henry in his mind never made a mistake, so whatever policies there were that he implemented, in retrospect he would defend.''
 Oh, and Senator John McCain, the first major political figure to advocate a surge, is another man who can't admit mistakes. Mr. McCain now says that he always knew that the conflict was ''probably going to be long and hard and tough'' -- but back in 2002, before the Senate voted on the resolution authorizing the use of force, he declared that a war with Iraq would be ''fairly easy.'' 
 Mr. Bush is expected to announce his plan for escalation in the next few days. According to the BBC, the theme of his speech will be ''sacrifice.'' But sacrifice for what? Not for the national interest, which would be best served by withdrawing before the strain of the war breaks our ground forces. No, Iraq has become a quagmire of the vanities -- a place where America is spending blood and treasure to protect the egos of men who won't admit that they were wrong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); HELICOPTERS (56%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; John S (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



181 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: After Many Years, It's Rangel's Turn at the Helm

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
It is the committee that produced the Social Security and Medicare laws, that created the modern welfare state and reinvented it in the 1990s, that raised taxes and slashed them, again and again and again. No committee, arguably, has more power or attracts more lobbyists than the Committee on Ways and Means. House members sometimes wait for years for a seat on it, then for decades to rise in seniority.
 Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, joined the committee in 1975, and now, at the age of 76, has finally arrived at the very top. He takes the chairmanship of the 41-member panel, with a new majority of 24 Democrats, at a moment fraught with risk and possibility. Over the next two years, the committee will play a central role in defining, and financing, the Democratic Party's agenda after 12 years out of power.
In its sprawling meeting rooms (decorated with heroic portraits of chairmen past), the committee will now have to deal with all the Democrats' conflicting promises, barely submerged tensions and competing visions from last year's midterm elections. 
 The language may be arcane, the legislation incremental, but the issues before the members touch the lives of millions of Americans as they grapple with a changing and sometimes unsettling economy: how to balance the demands of globalization with the fears of many Americans that free trade no longer works for them. How to abide by the principles of fiscal responsibility, while investing in education, health care and other core benefits for an increasingly anxious middle class. 
 How to maintain the benefits and control the costs in Medicare as the first wave of baby boomers retires. What to do about the huge Bush tax cuts that begin to expire in 2010, a tempting target for liberals but a political landmine for Democrats trying to avoid the old charge of ''taxing and spending.''
 All over Washington, lobbyists, tax lawyers and business leaders, with vast amounts of corporate wealth and power on the line, are acutely focused on the committee -- and on the man who now leads it. Moments after the Democratic transfer of power became official Thursday, Mr. Rangel walked across the crowded Capitol to a reception for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, a fellow New York Democrat, and almost everyone he passed offered a hand, a cheek, a business card, a heartfelt (and occasionally groveling) congratulation.
 ''Mr. Chairman, what do I do, kneel, genuflect, what?'' one woman said. Another man, suddenly recognizing the chairman, blurted out: ''We've got to set up a meeting!'' One after another asked, almost meekly, ''Can I give you my card?'' Mr. Rangel seemed utterly enchanted by it all. When he arrived at the reception, he joined the other alpha male in the room, Mrs. Clinton's husband, and settled happily into small talk, surrounded by flashing cameras, filming cellphones and beaming onlookers.
 Mr. Rangel acknowledged, with a laugh, that he is now treated quite differently by the business and lobbying community. ''I would be doing the same thing, to be honest with you,'' he said. ''You've got to get along with the people who make the decisions and chair the committees.'' For example, Mr. Rangel added, business leaders consumed with expanding trade are suddenly displaying (at least in his presence) a ''more sensitive understanding of the pain that it causes some people.'' It is, in short, good to be king.
 Mr. Rangel is in some ways an unlikely leader for the new Democratic Party, which regained its Congressional majority in large part because of suburban voters, often in very competitive districts. The first black representative to lead the committee, Mr. Rangel comes from an urban and exceedingly safe district; it had the largest margin of Democratic presidential votes in the country in 2004, with just 9 percent going to President Bush, according to the Almanac of American Politics.
 Since he won his seat in 1970, defeating Adam Clayton Powell Jr. in a Democratic primary, Mr. Rangel has been easily re-elected, and able to deliver the federal largess that seniority brings. His district has had only two congressmen in more than 60 years.
 Mr. Rangel is, by most measures, a liberal, although he said in an interview last month that he would no more be a ''Harlem chairman'' than Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, would be a ''San Francisco speaker.'' After 12 agonizing years in the minority, when friends urged him to leave the House and give up the distant prospect of the chairmanship, he says he is determined to make the job work and get things done. That means building consensus and reaching out, not just in his own party but across the aisle, to Congressional Republicans and the Bush administration.
 He cannot work the way his predecessor, Representative Bill Thomas of California, did -- by driving his own party hard and winning votes by absolute party unity. ''Democrats don't work in lockstep,'' Mr. Rangel said. And even if they did, any purely partisan legislation faces the possibility of a presidential veto.
 All this political caution and elaborate bipartisanship does not come easily to Mr. Rangel. He is given to speaking his mind, recently affirming, for example, his support for a return of the draft to highlight the unequal sharing of the burden of war. It is not a popular position, and Mr. Rangel said his party leaders ''kindly'' reminded him that ''it wasn't in my jurisdiction.'' 
 During the midterm campaign, Republicans repeatedly, and at times successfully, tried to provoke Mr. Rangel. Vice President Dick Cheney said, at one point, that Mr. Rangel ''doesn't understand how the economy works'' and would return to taxing and spending; Mr. Rangel unloaded in turn.
 Now, he is trying hard to be restrained, about Mr. Bush, his administration and his tax cuts. When asked about Mr. Bush's renewed insistence last week that Congress extend those tax provisions, Mr. Rangel paused and said, with almost visible effort, ''Part of what I think is my responsibility is not to be critical of the president.''
 He brushes off speculation about his party's plans for the Bush tax cuts, many of which have been criticized by Democrats for years as a giveaway to the richest Americans; it is simply premature, he argues, since their expiration date is three years off. Stan Collender, a longtime budget analyst, says it makes no political sense for Congress to ''deal with tax cuts before you have to, certainly not before the 2008 election.''
 This almost painfully careful discussion underscores the stakes of the Ways and Means Committee's agenda. This month, to set a framework for the discussion of the president's budget, the committee will hold broad hearings on the state of the nation's economy; those will be followed by more hearings on the budget itself, expected in early February. With the president's fast-track authority to negotiate trade agreements expiring this summer, the debate over globalization will also be quickly joined. 
 Chairmen of the 218-year-old committee have traditionally been at the center of the great debates, including how to support a growing elderly population and how to deal with the excesses of capitalism. They often deal directly with presidents -- Wilbur Mills with Lyndon Johnson, Dan Rostenkowski with Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush -- and are linked to the great accomplishments of their eras. (They can also take major political falls, as did Mr. Mills and Mr. Rostenkowski.) 
 The chairmanship does not carry the power it once did; changes in House rules and political practice reined in the ''old bulls.'' But Mr. Rangel, who plans to fly to Chicago this month and confer with Mr. Rostenkowski, is already thinking about his legacy.
 ''I'm 76, and I can't afford the luxury just to gridlock,'' he said.
 Still, there are real fault lines, even within his party. The recent elections showed a resurgent populism, a new skepticism on trade and a new alarm that global competition translates into lower wages and shakier benefits for too many Americans. Democrats who embraced free trade under President Bill Clinton are now having second thoughts.
 Liberals like Robert B. Reich, the former secretary of labor, argue that the new Congress must provide ''more economic security at home,'' like affordable health insurance or better pension protection, to cushion workers in this rough, new, competitive environment. But at the same time, many Democrats argue that the Clinton-era emphasis on deficit reduction and fiscal responsibility must be restored, raising the question of how all their new spending (not to mention a fix to the alternative minimum tax) will be paid for. 
 Jared Bernstein, a liberal economist, said: ''When the Ways and Means Committee has worked well, they've identified social needs and advocated for the funds to meet them. Will this committee do that? I hope so.''
 Republicans, for their part, say they want to work with the Democrats where they can, in particular to ''change the tone'' on the committee after years of bitter partisanship, as Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the panel's senior Republican, put it. But the ideological gulf between the two parties is vast, not just on tax cuts, but on the role of government versus the private market in areas like health care. 
 Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, one of the influential young conservatives on the committee, says he fears that the Democrats' policies will inevitably lead to abolishing ''the pro-growth Bush tax cuts'' and pushing Medicare back toward a ''one-size-fits-all government monopoly.''
 All of this now faces Mr. Rangel -- an extraordinarily difficult job that he won, in part, by simply enduring. As he did his victory lap across the Capitol last week, he said he had no regrets. He could not stop smiling.

The Committee
 This is the first of a series on the House Ways and Means Committee, the panel that has jurisdiction over many of the issues that touch Americans most directly, including taxes, health care and trade. Future articles will look at how its 41 members deal with those issues in the new Democratic Congress and how it confronts the pressures from industries, interest groups, the two parties and ideological advocates from across the political spectrum.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I can't afford the luxury just to gridlock,'' says Charles Rangel, 76. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke/ABC News, via Getty Images)(pg. A1)
 Representative Charles B. Rangel, who took over the chairmanship of the Ways and Means Committee, in his office on Capitol Hill last month. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); TAX LAW (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); BABY BOOMERS (64%) Surveys and Series; Lobbying and Lobbyists

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Robin Toner; Charles B (Rep) Rangel; Bill (Rep) Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



182 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Latest Iraq Plan Creates Timeline to Ease Tensions
President Bush's new Iraq policy will establish a series of goals that the Iraqi government will be expected to meet to try to ease sectarian tensions and stabilize the country politically and economically, senior administration officials said. A1

Lt. 
Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the new American operational commander in Iraq, said that even with the additional American troops likely to be deployed in Baghdad under President Bush's new war strategy, it may take another ''two or three years'' for American and Iraqi forces to gain the upper hand in the war. A9

The Bush administration's selection of Adm. William J. Fallon, a career naval aviator, to be the top commander of American military forces across the Middle East is, at first glance, unusual. He would be the first naval officer to command the region. A8

Archbishop Resigns in Poland
The newly appointed archbishop of Warsaw, Stanislaw Wielgus, abruptly resigned at a Mass meant to celebrate his new position after having admitted that he had worked with Poland's Communist-era secret police. A1

Thailand Unsettled by Bombings
A string of lethal bombs that disrupted New Year's celebrations in Bangkok has signaled the start of a difficult year for Thailand as entrenched elites struggle for control of the country's future. It is still unclear who set the bombs, which killed 3 people and wounded more than 40. A3

Taliban Resumes Attacks
Two babies, their mother and a grandmother were killed in a roadside bombing in eastern Afghanistan, said the provincial police chief of Khost. Three others in the car were wounded. In a separate attack, gunmen killed a high school headmaster in Helmand, an Interior Ministry spokesman said. A9

Fatah Holds Anniversary Rally
The Fatah faction of the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, held a rally in Gaza City, marking the group's 42nd anniversary after days of bloody clashes with the rival Hamas movement. Tens of thousands of Fatah supporters made it one of the largest Fatah rallies in Gaza in many years. A9

Science/Health

Fever in Kenya Kills 62
 A growing outbreak of Rift Valley fever has killed at least 62 people in northeastern Kenya since last month, and health officials fear that it could become much more widespread. Most people do not get very sick, but some develop a brain infection or a hemorrhagic fever, which causes shock and bleeding and can be rapidly fatal. A4 

NATIONAL A12-17

Rangel Set to Begin Committee Leadership
Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, has taken chairmanship of the Committee on Ways and Means. Over the next two years, the committee will play a central role in defining and financing the Democratic Party's agenda after 12 years out of power. A1

Obesity Report Cards
The practice of schools reporting students' Body Mass Index scores to parents was just one tactic in a war on childhood obesity. But now, inspired by notable results in a few well-financed programs, several states have begun B.M.I. programs, turning the reports into a new rite of childhood. A1

Rebounding From Storms
The 70-mile-an-hour winds that hit the Seattle area caused huge evergreen trees to fall onto power lines, houses, cars and roads. Now some tree experts have begun an informal counseling campaign intended to restore trust among residents, eager to cut down future risks. A12

Search for New Harvard Chief
Only the members of Harvard University's presidential search committee know for certain the way in which they are leaning in the search to replace Lawrence H. Summers, left, who was nudged to resign. Many in academia speculate that the university may choose to put a woman in charge. A12

Tax Benefits for the Rich
According to a new Congressional study, families earning more than $1 million a year saw their federal tax rates drop more than any other group. The study reinforced that while President Bush's tax cuts reduced rates for people at every income level, they offered by far the biggest benefits to people at the very top. A16

OBITUARIES B7

Ruthanna Boris
A versatile dancer and choreographer who was the first American ballerina to be a star of one of the prestigious Ballets Russes troupes of the 1940s, she was 88. B7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Assembly Democrats Pose Spitzer's First Challenge
Just days after being sworn in, Gov. Eliot Spitzer is facing his first major political challenge -- and it comesfrom Assembly Democrats. The initial flashpoint is over Mr. Spitzer's demand that in replacing Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, who resigned as part of his guilty plea for defrauding the state, the Legislature should select an independent outsider with financial expertise. B1

Underground Sport
The Underground Combat League stages bouts in New York City that belong to a class of sport sometimes called mixed martial arts, sometimes called ultimate fighting. There are few rules and the events are against the law, officials say. The league's fighters are allowed to strike most parts of their opponent's bodies with full force, prompting many New York lawmakers to liken the sport to human cockfighting. B1

Two Killed in Newark
Two men were killed in a midday gun battle in a Newark housing project less than 24 hours before Mayor Cory A. Booker was scheduled to reveal a new initiative against drugs and violent crime. B1

Subway Station Feud Nears End
A truce has been called in the battle between form and function that erupted late last year over plans for the Fulton Street Transit Center, a new transportation hub in Lower Manhattan. B1

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Jets and Giants Are Out
In their 23-20 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles in their first-round playoff game, the Giants took an early lead then squandered scoring chances. The Jets' 37-16 loss to the Patriots hinged on a third-quarter fumble. D1

ARTS E1-10

New Dance Company in City
Choreographer Christopher Wheeldon has shaken up the settled landscape of ballet in New York by announcing plans to form a classical dance company. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Convergence in a Cellphone
Apple Computer is expected to unveil an Apple phone that could be the first of a new generation of devices that are closer to personal computers in pocket form, underscoring the growing convergence of many types of communication. C1

Toyota Getting Bolder
With the introduction of bigger and more luxurious vehicles at this week's International Auto Show, Toyota is moving into markets long dominated by its American and European rivals in what analysts see as an important sign of its future direction. C1

Online News Is Scaling Up
In a time when many newspapers are cutting their staff and scaling back their Washington coverage, The Politico, an online news venture that starts in two weeks, is solely dedicated to covering national politics and is hiring reporters from what were once secure print jobs. C1

Satellite TV in a Box
The television producer Rick Rosner, frustrated at not being able to get television reception while shooting on location, has developed a 25-pound portable satellite and television system. It will be unveiled by DirecTV at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Testing the testers; Congress and your security; Mr. Schwarzenegger's modest idea; joe economics.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Bridge E8
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E9
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); AL FATAH (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); RELIGION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); NAVIES (76%); TALIBAN (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (65%); TROPICAL DISEASES (65%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (63%); HAMAS (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); OBESITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); KHOST, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KENYA (92%); POLAND (90%); THAILAND (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



183 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: LATEST PLAN SETS A SERIES OF GOALS FOR IRAQ LEADERS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and JEFF ZELENY; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush's new Iraq policy will establish a series of goals that the Iraqi government will be expected to meet to try to ease sectarian tensions and stabilize the country politically and economically, senior administration officials said Sunday. 
 Among these ''benchmarks'' are steps that would draw more Sunnis into the political process, finalize a long-delayed measure on the distribution of oil revenue and ease the government's policy toward former Baath Party members, the officials said.
As the policy is being debated in Washington, the new American operational commander in Iraq said Sunday that his plan was to send additional American troops, expected to be part of the policy change, into Baghdad's toughest neighborhoods, and that under the new strategy it may take another ''two or three years'' to gain the upper hand in the war. [Page A9.] 
 Without saying what the specific penalties for failing to achieve the goals would be, American officials insisted that they intended to hold the Iraqis to a realistic timetable for action, but the Americans and Iraqis have agreed on many of the objectives before, only to fall considerably short. 
 And the widespread skepticism about the Bush administration's Iraq strategy among Democrats and some Republicans was underscored by the new speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, in a television interview broadcast Sunday. She, along with the Democratic leader of the Senate, Harry Reid, informed the president that they were opposed to increasing troop levels.
 ''If the president wants to add to this mission, he is going to have to justify it,'' Mrs. Pelosi said on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation.'' ''And this is new for him because up until now the Republican Congress has given him a blank check with no oversight, no standards, no conditions.''
 She also suggested that Congress should deal with financing for the current war and for the proposed increase as separate issues. ''If the president chooses to escalate the war, in his budget request we want to see a distinction between what is there to support the troops who are there now,'' she said.
 Whether lawmakers are prepared to advocate legislative steps to withhold funds from an expanded mission is unclear. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said Sunday that as a practical matter, there was little that lawmakers could do to prevent Mr. Bush from expanding the American military mission in Iraq. 
 ''You can't go in like a Tinkertoy and play around and say you can't spend the money on this piece and this piece,'' Mr. Biden said on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press.'' ''He'll be able to keep the troops there forever, constitutionally, if he wants to.''
 ''As a practical matter,'' Mr. Biden added, ''there is no way to say, 'Mr. President, stop.' ''
 Mr. Bush is expected to refer to the benchmarks in a much-anticipated speech this week outlining his new Iraq strategy, including plans to send as many as 20,000 additional troops. Administration officials plan to make the benchmarks public sometime after the address. 
 In addition to trying to ease Congressional concerns over the new strategy, the administration is trying to instill discipline in an Iraqi government that has been slow to act and hampered by sectarian agendas. 
 ''There will be an approach and a strategy that reflects not only the desire for the Iraqis to take more responsibility but the need for the Iraqis to step up,'' a senior administration official familiar with the deliberations said. ''This is not an open-ended commitment. We are putting real specific requirements and expectations on the Iraqi government.''
 The Americans and Iraqis have agreed on benchmarks before. Indeed, some of the goals that are to be incorporated on the list of benchmarks have been carried over from an earlier list that was hammered out with the Iraqis and made public in October, but never met.
 The benchmarks, for example, include a previously stated commitment: setting a date for provincial elections. That goal is intended to enfranchise Sunnis -- who had initially boycotted the political process -- and thus give them a role in the governing of Sunni-dominated areas.
 Another measure that was carried over from the old list of benchmarks is the final completion of the long-delayed national oil law that would give the central government the power to distribute current and future oil revenues to the provinces or regions, based on their population.
 The list of benchmarks will also deal with the still-unresolved matter of settling a new policy on de-Baathification. There is wide agreement among experts that the initial Iraqi approach toward former Baath Party members was too sweeping and excluded too many from government service and entitlements. A revised approach would seek to address those concerns by, for example, paying Army pensions to some former Baathists who have been excluded from receiving them.
 One important theme of the new Iraqi strategy will be encouraging the Iraqi government to spend more on projects and programs in Sunni areas. Most of the funds allocated for the Sunni-dominated Anbar Province in western Iraq have never actually been expended. That has encouraged opposition to the Iraqi authorities in Baghdad and handicapped the American military's counterinsurgency efforts in the province.
 ''The assessment has been that the disbursement of funds from the Iraqi government from Baghdad out to the provinces, particularly the Sunni provinces, has been either slow or nonexisting,'' the senior Bush administration official said. ''That has to change.''
 Administration officials said that by more clearly defining the goals and by planning to make them public some time after Mr. Bush's address they hoped to encourage a sense of accountability on the part of the Iraqis.
 Mr. Bush discussed some of the goals -- the need for provincial elections, the enactment of the oil law and reform of Iraq's de-Baathification policy -- during his recent video conference with Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.
 The Americans have not been the only ones underscoring the need for benchmarks. The Maliki government has pressed to gain direct command of Iraq's 10 army divisions, insisting it should be achieved by June. Some American officials have been concerned that it is overambitious. Nevertheless, an administration official has indicated that it is among the goals.
 In Washington, the idea of benchmarks has been generally welcomed by lawmakers, though many remain skeptical that they will be achieved on schedule.
 After meeting with the president and his national security team on Friday at the White House, senators from both parties said they told Mr. Bush they would have trouble supporting an American troop increase unless the plan included specific goals for the Iraqi government.
 Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, said one of his Senate colleagues asked why the effort to add to American forces in Iraq would be more likely to succeed than previous troop increases. Mr. Sununu said the president and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, responded that Mr. Bush's plan would ''include more specific goals, different rules of engagement and different expectations for cooperation with the Iraqi government.''
 Mr. Sununu said when he raised questions about oil revenue distribution, provincial elections and national reconciliation, he received ''strong assurances that these were recognized as critical issues, that they were being addressed by the Maliki government,'' with one proposal that was nearing completion for the distribution of oil revenue and another regarding provincial elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Public Opinion

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NANCY PELOSI (79%); HARRY REID (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Michael R Gordon; Jeff Zeleny; George W (Pres) Bush; Nancy (Speaker) Pelosi; Harry (Sen) Reid

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



184 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tax Cuts Offer Most For Very Rich, Study Finds

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Families earning more than $1 million a year saw their federal tax rates drop more sharply than any group in the country as a result of President Bush's tax cuts, according to a new Congressional study.
 The study, by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, also shows that tax rates for middle-income earners edged up in 2004, the most recent year for which data was available, while rates for people at the very top continued to decline.
 Based on an exhaustive analysis of tax records and census data, the study reinforced the sense that while Mr. Bush's tax cuts reduced rates for people at every income level, they offered the biggest benefits by far to people at the very top -- especially the top 1 percent of income earners. 
 Though tax cuts for the rich were bigger than those for other groups, the wealthiest families paid a bigger share of total taxes. That is because their incomes have climbed far more rapidly, and the gap between rich and poor has widened in the last several years. 
 The study offers ammunition to supporters and opponents of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, which are all but certain to touch off a battle between the president and the Democrats who just took control of Congress.
 Democratic leaders have taken pains to avoid an immediate fight over the tax cuts, most of which are scheduled to expire at the end of 2010. But Democrats are looking for ways to increase revenue well before then, in part because they want to spend more on education and energy without increasing the deficit.
 Economists and tax analysts have long known that the biggest dollar value of Mr. Bush's tax cuts goes to people at the very top income levels. One reason is that two of his signature measures, tax cuts on investment income and a steady reduction of estate taxes, overwhelmingly benefit the wealthiest households.
 But the Congressional study offers additional insight because it incorporates information about what people paid in 2004, the first year in which taxpayers could take full advantage of the cuts on stock dividends and capital gains.
 The study estimates that the effective federal income tax rate, which excludes payroll taxes for Social Security and Medicare, declined modestly for people in the middle- and lower-income categories. 
 Families in the middle fifth of annual earnings, who had average incomes of $56,200 in 2004, saw their average effective tax rate edge down to 2.9 percent in 2004 from 5 percent in 2000. That translated to an average tax cut of $1,180 per household, but the tax rate actually increased slightly from 2003.
 Tax cuts were much deeper, and affected far more money, for families in the highest income categories. Households in the top 1 percent of earnings, which had an average income of $1.25 million, saw their effective individual tax rates drop to 19.6 percent in 2004 from 24.2 percent in 2000. The rate cut was twice as deep as for middle-income families, and it translated to an average tax cut of almost $58,000.
 In its report, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the overall effective federal tax rate edged up to 20 percent in 2004, from 19.8 percent the year before. 
 But even with that increase, Americans faced lower tax rates than any time since 1979. If President Bush has his way, those rates could decline even more as the estate tax on inherited wealth is gradually phased out by the start of 2010.
 Mr. Bush and his Republican allies in Congress want to permanently extend that tax cut and almost all of the others that Congress passed in his first term. The cost of doing that would be more than $1 trillion over the next decade, a cost that would hit the Treasury at the same time that the spending on old-age benefits for retiring baby boomers begins to soar.
 The budget office offered little commentary on its new estimates, but many of its numbers spoke for themselves.
 The report shows that a comparatively small number of very wealthy households account for a very big share of total tax payments, and their share increased in the first four years after Mr. Bush's tax cuts.
 The top 1 percent of income earners paid about 36.7 percent of federal income taxes and 25.3 percent of all federal taxes in 2004. The top 20 percent of income earners paid 67.1 percent of all federal taxes, up from 66.1 percent in 2000, according to the budget office.
 By contrast, families in the bottom 40 percent of income earners, those with incomes below $36,300, typically paid no federal income tax and received money back from the government. That so-called negative income tax stemmed mainly from the earned-income tax credit, a program that benefits low-income parents who are employed. 
 Put another way: rich families were the undisputed winners from President Bush's tax cuts, but people in the bottom half of the earnings scale were not paying much in taxes anyway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); DIVIDENDS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); MEDICARE (73%); CENSUS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (68%) Taxation; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007



185 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FREQUENT FLIER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: I'll Have Fries and a Glass Of Your Best Champagne

BYLINE: By Marian Jansen; As told to Christopher Elliott.. 
E-mail: elliottc@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AT a recent wine tasting in Napa, Calif., my hosts made a tragic mistake: They served a big zinfandel with warm apple pie for dessert. The sweet pie stripped the fruit flavors from the wine, leaving us with mouthfuls of what tasted like tannic water. 
 ''What is this?'' some of the guests asked.
Others winced, unwilling to offend our hosts by speaking up.
 Matching food with wine is an art, of course. And while not everyone can agree on good art -- for example, is it best to pair a medium-rare filet with a merlot or pinot noir? -- everyone can agree on what is bad art. 
 Well, almost everyone. When I travel, I occasionally stumble upon a pairing that's all wrong, and so terribly misguided that I want to post a sign out front: ''Warning! Bad wine pairings!''
 Airlines are the best -- and worst -- examples of effective wine pairing. I normally fly in economy class, where salty peanuts are served as snacks. Never try to combine peanuts with any kind of wine. The nutty flavor makes the wine taste bitter. Stick with beer or a cocktail instead.
 A few months ago I flew from Los Angeles to Santiago, Chile, on American Airlines. It was one of the few times I was upgraded to business class. I ordered the chicken Madeira with vegetables, and was offered a choice of French Champagne, chablis or Bordeaux. I don't normally drink on the plane, but I made an exception for this trip. I tried all of the wines, and they were fabulous and all went well with one or more parts of the meal.
 My business trips often lead to a discovery for pairing a wine with an unusual food I would never otherwise try. Several years ago, I was having lunch at a small restaurant in Sacramento with some grape growers. We ordered a Lytton Springs Zinfandel from Sonoma County's Dry Creek region. . The soup of the day was curry.
 Strangely enough, the pairing worked deliciously. The jammy, sweet flavors of the zin complemented the spicy broth. It worked so well that I've used similar pairings in our restaurants, matching lower-tannin red wines with spicy ahi and barbecued shrimp appetizers.
 The oddest pairing that's ever worked for me happened by accident, on a trip from Los Angeles to New York a few years ago. I arrived at my destination three hours late, having subsisted on bags of peanuts for most of the day. As soon as I shut my hotel door, I opened the room service menu and scanned it for anything edible.
 Pizza? No. Mozzarella sticks? Uh-uh. Then my eyes settled on the plate of crispy French fries. Yes. Since it wasn't really a balanced meal, I overcompensated and asked for a glass of Champagne with it.
 Despite the polarity between French fries and French bubbly, all it took was a bite and a sip to convince me I'd found a perfect pairing. The acidity and the bubbles in Champagne refreshed the palate beautifully between every bite of the salty fried food.
 Since that revelation, I have a new rule. I'll try a glass of wine with anything -- at least once.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marian Jansen op de Haar is director of wine for Fleming's Prime Steakhouse restaurants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (50%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Restaurants

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Fleming's Prime Steakhouse

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Marian Jansen op de Haar; Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



186 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

GAP HIRES INVESTMENT BANK -- Gap, the casual clothing chain that turned staples like T-shirts into must-have fashions and spawned scores of imitators that nibbled away at its business, has hired Goldman Sachs to explore strategies ranging from the sale of its 3,000 stores to spinning off a single division, like Banana Republic, according to people briefed on the matter. [Page C1.] 


INSURER TO SETTLE KATRINA CLAIMS -- State Farm, the biggest home insurer in the nation, is in the final stages of settling hundreds of lawsuits over its payments for homes wrecked by Hurricane Katrina along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, lawyers briefed on the talks said. [C1.]

EYES ON DETROIT -- The North American International Auto Show, which is being held this week in Detroit, is living up to its global name. New players are coming from China and elsewhere, and there's a new pecking order in the American market, where Toyota has replaced Chrysler in the No. 3 spot behind General Motors and Ford. [C1.]

MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS RISE -- Low mortgage interest rates are buoying the housing market even as experts are debating whether the market has hit bottom. [C1.]

SMOG IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD -- As demand for electricity increases across the developing world, it is often being met through the dirtiest, most inefficient means, creating pollution in many remote areas that used to have pristine air. [C1.]

UNIVERSAL COVERAGE PROPOSED -- Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger proposed extending health care coverage to all of California's 36 million residents as part of a sweeping package of changes to the state's troubled health care system. [A1.]

STATE CONTROL IN VENEZUELA -- President Hugo Chavez said that his government would nationalize companies in the telecommunications and electricity industries, signaling a vigorous new effort to assert greater state control over Venezuela's economy. [A3.]

FEUD LEADS TO OIL CUTOFF -- Supplies of Russian crude oil headed to European markets came to a halt overnight, in the latest manifestation of rapidly deteriorating relations between Russia and Belarus. [A10.]

HEALTH CARE SPENDING SLOWS -- Spending on health care in the United States increased in 2005 at the slowest pace in six years, mostly because of much slower growth in spending on prescription drugs, the government reported. [A13.]

BIAS CITED IN FOOD STUDIES -- Research studies financed by the food industry are much more likely to produce favorable results than independently financed research, according to a report. [A15.]

FRANCE LOOSENS AD RULES -- A French ban on television advertising by supermarkets, department stores and other merchants expired at the end of 2006, in a significant loosening of one of the most restrictive marketing regulations in Europe. Advertising. [C6.]

EX-CHIEF OF ASPEN IS CHARGED -- The former chief executive of the software company Aspen Technology, David L. McQuillin, surrendered to face charges that he illegally inflated the company's software revenues as he competed to become its chief executive. [C11.]

BARBS TRADED IN NASDAQ BID -- Nasdaq and the London Stock Exchange traded trans-Atlantic insults as London exchange shareholders consider Nasdaq's $5.3 billion hostile takeover offer. [C7.]

DEALS LIFT SHARES -- Wall Street overcame early losses to close higher as a fresh round of acquisition activity helped raise investors' confidence in the economy. [C9.]

SURGERY CHAIN AGREES TO BID -- United Surgical Partners International, which runs short-stay surgery centers, has agreed to be bought out by a private equity firm for $1.8 billion, the company said. [C9.]

BORROWING ROSE IN NOVEMBER -- Borrowing by United States households rose in November by the most in three months as Americans loaded up on credit card debt to purchase gifts at the start of the holiday shopping season. [C11.]

JAPANESE FOOD INNOVATOR DIES -- Momofuku Ando, who as the founder of the Nissin Food Products Company invented those small packets of preflavored dried noodles that require just a three-minute boil, died at age 96. Mr. Ando, above, concocted the chicken-broth noodles wrapped in cellophane bags behind his house in Ikeda, Japan, 49 years ago, and the company now produces 16 flavors of what it calls Top Ramen and Cup Noodles. [C12.]

REVERSAL IN BRIDGE DEAL -- In a swift reversal, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said that it would halt plans to place billboards and other advertisements from Geico, the big auto insurer, at the bridge's toll plaza, tollbooths and approach roads. [B1.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

BOSTON SCIENTIFIC SAID -- it would eliminate 500 to 600 jobs from its cardiac rhythm division, with most of the cuts coming at a Minnesota-based office the company acquired in its $27 billion acquisition of Guidant Corporation last spring. (AP)

KRAFT FOODS SAID -- weaker-than-projected sales of its Tassimo single-serve coffee-brewing machines led to a noncash charge of $245 million in the fourth quarter. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

ADVANCED MEDICAL OPTICS, a laser vision correction company, said that it would buy a rival, the IntraLase Corporation, for about $808 million, gaining its competitor's popular blade-free technology. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices of the Gap for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HURRICANES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LITIGATION (70%); ENERGY DEMAND (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); HEALTH CARE (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); SMOG (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); ASPEN TECHNOLOGY INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (55%); AZPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%); HUGO CHAVEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (91%); CHINA (79%); BELARUS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



187 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Oil Price and Some More Mergers Lift Shares

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street overcame early losses to close higher yesterday as a drop in oil prices and a fresh round of acquisition activity helped raise investors' confidence in the economy.
 Gap, the clothing retailer, surged on a report that it was considering strategic alternatives for its business, which could include a sale. Some $6 billion worth of deals were announced, indicating that activity in mergers and acquisitions was off to a strong start in 2007 after reaching record levels last year.
Low energy prices also helped stocks reverse course from their earlier losses. Oil prices continued last week's decline, as a mild winter in the Eastern United States eased pressure on heating oil supplies. A barrel of light crude fell 22 cents, to $56.09, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Investors turned their attention toward fourth-quarter earnings reports, which start today when Alcoa posts results. Several profit warnings from companies including the airline company UAL, the electronics maker Molex and the telecommunications firm Tellabs prevented indexes from gaining broader momentum.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 25.48, or 0.21 percent, to 12,423.49. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 3.13, or 0.22 percent, at 1,412.84, and the Nasdaq composite index added 3.95, or 0.16 percent, to 2,438.20.
 Gap rose $1.37, or 7.3 percent, to $20.26, after CNBC reported the retailer had hired Goldman Sachs to plot its future. 
 General Electric agreed to acquire Vetco Gray, a supplier of equipment for oil and gas fields, for about $1.9 billion. Shares of G.E. fell 1 cent, to $37.55, in regular trading, but rose 5 cents after the close.
 The pharmacy benefit manager Caremark Rx rose 29 cents, to $56.64. Late Sunday, it rejected a $26 billion bid from a rival, Express Scripts, preferring a $22.2 billion offer from the drugstore chain CVS. Express Scripts was off 8 cents at $68.78, while CVS rose 18 cents, to $31.35.
 A profit warning from Molex sent shares down $1.52, or 4.9 percent, to $29.28. Tellabs, which makes telecommunications equipment, reduced its fourth-quarter guidance and its shares fell 47 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $10.25.
 UAL, the parent of United Airlines, picked up 25 cents, to $46.80, despite saying it expected to post a loss during the fourth quarter because of December snowstorms in the Midwest. After trading hours, UAL dropped 9 cents, to $46.71.
 Shares of St. Jude Medical, a maker of implantable defibrillators, climbed $1.95, or 5.57 percent, to close at $36.95 after it announced that fourth-quarter sales would come in at the upper end of its forecast. Analysts said St. Jude's announcement suggested that the market for the devices could be coming back. 
 St. Jude and two rivals, Boston Scientific and Medtronic, have struggled with falling sales since 2005 because of highly publicized safety problems. Medtronic's chief executive, Art Collins, said yesterday that his company planned to expand its presence in the implantable defibrillators market. Its shares rose 34 cents, to $53.70. Boston Scientific reported a 13 percent gain in defibrillator sales in the fourth quarter compared with the previous period. Its shares rose 71 cents, to $17.81. 
 Wal-Mart Stores dipped 39 cents, to $47, after it was downgraded by Goldman Sachs. 
 Bond prices were flat, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note remained at 4.65 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auctions for three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.751	97.512	High Rate	4.940	4.920	Investment Rate	5.072	5.116	Low Rate	4.900	4.880	Median Rate	4.920	4.900	Total applied for	$48,819,075	$39,604,272	Accepted	$23,894,988	$19,894,237	Noncompetitive	$1,994,301	$1,871,105	

Both issues are dated January 11, 2007. The three-month bills mature on April 12, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on July 12, 2007.

 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills
 in percent at weekly auction from October to December. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (88%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (88%); PHARMACIES (86%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (86%); SALES FIGURES (79%); PROFIT WARNINGS (79%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (74%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); OIL & GAS FIELD EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); WEATHER (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (68%); AIRLINES (68%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (68%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: GAP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (66%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); ALCOA INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); MOLEX INC (56%); TELLABS OY (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); ST JUDE MEDICAL INC (51%); MEDTRONIC INC (51%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); CVS (NYSE) (66%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); MOLX (NASDAQ) (56%); MOL (LSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); STJ (NYSE) (51%); MDT (NYSE) (51%); BSX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (92%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (66%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (51%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



188 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Rose In November

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Borrowing by United States households rose in November by the most in three months as Americans loaded up on credit card debt to purchase gifts at the start of the holiday shopping season. 
 Consumer credit, or nonmortgage loans to individuals, increased about $12.3 billion during the month, to $2.39 trillion, after a $1.3 billion decrease in October, the Federal Reserve said yesterday. Credit increased at a 6.2 percent annual rate, after falling at a 0.6 percent pace in October.
The increase suggests that consumer spending, which accounts for about two-thirds of the economy, gained strength at the end of the year.
 Economists forecast consumer credit would rise $5.2 billion in November after an originally reported $1.2 billion decline in October, according to the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Revolving debt that includes credit cards rose about $8.6 billion in November, the most since May, yesterday's report showed. Nonrevolving debt, like loans to buy cars and mobile homes, increased about $3.8 billion.
 Consumer spending has held up in the face of the housing slowdown. Personal consumption rose 2.7 percent in the third quarter and will probably rise at a higher pace in the fourth quarter, Cathy E. Minehan, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, said in a speech last week in Hartford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%) Credit

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



189 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Man Gets 30 Years in Subway Bomb Plot

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
A federal judge sentenced a 24-year-old Pakistani immigrant yesterday to 30 years in prison for plotting to bomb the Herald Square subway station in 2004, moments after the defendant apologized to the judge and prosecutors but blamed a police informer for his fate.
 The immigrant, Shahawar Matin Siraj, who has been held without bail since he and another man were arrested on Aug. 27, 2004, three days before the Republican National Convention, stood with his shoulders slumped as the judge, Nina Gershon of United States District Court in Brooklyn, meted out his sentence. 
Dressed in a blue short-sleeved prison smock with a white long-underwear shirt beneath it, Mr. Siraj offered a brief, disjointed apology before the judge pronounced sentence. He paused briefly to take two long sips of water when his voice began to break.
 He cited statements he had made about his plan to blow up the subway and his anger at America, statements that were secretly recorded by a Police Department informer who defense lawyers argued lured him into the plot. The tapes were played at the trial.
 ''Your honor I want to apologize about whatever I said in the tapes -- I wish I could take those words back but it already happened, I already said those things,'' he said. ''I'm taking responsibility for 34th Street, but I was manipulated by this person.''
 But the jury in the case, which deliberated 10 hours over two days, rejected his entrapment defense. It had centered on the paid informer, who defense lawyers said had stoked Mr. Siraj's rage with images of Muslims abused at the hands of Americans, including photographs of soldiers abusing inmates at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Mr. Siraj was convicted on May 24 on four counts of conspiracy, including the most serious, plotting to bomb a public transportation system. 
 Judge Gershon, when she handed down the sentence, noted that while some of the recordings captured Mr. Siraj saying the attack should occur at the time the station was the least busy, it would nonetheless have been deadly and devastating.
 ''The crimes committed here were extremely serious,'' she said. ''They had the potential, if not thwarted, to wreak havoc with the New York City transportation system, indeed, the tristate-area transportation system.''
 She added that such an attack would have meant enormous economic losses, disruption and loss of life.
 The men never obtained explosives, there was no timetable for an attack, and the men were not linked to any known terrorist group.
 Indeed, the informer, Osama Eldawoody, 50, told Mr. Siraj and the other man who was arrested, James Elshafay, that he worked for a fictitious group called the Brotherhood and said he would be able to provide the explosives for the plot. Mr. Elshafay began cooperating with prosecutors shortly after his arrest and also testified against Mr. Siraj.
 Under federal sentencing guidelines, Mr. Siraj, who came to the United States from Pakistan with his parents in 1999, faced 30 years to life in prison. He had turned down a plea deal offered by prosecutors under which he would have been sentenced to 10 years in prison.
 The hours of tapes played at trial revealed an angry man who raged against America, praised Osama bin Laden and predicted additional terror attacks in the United States, all while discussing his bomb plot.
 Yesterday, the courtroom was crowded, largely with news reporters and law enforcement officials. Mr. Siraj's parents, appearing stunned when the sentence was dispensed, were also in the courtroom, and his uncle sat in the last row. His mother, Shahina Parveen, dressed in a patterned light blue tunic and pants, and a white head scarf, clutched a string of pale green prayer beads that she had carried during the trial.
 After the proceeding, she began to cry as she sat on a bench outside the courtroom and talked to one of her son's lawyers, Khurrum B. Wahid, slipping a tissue behind her glasses. Later, she spoke briefly to reporters, maintaining her son's innocence and saying he would appeal.
 ''The N.Y.P.D., through a paid informant, tricked my son and got him stuck in this,'' Ms. Parveen said, as Mr. Wahid translated from the Urdu. ''He didn't do anything. I didn't get any justice. It was not a fair sentence.'' 
 But the Police Department, which investigated the case, the first in which a terrorism inquiry by its Intelligence Division led to a prosecution in federal court, hailed the sentence, calling it ''a milestone in the safeguarding of New York City.''
 ''It says that those who conspire against New York will pay a severe price,'' Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said in a statement, praising the Intelligence Division, saying it ''uncovered a murderous plot in its infancy and stopped it before lives were lost.''
 After the sentencing, Mr. Siraj's lead lawyer, Martin J. Stolar, called the prison term ''outrageous.''
 ''The New York City Police Department was able to create a crime in order to solve it, and claim a victory in the war on terror, and that's what he was sentenced as, rather than a dimwit who was manipulated'' by an informer, he said.
 But the prosecutors in the case, Todd Harrison and Marshall L. Miller, argued that Mr. Siraj was in control.
 ''He knew exactly what was going on and was the initiator of all the steps,'' Mr. Harrison said. He added that Mr. Siraj had come up with the plan, conducted surveillance of the station on his own and directed how the bombers should dress, where the bomb should be placed and what their escape route should be.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shahawar Matin Siraj (pg. B1)
 Shahina Parveen and her husband, Siraj Rehman, the parents of Shahawar Matin Siraj, leaving court after their son was sentenced. (Photo by Ramin Talaie for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); JUDGES (91%); SENTENCING (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ENTRAPMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); REFUGEES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BAIL (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (56%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (56%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%); RELIGION (50%) Terrorism; Sentences (Criminal); Pakistani-Americans; Immigration and Refugees; Bombs and Explosives; Informers; Terrorism; Entrapment, Legal

PERSON: Michael Brick; Nina (Judge) Gershon; Shahawar Matin Siraj; Osama Eldawoody

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



190 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: In '05, Medical Bills Grew At Slowest Pace in 6 Years

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
Spending on health care in the United States increased in 2005 at the slowest pace in six years, mostly because of much slower growth in spending on prescription drugs, the government reported Monday.
 It was the third consecutive year of slower growth in the nation's medical bills. Total health spending reached nearly $2 trillion in 2005, growing only a bit faster than the economy as a whole, officials said.
But with new medical technology becoming available every month and with a generation of baby boomers approaching old age, federal officials made no bold claims about having tamed health costs. 
 ''It is unclear whether this phenomenon is temporary or indicative of a longer-term trend,'' said Aaron C. Catlin, the principal author of the government's annual report on health spending, published in the journal Health Affairs.
 Health care accounted for 16 percent of the economy in 2005, measured by gross domestic product, slightly higher than the 15.9 percent share in 2004. Over all, health spending increased 6.9 percent last year, the lowest rate of growth since 1999.
 Federal officials said wages had not kept up with the growth of health spending, but, they added, the numbers did not show a huge shift in the burden of health costs from employers to employees. Households spent 6 percent of personal income on health care in 2005, up from 5.4 percent in 2001, officials said.
 The most remarkable finding was that spending on prescription drugs grew just 5.8 percent in 2005 -- to $200.7 billion, representing 10 cents of every dollar spent on health care. It was the first time since 1993 that drug spending grew more slowly than total health spending, thanks to efforts by state officials, private insurers and employers.
 Medicaid, which provides coverage for more than 50 million low-income people, accounted for much of the deceleration. Medicaid spending on prescription drugs grew an average of 15.4 percent a year from 1994 to 2004, but in 2005 it increased just 2.8 percent, said Mr. Catlin, an economist at the Department of Health and Human Services.
 States, which administer the Medicaid program, pooled their buying power, negotiated larger discounts with drug manufacturers, made greater use of low-cost generic drugs and took other steps to rein in drug spending. As a result, Mr. Catlin said, 42 states showed slower growth in Medicaid drug spending in 2005 than in 2004.
 Total spending on prescription drugs displayed a similar pattern. The total keeps rising, but the rate of increase has declined every year from its peak of 18.2 percent in 1999. Private insurers have used higher co-payments to discourage the use of certain brand-name drugs. Another reason for the slowdown, federal officials said, was a decrease in the number of new drugs approved.
 Home health care was, by far, the fastest-growing category of health spending. Spending on home care rose 11 percent, to $47.5 billion in 2005, the third straight year of double-digit growth.
 Health spending averaged $6,697 a person in 2005. But the average is somewhat misleading because health spending remained highly concentrated among a relatively small number of Americans. One percent of the population accounted for nearly one-fourth of all health spending, and 5 percent of Americans accounted for nearly one-half of all spending. 
 After remaining constant for two decades, this pattern has begun to change slightly. In recent years, officials said, spending became a little less concentrated. More of the health care dollar is being spent on prescription drugs, which are taken by a broad cross-section of the population, rather than on inpatient hospital care, which generates high costs for a smaller segment of the population.
 Spending on hospital care grew 7.9 percent in 2005, as in the prior year, while spending for doctors increased 7 percent, slightly less than in 2004. 
 ''The growing use of prescription drugs largely explains the declining concentration of health care expenditures,'' said Samuel H. Zuvekas, an economist at the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Slow Growth''Health care spending in 2005 grew at the slowest pace since 1999, mainly because of slower growth in spending on prescription drugs.Graph tracks change in spending for the following since 1990:PRESCRIPTION DRUGSTOTAL HEALTH CAREGROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT(Source by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAID (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (79%); TRENDS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); INSURANCE (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); WRITERS (69%); HOME HEALTH CARE (61%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%) Health and Human Services Department (US)

PERSON: Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



191 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: At Universities, Plum Post at Top Is Now Shaky

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
David A. Caputo, the president of Pace University, has ricocheted from one crisis to another.
 Freshman enrollment this fall at his sprawling, six-campus university in Manhattan and Westchester County plunged after a big tuition increase. That led to a sizable deficit, a hiring freeze, demonstrations, the threat of a no-confidence vote by the faculty, and attacks on his annual compensation of nearly $700,000.
 ''It's been a hell of a grim semester,'' Dr. Caputo said in a recent interview.
 Now he is fighting to save his presidency at a time when many university leaders have been ousted after faculty or student challenges. 
 The most celebrated case involved Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary who resigned the Harvard University presidency last February after a stormy five-year tenure, which included a no-confidence vote by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the prospect of another. 
 But top officials have also departed after no-confidence votes at a range of other campuses, large and small, public and private, including Gallaudet University, the nation's premier institution for the deaf; Case Western Reserve, a major research university in Ohio; Baylor University, a Baptist institution in Texas; and the small University of Maine at Presque Isle. 
 Circumstances vary, but the overthrow of Dr. Summers may have been contagious. 
 At Case Western, where the prospect of a cumulative three-year deficit of $100 million led to unrest, Lawrence Krauss, a physics and astronomy professor, said that the Harvard episode had shown him how faculty members could take action. ''I was emboldened by it,'' said Dr. Krauss, who initiated the campaign last February to oust the president, Edward M. Hundert.
 The clashes on many of the campuses reflect the increasingly uneasy relationship between those running colleges and those teaching at them, as the institutions grow more complex and the presidents become more like chief executives than stewards of academic life. 
 A university presidency, once a plum post, has become ''a position of extraordinary precariousness,'' said Richard P. Chait, a professor of higher education at Harvard. He described the no-confidence votes as signs that faculties and administrators were so much at odds that they were ''close to having irreconcilable differences.'' 
 Salary gaps contribute to the problem, as pay packages for many university presidents top $500,000. ''That sets the presidents off, compared to the rest of the faculty,'' said Ronald G. Ehrenberg, a professor of economics and industrial and labor relations at Cornell University. 
 After Indiana State University's board gave its president, Lloyd W. Benjamin III, a raise of $25,000, to $221,000, despite freezes on pay and on staff hiring, he was hit last May with a 31-7 vote of no confidence by the faculty senate. So far, he has survived.
 At Case Western, the trustees initially defended Dr. Hundert after last year's no-confidence vote by the faculty of the College of Arts and Sciences, but still he resigned within weeks. ''A president is ultimately a colleague,'' said Dr. Krauss, who had pushed for Dr. Hundert's ouster. ''But it is easy for that to disappear now, and for the president to become isolated, because the demands on them are so great.'' Presidents today are under great pressure to raise money and market their institutions, he said. 
 The turmoil of the past semester at Pace illustrates some of the same tensions and demands that have brought down so many university chiefs: financial difficulties, the personal style of the president and a quest for rapid change. 
 Founded as a business school 100 years ago, Pace still prides itself on providing professional education for first-generation college students. Today the university also has schools of law, nursing, education, computer science and information systems, and arts and sciences.
 Dr. Caputo, a political scientist who was president of Hunter College of the City University of New York, was hired six years ago. The chairman of Pace's trustees, Aniello A. Bianco, said the board wanted the university to continue its traditional role, but also wanted a president who would raise standards, improve Pace's image and elicit more donations. 
 Dr. Caputo, Mr. Bianco said, ''has done a terrific job,'' hiring faculty members with stronger credentials, helping students and faculty members win more research grants and fellowships, and doubling the proportion of alumni donors.
 In 2003, however, Dr. Caputo took a risky move, adopting a plan for guaranteed tuition. It froze tuition for each incoming class, so that students would pay the same amount for four or five years, even though the university could still raise tuition annually for each new class. 
 The gamble backfired. ''We thought it would help us attract students, but we kept waiting,'' Dr. Caputo said. ''And people were still dropping out for financial reasons.''
 That was enough of a problem for a university that has had years of flat or declining enrollment. But last spring, Pace announced that it would raise annual tuition for new students by 19 percent, to $29,454, nearly double what it charged in 1999, the year before Dr. Caputo took office. The number of new full-time freshmen plunged 23 percent in the fall, to 1,131. Faced with projections of a revenue shortfall of nearly $30 million -- about 10 percent of its budget -- the university imposed cutbacks and a hiring freeze. 
 At the same time, students came across a newspaper article that reported that Dr. Caputo received $672,239 in compensation in 2004-5. 
 The trustees said that their consultants had examined what presidents earned at similar institutions and believed the money was warranted.
 (The Chronicle of Higher Education said in November that its annual survey of compensation found that among leaders of 853 universities, colleges and specialized schools, 112 were paid at least $500,000.)
 But many Pace students and faculty members objected. Nancy R. Reagin, a professor of history and the chairwoman of women's and gender studies, called Dr. Caputo's salary ''obscene.''
 Lauren A. Giaccone, a senior who helped lead a protest against the president in November, said at the time, ''He is making $700,000 at the same time that he has raised tuition, decreased financial aid, raised housing rates and increased the price of the meal plan.''
 Many faculty members say that the president does not communicate enough and that his manner is grating. ''Our former president we called Pat,'' said Sid Ray, a professor of English and women's and gender studies, referring to Patricia Ewers. ''But he is President Caputo.'' 
 In the interview, Dr. Caputo said: ''I'll accept some criticism. But I've tried to be open. I spend a great deal of time trying to be accessible. But obviously it's not accessible enough.''
 In October, Pace's Joint Faculty Council presented him and the board with a set of demands, including eliminating the tuition-guarantee plan or making it optional; appointing a faculty member to the board; and rolling back Dr. Caputo's salary to its 2001 level ($287,500, with an additional $61,000 in benefits), adjusted for inflation. 
 Struggling to hold off a no-confidence vote, Dr. Caputo and the board offered an eight-page response. Dr. Caputo conceded that the relationship between faculty and administrators was ''not as it should be.'' 
 He announced that Pace would add a faculty member to its board of nearly 30 trustees; eliminate the guaranteed tuition plan; and not raise tuition next year. He did not say he would cut his salary. He and Mr. Bianco, Pace's chairman, also said they would try to improve their dialogue with the faculty. 
 Relations between Dr. Caputo and the faculty have remained testy, especially after the New York City police arrested five students, including three from Pace, who were demonstrating on campus in November and calling for the president's resignation. Two were jailed overnight. Pace officials had called the police; Dr. Caputo said the students did not have permission for their protest. 
 Some faculty members responded with their own demonstration last month. More than 100 people turned out, with signs that read, ''Defend Freedom of Expression'' and ''We Protest Student Arrests.'' 
 Dr. Caputo met for more than an hour with faculty members and students after the December demonstration, but many participants said they were still dissatisfied. Last week, the Joint Faculty Council asked that the board to include faculty members in its deliberations on a new financial plan, and Dr. Caputo suggested in a conciliatory response that they consider meeting with him. For now, the question of a no-confidence vote remains up in the air. 

Dispute Arises Over Film on Islam
 The president of a Jewish student group at Pace University accused Pace administrators yesterday of trying to stop the group, Hillel, from showing a documentary, ''Obsession: Radical Islam's War Against the West,'' after Muslim students objected. 
 Michael Abdurakhmanov, a junior who is the Hillel president, said that he had invited the Muslim Students Association to suggest a speaker for the program, but that the association instead notified a dean. 
 He said the dean had advised him not to show the film last fall and suggested that if he did, the police could be called in and Hillel members could be considered suspects in acts of bias against Muslims. 
 Not long before, copies of the Koran, the holy book of Islam, had been found tossed in toilets at Pace. 
 Christopher T. Cory, a Pace spokesman, said yesterday that the university had never told Hillel not to show the film, but had cautioned that it would need to notify the police if it expected that an event might incite violence. 
 Mr. Abdurakhmanov said Hillel planned to show the film in the spring. Zeina Berjaoui, president of the Muslim group, said she would oppose showing the movie then, too.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher Malone, a faculty member, protesting the arrest of student demonstrators at Pace University. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. B2)
 David A. Caputo, Pace president. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (68%); DEAFNESS (67%); PHYSICS (66%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (64%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Wages and Salaries; Tuition; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (55%) Pace University; Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%) Karen W Arenson; David A Caputo; Lawrence H (Dr) Summers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



192 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Applications Up as Home Buyers See a Break in Rates 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Low mortgage interest rates are buoying the housing market even as experts are debating whether the market has hit bottom.
 The recent decline in rates has been relatively small, and there is still concern that the slump will worsen in the spring when more homes come on the market. But the low rates, real estate and mortgage brokers say, have still provided a significant boost to their business, which had dropped significantly from 2005, the best year for home sales in history.
Lower rates get ''them off the fence,'' said Tom Carlson, an agent at Pacific Union GMAC Real Estate in San Francisco. ''There's a sense of urgency that mortgage rates probably will rise.''
 The national average for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is now 6.04 percent, after peaking at 6.8 percent in late June, according to Bankrate. (These rates are averages for what consumers can expect to pay nationally for conventional home loans.) 
 Mortgage applications, while they are some distance from their peak during the housing boom a year ago, surged 30 percent in early December from their summer lows as buyers took advantage of falling prices and low rates to buy homes before the holidays.
 Daniel and Marcie Quaroni were part of that surge. Last month, the couple agreed to pay $560,000 for a four-bedroom colonial with cathedral ceilings in Waltham, Mass., near Boston; they have a 30-year mortgage at a fixed rate of 5.88 percent. The young couple had fruitlessly searched for a house in the summer only to realize they could not afford to buy the kind of home they wanted.
 Now, however, they have enough money left over to spend nearly $15,000 on improvements like a new air-conditioner, gas stove, granite tile and a new coat of paint.
 ''You're talking about a couple of hundred dollars a month'' in savings with lower rates, said Mr. Quaroni, a 28-year-old software engineer. ''That definitely impacts the bottom line. It's basically like we're getting free heat.''
 For their cheaper home loans, the Quaronis and other home buyers can thank bond investors, including Asian central banks and hedge funds, who have been lending billions of dollars to the federal government. Mortgage rates are closely tied to the yield on the 10-year Treasury note. After a bout of inflation worries pushed it above 5 percent last summer, the yield on the 10-year note fell to as low as 4.424 percent last month amid hopes that the Federal Reserve would need to cut interest rates this year. 
 ''It's low long-term interest rates that are helping to provide the safety net for housing,'' said Delores A. Conway, director of the Casden Real Estate Economics Forecast at the University of Southern California. 
 Yesterday, however, the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Donald L. Kohn, dispelled some of the hopes for a rate cut by saying that inflation remained a worry even as lower energy prices help reduce its threat. 
 ''Despite the recent favorable price data, I believe it is still too early to relax our concerns about whether the run-up in price pressures in the spring and summer of last year is truly unwinding,'' he said at a speech before the Atlanta Rotary Club. 
 There are also some who are skeptical about a soft landing for housing, noting that sales are still far lower than a year ago and that the number of homes on the market will take more than seven months to sell off. They note that many sellers took their homes off the market late last year after being unable to sell at their desired price. Many of those properties could flood back on the market in the spring, which is the busiest part of the sales year. 
 While still low, yields and interest rates have been inching back up of late. Since early December, for instance, the yield on the 10-year Treasury has risen from 4.42 percent to 4.65 percent yesterday, after recent reports suggested that the economy was growing faster than earlier thought. The rate on the 30-year conventional mortgage climbed back to 6.04 percent, from 5.8 percent. 
 Mortgage applications have fallen since peaking in early December, though at least some of that is probably a function of a seasonal slowdown during the holidays.
 Ms. Conway and many other economists do not expect yields and rates to rise significantly from current levels in the coming 12 months. 
 Still, a sustained climb in interest rates could hit some parts of the housing market harder than others. The East and West Coasts and the Southwest remain vulnerable because a surge of new construction has left them with a big inventory of homes for sale.
 If rates ''keep going down, it will help,'' said W. Scott Simon, a managing director at Pimco Advisors. ''But it postpones the inevitable. You still have massive amounts of inventory on the market.''
 Furthermore, many borrowers may not be able to take advantage of the current lower interest rates because banking regulators issued rules late last year to tighten lending standards on adjustable-rate mortgages and other loans made to borrowers with poor credit scores, known as subprime loans. 
 Under the regulations, banks will have to judge the creditworthiness of borrowers by whether they can afford to make monthly payments at the highest interest rates possible under hybrid loans that start with low, introductory rates.
 ''The ability to get credit is tightening, especially in subprime,'' Mr. Simon said.
 Adjustable-rate loans, which drove the boom in home prices in California and other formerly hot housing markets, have also lost much of their attractiveness. The rates on such mortgages are more closely tied to short-term rates, which rose steadily in 2005 and 2006 and have remained high even as longer-term rates have fallen. For instance, the rate on a one-year adjustable rate loan was 5.12 percent yesterday, up from 4 percent in early 2005, according to Bankrate.
 ''The housing bubble was worst in areas where people were using adjustable-rate mortgages,'' said David Kelly, a senior economic adviser at Putnam Investments, the mutual fund company. ''In those bubble areas, the slide may continue for a while.''
 In an odd twist, the interests of the housing market are aligned, at least for the time being, with a slow-growing economy that keeps inflation at bay, encourages investors to lend and allows the Fed to start cutting interest rates this year. 
 ''We really need that outcome for a gradual upswing on the sales side,'' said David Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders.
 By contrast, strong growth, which is typically considered good for housing, could send inflation higher and prompt the Fed to raise interest rates, spooking bond investors and driving up mortgage interest rates. Another threat would be any move by big foreign investors like the central banks of Japan and China to reduce their purchases of United States Treasury securities.
 Jeffrey J. Jaye, a mortgage broker in Danville, Calif., said he had seen a flood of applications from people looking to buy and refinance their mortgages in December, a usually quiet period of the year. Many are moving from adjustable-rate loans to fixed-rate mortgages, he added. 
 ''They are seeing the big adjustment coming,'' said Mr. Jaye, who is the executive vice president of the Upfront Mortgage Brokers Association, a trade group. ''They are taking advantage of the lower-rate environment.''
 So, is the worst over for housing? For at least some experts, that is too great a leap to make, especially with data showing that residential building continues to slow around the country even with lower mortgage rates providing a boost to sales and to refinancing activity.
 ''We are close to the bottom, but I don't think we have hit bottom as far as construction news is concerned,'' said Frank E. Nothaft, a vice president and chief economist at Freddie Mac, the buyer of mortgages. ''What we will probably see is a couple more bumpy reports before we hit the trough. Longer term, I do think the outlook is very positive for the housing sector as long as we continue to have economic growth and mortgage rates at the 6 to 7 percent rate.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel and Marcie Quaroni bought their home as rates fell. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Marcie and Daniel Quaroni in their new home in Waltham, Mass. They will use savings from lower interests rates for home improvements. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Stimulating Borrowing''As mortgage rates have been declining from their peak in 2006, applications for them have generally been increasing.Graphs track the following, daily, over 2005 and 2006:Average 30-year fixed-rate mortgageMortgage applications (Mortgage Bankers Association's mortgage applications index, weekly [seasonally adjusted])(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); BONDS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Behavior

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; Christine Haughney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



193 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Common Sense on the Census

 BODY:
Last November, the director of the Census Bureau, C. Louis Kincannon, and the deputy director, Hermann Habermann, abruptly decided to quit, acknowledging tensions with their bosses in the Bush administration but giving no other details. Both men are statisticians who had served in their positions since 2002 and, before that, had decades of experience as civil servants. 
 The leadership problems -- on top of severe budget cuts -- threaten to throw the preparations for the 2010 census into disarray. At stake is the accuracy of the next count and, with it, the legitimacy of important decisions that are rooted in the census, including the drawing of electoral districts and the allocation of government resources.
Various steps must be taken now to ensure an accurate count, starting with an investigation by the committees that oversee the bureau -- Oversight and Government Reform in the House, and Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs in the Senate -- into why the men quit. This will clear up a distracting mystery and is necessary to ensure that the new directors do not confront the same obstacles. 
 Equally important, the appropriations committees in the House and Senate must quickly act to restore the roughly $50 million cut by the previous Congress from President Bush's 2007 budget request for the bureau. Otherwise, the agency may have to forgo using hand-held computers for the next census, relying instead on paper and pencil, which is less accurate and would probably be more expensive in the long run because of its inefficiency.
 An alternative and equally unacceptable way to cut costs would be to delay the economic census, which is currently conducted every five years and which serves as the benchmark for dozens of other government surveys, including reports on inflation, construction activity and retail sales. 
 Carlos Gutierrez, the secretary of commerce, should be pounding the tables in Congress to get this money; failure to do so would suggest that the administration is trying to undermine the census. For his part, Mr. Bush must swiftly nominate a new director -- a nonpartisan, professional statistician with solid management experience.
 Mr. Kincannon has graciously agreed to remain until his replacement is confirmed, but moving forward requires a new director. For the deputy director position, administration officials must resist any temptation to make a political appointment and should choose instead a top-notch statistician from the bureau's career ranks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (69%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (55%); RETAIL SALES (50%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%) Population; Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%) Census Bureau

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (57%) Charles Louis Kincannon; Hermann Habermann; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



194 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Some Progress in Global Trade Effort 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
Trade envoys from the United States and Europe said on Monday that they had made progress in resolving differences to break an impasse on global trade negotiations, but they declined to say specifically where the differences had narrowed. 
 ''We are clearly making progress,'' the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said after a day of talks with Peter Mandelson, the European Union's commissioner for trade. ''Perhaps there's some showing of momentum here.''
Mr. Mandelson, who has tangled sometimes bitterly with Ms. Schwab in the last year, said he had come to Washington ''looking for new impetus, and I believe we've found it.'' 
 He said his new confidence was inspired not only by his talks with President Bush but also by those with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the new Senate majority leader, Harry Reid. The Democratic leaders and many members of Congress were recently elected on promises to be more skeptical of trade deals.
 The comments of Ms. Schwab and Mr. Mandelson came after a session between Mr. Bush and Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission. Both pledged in general terms to try again to complete a world trade accord in coming weeks. 
 Mr. Barroso, speaking at the White House, said he and the president had instructed trade envoys ''to come up with a solution'' on issues that have divided the United States and Europe for years. The principal issue has been over lowering barriers to trade of agriculture products. 
 ''There is now the defining moment,'' Mr. Barroso said. ''Of course, it is important to engage also others, because this is a real global agreement that we are trying to build.''
 Mr. Bush said that both the United States and Europe recognized ''that the best way to help impoverished nations'' would be to complete the current round of talks, known as the Doha round, after the city in Qatar where the talks started. 
 The trade talks were suspended last summer by the director general of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, when it became apparent that Europe and the United States could not reach agreement on lowering tariffs and subsidies on farm goods.
 The final offer of the United States then was to limit farm subsidies to $22.5 billion a year, less than half what the United States is entitled to impose under current agreements. But because the actual amount of subsidies for 2005 was $19.7 billion, Europeans claimed that the United States was trying to increase subsidies, not lower them. 
 The Bush administration has called on Europe to lower its tariffs on farm products by more than 50 percent of their current level. A coalition of rich and poor nations has called on Europe to lower tariffs by 36 percent.
 Mr. Lamy has said that a final trade agreement can occur only if the United States and Europe increase what they are willing to do, and decrease what they are demanding from the other side. But on both sides, farmers make up powerful political blocs, even though they account for less than 5 percent of the population and of the economy. 
 By itself, a European and American agreement on farm subsidies would not produce a breakthrough. A global deal on trade would require participation by India and some other poor countries that are resisting demands that they lower their barriers on farm goods and on manufactured goods and services.
 With millions of its citizens depending on subsistence farming, India is resisting lower tariffs for farm goods. Kamal Nath, the top Indian trade envoy, has said that the Doha trade talks should recognize the plight of poor farmers and not ask them to sacrifice in order to get rich countries to open their markets. 
 Negotiators are operating under a timetable that top officials say may be impossible to meet. Bush's legislative authority to negotiate a trade deal, and to get an up-or-down vote on it, expires June 30. Many experts say it will be impossible to meet that deadline for wrapping up a trade deal. 
 Mr. Lamy has said that if the broad outlines of a trade accord can be negotiated by March, then he hopes the Bush administration may ask Congress to extend Mr. Bush's trade negotiating authority by another six months so that the deal can be completed. 
 But Democrats and Republicans in Congress said they doubted that Congress would be willing to extend trade negotiating authority past June 30. More likely, they say, Congress will let the deadline slip and allow a new Congress and president in 2009 to negotiate over trade authority.
 European officials say that Europe has signaled a willingness to lower tariffs on specific products that the United States hopes to export, particularly poultry, beef and pork. 
 But Europe has other sorts of trade barriers that American farmers and ranchers say are blocking exports to Europe, like rules barring certain kinds of cleaning processes for chicken used by American producers. Also barred are the levels of hormone for beef used by Americans.
 It was not clear whether any of these barriers were on the table in the talks this week.

Canada Seeks Talks Over Subsidies
By The New York Times

 OTTAWA, Jan. 8 -- Canada has asked the World Trade Organization to start talks between it and the United States about American farm subsidies in general and its support of corn growers in particular. 
 ''Canada is concerned that these U.S. subsidies continue to cause economic harm to our corn farmers,'' the Canadian agriculture minister, Chuck Strahl, said in a statement.
 ''That's why we took the action we did, in order to provide the best possible support for our producers by pushing for a level playing field so that they can compete.'' Jennifer Chiu, a spokeswoman for David Emerson, the international trade minister, said that Canada did not have specific demands at this point. The Canadian government, however, noted in its statement that if the United States does not reduce its farm subsidies, Canada will ask the W.T.O. to begin a formal dispute settlement hearing on the issue.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Susan C. Schwab is the United States trade representative. (Photo by Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg News)
 Peter Mandelson is the European Union's commissioner for trade. (Photo by Paul O'Driscoll/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); AGRICULTURE (50%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) European Union

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (91%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PASCAL LAMY (58%); HARRY REID (56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%) Susan C Schwab; Peter (Comr) Mandelson; Jose Manuel Barroso; George W (Pres) Bush; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); QATAR (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



195 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Moves to Nationalize 2 Industries

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Jens Gould contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez signaled a vigorous new effort to assert greater control over Venezuela's economy on Monday by announcing plans to nationalize companies in the telecommunications and electricity industries.
 Mr. Chavez, who will be sworn in Wednesday to another six-year term, announced his plans at the swearing-in of his new cabinet to a cheering crowd of supporters, sending a chilling message to foreign investors.
American corporations, including Verizon Communications, have large stakes in Venezuela's largest telecommunications company, CANTV, and its biggest publicly traded electricity company, Electricidad de Caracas. 
 ''Let it be nationalized,'' Mr. Chavez said of CANTV. ''All that was privatized, let it be nationalized.'' 
 Financial markets appeared to be caught off-guard by Mr. Chavez's announcement, as speculators reacted with a sell-off of assets that would be affected by the decision. Shares in CANTV plunged 14 percent in New York trading. Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, fell as much as 20 percent in black market trading here on Monday, traders said.
 The announcement was the latest in a series of bold steps Mr. Chavez has taken since his re-election in December to consolidate his power and move Venezuela toward what he calls a socialist revolution. Mr. Chavez said he would also seek a ''revolutionary enabling law'' from Congress that would allow him to approve bills by decree, as well as a measure stripping the central bank of its autonomy. 
 ''While this is a break with the past, it is consistent with Chavez's drive to concentrate ever greater power in his hands and the hands of his government,'' said Robert Bottome, editor and publisher of Veneconomia, a business newsletter.
 Last month, Mr. Chavez announced plans to meld the broad coalition of parties that support him into a single socialist party, raising concerns that he was following in the footsteps of Fidel Castro. 
 On Monday, in addition to the telecommunications and electricity nationalizations, Mr. Chavez also appeared to signal that he wanted control over four multibillion-dollar oil projects in the Orinoco River basin, which he said should become ''state property.'' 
 It was not clear what Mr. Chavez meant, however, since Venezuela's government already has stakes in those ventures together with some of the world's largest private oil companies, including Exxon Mobil, Chevron, BP and ConocoPhillips. 
 Venezuela, which has the largest conventional oil reserves outside the Middle East, has already increased its control over numerous oil production ventures in the past year. The largest consumer of Venezuelan oil, of course, remains the United States, despite efforts by Mr. Chavez to export larger quantities of oil to China and other Asian markets.
 Details were vague as to how any of the nationalization plans would play out. For instance, Mr. Chavez omitted from his remarks whether Venezuela would compensate foreign investors for their holdings or expropriate them outright. He has already clashed with investors over small-scale takeovers of farms and even a tomato-processing plant owned by H. J. Heinz, but his government has negotiated settlements with owners in those cases.
 The nationalizations would, at least for Venezuela, reverse a trend that got under way in Latin America in the 1990s, when governments throughout the region sold many of their assets, particularly state telephone companies, to private investors. Those deals, together with the auction of licenses to provide wireless phone services, led to a sharp increase in the usage of such services among poorer Venezuelans. 
 They would also be a significant shift of Mr. Chavez's economic policies since he became president in 1999. Though Mr. Chavez steadily adopted more strident rhetoric, he let most of Venezuela's private companies operate unfettered as long they did not actively engage in politics.
 But with his re-election in December, Mr. Chavez seems determined to use the momentum -- and margin -- of his victory to solidify his power and deepen his socialist policies in ways that are increasingly unnerving his opponents. 
 Supporters of Mr. Chavez already control every institution in the federal government, including Congress and the Supreme Court, so it was unclear what hindrances Mr. Chavez was attempting to overcome by seeking expanded powers. 
 Mr. Chavez is also going forward with a plan to effectively take RCTV, a television station that persistently criticizes his government, off the air in May by not renewing its broadcast license. The move has drawn fierce criticism both here and abroad, with critics claiming it will restrict freedom of expression.
 On Monday, Mr. Chavez described one of the most prominent critics of the decision, Jose Miguel Insulza, the general secretary of the Organization of American States, in a vulgar term that loosely translates as ''idiot.'' Mr. Chavez also called on Mr. Insulza to resign.
 Flush with more than $50 billion in revenue from oil exports, Mr. Chavez is also retooling Venezuela's economy to focus on what his economic theorists describe as ''endogenous development'' that prioritizes the domestic production of agricultural goods and industrial products from worker-owned cooperatives.
 Venezuela has undergone a nationalization push before, when the populist government of Carlos Andres Perez took control of companies in various sectors, including the oil industry, in the 1970s. The economy, however, suffered from poor growth and inefficient services after oil prices crashed in the 1980s, leading subsequent administrations to privatize state companies and open the oil industry to foreign investment.
 American companies reacted cautiously to Mr. Chavez's comments on Monday. ''Verizon has of course been carefully monitoring the news reports on President Chavez's comments today,'' said Eric Rabe, a spokesman for Verizon, which has had a large stake in CANTV since the early 1990s. ''We are not aware of the details of the government's plan and therefore cannot comment at this time.''
 While Mr. Chavez referred specifically to the telephone company CANTV, his nationalization plans for the electricity sector remained unclear. The AES Corporation of Arlington, Va., controls Electricidad de Caracas, but did not acquire the company through a privatization auction. Robin Pence, a spokeswoman for AES, declined to comment.
 CMS Energy of Jackson, Mich., controls an electricity utility that provides power to Margarita Island that it bought from the Venezuelan government in the 1990s. Jeffrey Holyfield, a spokesman for CMS, said the company had a ''good relationship'' with Mr. Chavez's government but was awaiting more details about its plan before it could comment.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, swore in cabinet ministers yesterday. He will be sworn in Wednesday. (Photo by Francesco Spotorno/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONALIZATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (86%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (79%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (79%); POLITICS (79%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); RIVERS (64%); APPROVALS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%) Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Telephones and Telecommunications; Electric Light and Power; Nationalization of Industry; Freedom of the Press; Television; United States International Relations

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (80%); CA LA ELECTRICIDAD DE CARACAS SAIC-SACA (71%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); CA NACIONAL TELEFONOS DE VENEZUELA (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%) Organization of American States

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (80%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (80%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (80%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (80%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (80%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (80%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (80%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (71%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) Simon Romero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Jose Miguel (Min) Insulza

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



196 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats' Security Bill Draws Doubt, Even Inside Party

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
House Democrats intend to fulfill a campaign promise this week by passing broad new antiterrorism legislation, but some Senate Democrats and the Bush administration object to security mandates in the plan, citing concerns about their cost and practicality.
 The House measure, the Sept. 11 Commission Bill, is intended to write into law recommendations by the group that investigated the 2001 terror attacks. They include initiatives intended to disrupt global black markets for nuclear weapons technology and to enhance cargo inspection.
''Today marks a giant leap forward toward a safer and more secure America,'' said Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi, the new chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, as he unveiled the bill Friday. 
 But the proposed legislation, which could come to a vote as early as Tuesday, goes beyond what the Sept. 11 commission recommended, taking up measures previously favored by Democratic lawmakers but opposed by the Department of Homeland Security.
 The bill requires that within three years, all cargo on passenger jets be inspected for explosives, as checked baggage is now. The House bill also requires that within five years all ship cargo containers headed to the United States be scanned overseas for components of a nuclear bomb. 
 Homeland Security Department officials say there is no proven technology for such comprehensive cargo screening, at least at a reasonable cost or without causing worldwide bottlenecks in trade. The screening for air cargo is estimated to cost $3.6 billion over the next decade, and ship inspections could cost even more. ''Inspecting every container could cause ports to literally shut down,'' said Russ Knocke, a Homeland Security spokesman.
 Many Republicans and some Senate Democratic committee chairmen said that the goal of 100 percent inspections was worthy, but that they were not convinced that mandates should be included in the bill.
 ''Airplane passengers must be assured that any cargo on a passenger jet will not pose a terrorist threat,'' said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, who now leads the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee. ''But we must achieve these goals in an efficient manner to allow for the free flow of commerce without placing undue economic burdens on importers or bringing air traffic to a standstill.''
 The Sept. 11 commission said in its 2004 report that any proposed new security measures must be carefully considered, weighing the cost and benefit of any one step, like inspecting cargo, against others that could be taken, like protecting planes against shoulder-fired missiles.
 The commission recommended, for example, that passenger planes be equipped with hardened, bomb-resistant containers for some cargo, instead of moving immediately to inspect every cargo shipment. 
 Homeland Security Department officials said they were researching ways to inspect more air and sea cargo. The agency has tests planned this year at three ports in Pakistan, Honduras and England, where all ship containers headed for the United States will be checked for radioactive substances or dense objects that might be hiding a bomb. 
 Until then, the department intends to follow its existing security procedures, which include mandatory inspections of the small fraction of cargo containers deemed suspicious because of the sender, the destination or the contents, among other factors. 
 Currently, about 30 percent of air cargo on passenger planes is inspected by dogs or screening devices, while about 5 percent of all incoming ship containers are sent through a device like an X-ray machine.
 Mr. Lieberman and Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, the new chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, want the security department to complete its tests on new technology before mandating inspection of all cargo.
 But Mr. Thompson, the chief author of the House bill, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said the timetables were essential to push the department to move faster. 
 ''We need firm deadlines to end the administration's foot-dragging,'' Mr. Schumer said Monday.
 The push for 100 percent screening of all ship cargo containers first became a top priority for Democrats last year after the Bush administration proposed allowing a Dubai company to assume management of a half-dozen United States ship terminal operations. Democrats said then that they recognized the idea was compelling not only to increase security, but also as a political pitch as they tried to buttress their credentials as a party that takes domestic security seriously.
 Part of the skepticism about the mandate for 100 percent screening is that even if the equipment is installed, it is not clear it would do much to prevent an attack, some security experts said.
 The radiation detection equipment now in use, for example, probably would not pick up a crucial radioactive substance for a nuclear weapon if the material was shielded. And even if all cargo containers were checked, terrorists could find other ways to smuggle weapons into the United States, including on private boats or ships that carry cars, which would not be not covered by the inspection mandates.
 ''Tax dollars should not be spent on what makes for the best election-year bumper sticker, but on initiatives that offer the most security for the dollar spent,'' said James Jay Carafano, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington, and a critic of the 100 percent inspection requirement.
 Aside from the cargo inspection mandates, other security measures proposed by Democrats have a greater chance of becoming law.
 The House bill calls for changes in the way some $2 billion a year in state and local domestic security grants are distributed, so that the money is more based on risk. A separate bill has been introduced in the Senate that would provide antiterrorism grants for Amtrak, freight railroads and other transit systems, a plan that previously passed the Senate but was opposed by House Republican leaders.
 Mr. Thompson said that with the Democrats now in charge the party had a chance to push forward at least some of these measures, although he said he recognized compromise might be necessary before they were signed into law.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker Nancy Pelosi discussed plans yesterday to adopt recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission. With her were Timothy J. Roemer, left, a commission member, Representatives Kirsten Gillibrand, David R. Obey and Bennie Thompson and Lee H. Hamilton, a co-chairman. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HIJACKING (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); AIRLINES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (76%); AIR FREIGHT (76%) Terrorism; Law and Legislation; Bombs and Explosives; Security and Warning Systems; Ships and Shipping; Ports; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: BENNIE THOMPSON (74%); DAVE OBEY (59%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Eric Lipton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (79%) United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



197 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Bolivia Leader Lets Venezuela Send Soldiers, Angering Foes

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
Political opponents of President Evo Morales of Bolivia have in recent days stepped up criticism of the country's strengthening military relationship with Venezuela after Bolivian officials acknowledged that more than two dozen uniformed members of the Venezuelan military had recently entered the country without congressional approval.
 Jorge Quiroga, a former president of Bolivia and a prominent critic of Mr. Morales's alliance with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, accused Mr. Morales in a statement on Saturday of ''trampling national sovereignty.'' 
Legislators from Santa Cruz, a redoubt of anti-Morales sentiment in eastern Bolivia, previously criticized the unannounced arrival of about 30 Venezuelan military officials at Trompillo Airport there on Dec. 28.
 President Morales has been facing increasing tension in eastern provinces seeking greater political autonomy from his administration. Part of the dispute stems from the Bolivian Congress's approval of a wide-reaching military cooperation pact with Venezuela, in a legislative session in November that opponents say was marred by irregularities.
 Mr. Morales has also begun an ambitious land reform program that could encourage tens of thousands of highland peasants to move to the east, unsettling regional leaders there who view the project as a threat to their interests.
 Venezuela's defense minister, Gen. Raul Isaias Baduel, rushed to defend the deployment to Bolivia. The presence of Venezuelan soldiers in Bolivia does not violate Bolivian sovereignty, he said in comments issued Friday night through Venezuela's official news agency.
 ''This could be qualified as humanitarian aid, with what we know of Bolivia's economic limitations,'' General Baduel said. 
 Venezuelan officials, including the country's ambassador in Bolivia, have been on the defensive in recent weeks as critics of Mr. Morales have raised fears over growing Venezuelan military involvement in Bolivia. The Bolivian defense minister, Walker San Miguel, said last week that the Venezuelans were there to assist in the piloting and maintenance of two Super Puma helicopters that Venezuela had put at Mr. Morales's disposal for travel within Bolivia. 
 Venezuela is also helping the Bolivian Army to build border posts and improve its military presence in the eastern lowlands, efforts that Mr. Morales's opponents say have more to do with intimidating his critics than protecting Bolivia's frontier from Brazil or Paraguay.
 As United States influence in Bolivia has waned, Venezuela has stepped in to provide as much as $50 million in loans for military spending since Mr. Morales assumed the presidency a year ago.
 In addition, Venezuela has counseled Mr. Morales on his economic policies and formed ventures with Bolivia's national energy company as he took greater control over the energy industry last year from multinational companies. As Venezuela raises its profile in Bolivia, Mr. Morales has emerged as Mr. Chavez's closest ally in South America. Resistance to the alliance has been vocal in Bolivia and here in Caracas.
 Still, Mr. Morales seems to have cannily asserted his influence over a wary officer corps as he presses forward with efforts to promote more indigenous soldiers into the upper ranks of the armed forces, where a light-skinned, Europeanized elite remains dominant. 
 One of Mr. Morales's first moves as president was a purge of senior generals and other officials from the army after a scandal in which they were accused of allowing military technicians from the United States to dismantle more than two dozen antiquated Chinese-made shoulder-fired missiles, considered Bolivia's sole antiaircraft defense.
 Some of the deposed officials have been explicitly critical of Mr. Morales's ties to Mr. Chavez and to Cuba's government. Gen. Marcelo Antezana, who was fired by Mr. Morales as army commander, said in September that there was discontent in the armed forces over what was viewed as subjugation to ''Caribbean mulattoes'' of a ''Cuba-Venezuela axis.''
 An outcry followed published remarks by Julio Montes, Venezuela's ambassador in La Paz, who said last month that Venezuela would consider military intervention on Mr. Morales's behalf in case of a crisis. Mr. Montes later amended his comments, saying he was referring to assistance in general and not the deployment of troops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); HELICOPTERS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%) Simon Romero; Evo (Pres) Morales

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); BOLIVIA (99%); PARAGUAY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) Bolivia; Venezuela; Bolivia

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



198 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: White House Gears Up to Sell Plan for Troop Increase in Iraq 

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
The White House is planning an aggressive effort to sell Congress and the American public on President Bush's new strategy for Iraq, beginning with a prime-time address to the nation on Wednesday night, followed Thursday by a presidential trip to Fort Benning, Ga., and appearances on Capitol Hill by the secretaries of state and defense.
 With Democrats vowing to oppose any plan to send more troops to Iraq, and some Republicans openly skeptical, Mr. Bush and his aides are already in the thick of an intense sales pitch. It began on Monday, when the president had back-to-back meetings with Republican senators, urging them to hear him out before passing judgment on his plan. 
The sessions stood in stark contrast to the bipartisan meetings Mr. Bush held with lawmakers on Friday. Senators attending those sessions said that Mr. Bush was careful not to reveal his thinking about whether he was committed to the plan to increase troops. By Monday, though, he made his intentions clear.
 ''It was clear that he has thought long and hard about this change in strategy,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who supports the troop increase. ''He emphasized that this is not just about more troops. That's just one small component of it. It's a change in economic, military and political strategy.''
 White House officials were still planning details of the speech on Monday. The president's aides were contemplating having Mr. Bush deliver it from the White House Map Room, a site replete with the history and imagery of World War II -- imagery that Mr. Bush has invoked as he has sought to compare the campaign against terrorism to the struggle against totalitarianism and the Nazis. But the Oval Office, a more traditional setting, was also being considered.
 Mr. Bush's aides are planning a highly orchestrated introduction of the plan. Before Wednesday night's speech, which is expected to last about 25 minutes, reporters will receive briefings from senior administration officials, and leading members of Congress will be notified of the president's intentions. 
 On Thursday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates are scheduled to testify before Congress, and both are expected to make trips to the Middle East soon to drum up support from international allies.
 ''All the world is really watching,'' the White House press secretary, Tony Snow, said Monday, ''and it is important to get this right.'' 
 The president himself will go on the road on Thursday, to Fort Benning, a site chosen because its soldiers are heavily involved in operations in Iraq. A senior administration official involved in shaping the strategy said the president would follow Wednesday night's speech with less formal remarks to the troops.
 ''He will thank them, and explain, just like he will have the night before to the American people, some of the specifics of the new way forward,'' the official said. 
 The official said the strategy also included continuing consultation with members of Congress. ''It's not just one speech,'' the official said. ''This is so complicated you couldn't do it all in one speech. So there will be an ongoing and sustained effort to educate the American people.''
 Despite Mr. Bush's insistence that he does not govern by polls, the White House is acutely aware that a vast majority of the American public disapproves of the job Mr. Bush is doing in Iraq. But advisers to the president believe that the public is willing to give Mr. Bush another chance -- especially if he puts forth a policy that is heavy on specifics. 
 The president's advisers are also mindful of polls showing that while the public wants the situation to improve in Iraq, it does not necessarily favor immediate withdrawal.
 ''They're going to cast it as a choice between withdrawal and surge,'' said one Republican strategist close to the White House. ''The public is not for immediate withdrawal or even a quick withdrawal, but they're not for the status quo. I think they feel as if the public is more likely to support the president's position, which is putting a stake in the ground in Iraq and saying were going to try to win.''
 The hope is that Mr. Bush can win over the public, and bring Congress along. But it might be a tough sell. At the White House, Mr. Bush told skeptical senators that he came away from a recent meeting in Jordan with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq persuaded that Mr. Maliki was committed to moving toward national reconciliation. 
 At least two Republicans, Senators Gordon Smith of Oregon and Olympia Snowe of Maine, said they were not convinced.
 ''I expressed reservations,'' Ms. Snowe said. ''I said, 'Why should we expect any different result than previously,' that I didn't believe the Maliki government had demonstrated the political will or capacity or resoluteness for reconciliation, that the reason Americans are not supporting the war is because they see Iraqis fighting among themselves rather than for themselves, and I didn't see the surge addressing the root causes of the violence.''
 Mr. Smith, who delivered a speech on the Senate floor before Christmas saying he was at the end of his rope on Iraq, said: ''What this sets up is a classic war powers confrontation between the White House and the Congress. Clearly he has the powers to commit troops; the question is whether the Congress has the convictions to deny funding.''
 The senator said he, for one, does not have the appetite for that. ''It would be a dishonorable thing,'' he said, ''to budget away the bullets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TERRORISM (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ROBERT M GATES (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Robert M (Sec) Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007



199 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Narrating Life and Death In Mumbai's Underworld

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif., Jan. 9 

 BODY:
A sweet Arts and Crafts bungalow with potted pansies and a puppy in the window seems an unlikely place to encounter a celebrated Indian author who possesses an intimate knowledge of what happens when a Mumbai gangster's AK-47 meets up close and personal with an adversary's skull.
 The Dickensian sweep of Bombay, as Vikram Chandra prefers to call the city -- the cops on the take, the slums patrolled by mobsters, the whores turned Bollywood starlets, the headboards in million-dollar co-ops that slide away at the touch of a button to reveal hundreds of thousands in hidden rupees -- is itself a protagonist in ''Sacred Games,'' Mr. Chandra's long-awaited 900-page novel (excluding glossary) just published by HarperCollins. 
The latest in what one London critic calls the ''subcontinental doorstopper'' school of epic Indian fiction, ''Sacred Games'' combines the ambition of a 19th-century social novel with a cops-and-Bhais detective thriller. (Bhai is a Hindi and Gujarati term for wiseguy.) The book, Mr. Chandra's third, was the subject of an intense bidding war among New York publishers, one apparently presided over by Lakshmi, the Hindu goddess of prosperity, who bestowed upon this 45-year-old cherubic-faced author a seven-figure advance.
 As sprawling as the heat-drenched city it richly portrays, ''Sacred Games'' delves into many emotionally charged worlds of contemporary India, in particular the spidery links between organized crime, local politics and Indian espionage that lie below the shimmering surfaces of its economic renaissance. Money and corruption form the golden thread. In interweaving narratives and voices, ''Sacred Games'' takes on even larger themes, from the wrenching violence of the 1947 partition of India to the specter of nuclear terrorism.
 The central story revolves around Ganesh Gaitonde, an existentially confused Hindu don with an aptitude for erasing people, and Sartaj Singh, a divorced insomniac Sikh police inspector first introduced by the author in his acclaimed 1997 short-story collection, ''Love and Longing in Bombay.'' Like spices in an Indian auntie's grinder, the book mixes English with Hindi, Urdu, Marathi and mobster vernacular. (When a nervous gangster says, ''I felt my golis sweat,'' you know what he means.) It also revels in comic gruesomeness.
 For Mr. Chandra, who teaches at the University of California, Berkeley, ''Sacred Games'' is the culmination not only of seven years of writing -- he said he was surprised by the book's length -- but also months of Dashiell Hammett-style pavement pounding in the company of a crack crime reporter in Mumbai.
 Like the police inspector, Singh, the soft-spoken Mr. Chandra, who could pass for a graduate student, followed cellphone leads down squalid lanes and up narrow flights of stairs lined with video monitors to have tete-a-tetes with real-life hit men with names like Hussain the Razor.
 He met the Razor in his gangland den in south Mumbai. Though lacking formal education, the gangster spoke sophisticated Urdu and, Mr. Chandra observed at the time, wore very expensive European cologne. ''It was an extraordinary detail to note about a gangster,'' said Hussain Zaidi, the 38-year-old crime reporter to whom the book is dedicated.
 Shortly thereafter, the mobster was gunned down after rendezvousing with his lover alone, a foolhardy undertaking that the police, with whom the Razor was cozy, had discouraged. Desire had triumphed over fear of death.
 In Mumbai, where Mr. Chandra's family still lives, he communed with ''a yoga-practicing vegetarian hit man.'' Indeed, ''Sacred Games'' is rife with characters with topsy-turvy moral compasses. 
 ''They have the kind of power that can shut down a city, but they're living in constant fear,'' Mr. Chandra said. ''So they construct a comprehensible moral universe for themselves. I asked one of these guys, 'How can you justify murder?' And he said, 'Look, their death is already written,' pointing upwards. Murder in their view is part of the divine play of the Lord.''
 Thus ''Sacred Games.''
 The book's initial germ was a rackety shootout not far from Mr. Chandra's family's co-op. Like many of the city's elite, he had some firsthand experience with extortion.
 He comes from a creative, precocious family: his mother, Kamna Chandra, is a well-respected screenwriter best known for ''Prem Rog'' (''Virus of Love''), directed by the legendary Raj Kapoor, and ''1942: A Love Story,'' a film directed by Vidhu Vinod Chopra, Mr. Chandra's brother-in-law. Mr. Chopra is married to the author's youngest sister, Anapama, a well-known film critic. 
 His sister Tanuja Chandra's first English-language film, ''Hope and a Little Sugar,'' a Muslim-Sikh love story set in New York right before Sept. 11, recently won best feature film at the South Asian International Film Festival in Manhattan. 
 Over the years, Mr. Chandra said, friends and relatives have routinely received extortion calls, most notably Mr. Chopra. Around the time ''1942: A Love Story'' came out, bodyguards appeared at the house. ''Suddenly my little nieces and nephews were growing up with men with guns as part of the landscape,'' Mr. Chandra recalled. ''I felt freaked out the first week. But over time, it became ordinary. We chatted about cricket.''
 Mr. Chandra arrived in Mumbai as a 15-year-old after a peripatetic childhood that included boarding school in Rajasthan. (His father, Navin, is a retired chief executive of an international trading company.) He was, by his own account, ''a weird little kid'' with thick glasses and a literary bent, gravitating first to science fiction.
 ''I was a nerd, to put it bluntly,'' he said. ''I would walk around in circles bouncing a ball in a trance and making up stories in installments in my head.''
 Seeking a writing community, he persuaded his parents to send him to college in the United States, where he got his B.A. at Pomona College in California and then moved to New York to attend film school at Columbia. But in the university's Butler Library one day, he stumbled upon an original 1840 edition of the autobiography of Col. James Skinner, a 19th-century soldier and adventurer. 
 ''I saw it as a novel,'' he said, and it became the basis for his first novel, ''Red Earth and Pouring Rain.'' 
 That book was written when he was a graduate student and under the tutelage of two important mentors: John Barth at Johns Hopkins and Donald Barthelme at the University of Houston. To supplement his income as a teaching assistant, the nerd morphed into a geek, developing a side business as a software programmer and writer. (Technology remains an obsession.)
 Last year Mr. Chandra wed his longtime sweetheart, Melanie Abrams, a novelist and fellow faculty member, in a double ceremony: a Jewish one in Los Angeles, followed by a three-day extravaganza in Mumbai. He describes his long-distance courtship of Ms. Abrams, 34, whom he met at an Asian arts festival in California, as ''a Victorian e-mail relationship.''
 The couple spend about five months a year in India. Their home in Berkeley is an intriguing blend, with the requisite hot tub in the backyard and, in the front hall, a lotus-leaf menorah and a shrine to Ganesh, the elephant-headed divinity, ''the god of beginnings, the remover of obstacles,'' Mr. Chandra said.
 Early photos of the extended family hang on the walls. In many ways, he observed, the story of his own family is that of post-independence India: the movement from villages to cities, the rise of the middle class and an obsession with education that laid the groundwork for a generation of accomplished writers from the subcontinent, including Salman Rushdie, Arundhati Roy, Jhumpa Lahiri, Vikram Seth and Kiran Desai.
 With the notable exception of Ms. Roy, most are part of an intercontinental literary diaspora. The prizes and big advances snapped up by authors writing in English outside India has elicited public sniping among Indian intellectuals, prompting Mr. Chandra to take them on eloquently in a widely read essay in The Boston Review called ''The Cult of Authenticity.'' 
 William Dalrymple, the British historian who lives in New Delhi, said he believed that much of the criticism was unfair. Still, he said, the perception persists of ''a bunch of middle-class guys who got out of India at the first possible opportunity living it up in Manhattan while passing themselves off as third world real McCoys.''
 Though ''Sacred Games'' was released in India last summer, Mr. Chandra has yet to receive feedback from mobsters. But they welcomed their eggheaded Boswell -- once he assured them that he was writing fiction. 
 ''Even gangsters are aware of the value of spin,'' Mr. Chandra said before heading out to a local Indian restaurant. ''Invariably, their last line was, 'If you ever have a problem, come talk to me.' ''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Wednesday about the writer Vikram Chandra misidentified the site of his home. While he teaches at the University of California, Berkeley, he lives in Oakland, Calif., not Berkeley.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vikram Chandra, at his house in Berkeley, Calif., returned to his homeland, India, to research his new novel and mob saga, ''Sacred Games.'' (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); LITERATURE (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (77%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (74%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (65%); TERRORISM (62%); ESPIONAGE (50%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Patricia Leigh Brown; Vikram Chandra

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007



200 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: A Brighter Future For a Wine With a Past

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

 BODY:
AMERICANS these days drink wines from almost every state, continent and grape. Yet at one time they drank essentially only one: Madeira, a rich fortified wine from the Portuguese island in the Atlantic that gave it its name.
 In Colonial days, thanks to British blockades, other wines were all but impossible to obtain. But by the mid-19th century, long after the crisis had passed and fine wines could be imported from all over the world, Madeira was mostly forgotten in the wine trade.
 Mannie Berk would like to change that. A self-described Madeira fanatic, Mr. Berk, a 56-year-old Dallas native, is trying almost single-handedly to revive America's interest in what was once, perforce, its favorite wine. 
 ''From the early 1700s until the Civil War,'' Mr. Berk said, ''affluent Americans were as proud of their Madeira collections as they were of their art and real estate. Our love affair with Madeira stands as the earliest example of wine connoisseurship in America.'' 
 Mr. Berk is founder and president of the Rare Wine Company, with offices in Sonoma, Calif., and Guilford, Conn. The company offers an impressive range of great wines, but fine old Madeira is its reason for being. ''A friend got me onto Madeira back in the early 1980s,'' Mr. Berk said, ''and I was hooked.''
 In England in 1986, researching a book on old vintages, Mr. Berk heard that Hedges & Butler, a prominent London wine house, was disposing of stocks of aged Madeiras that had lain in its cellars for decades. ''With some financial help from a friend, I bought as much of them as I could,'' he said. ''And that was the beginning of the Rare Wine Company.''
 Mr. Berk landed some 400 cases of Madeira, mostly from the 19th century. Unavailable anywhere else, they probably would never have gone on the market again. But he had more ambitious plans than just selling these finds. ''I wanted to make Americans more aware of our Madeira heritage,'' he said. 
 Even so, he added: ''Young Madeiras coming into the States in recent years have been pretty mediocre. They don't give consumers a true sense of Madeira's possibilities.'' 
 Madeira is capable of achieving an astonishing old age. A vintage Madeira must age at least 20 years in cask before it can be sold. 
 So in 1998 Mr. Berk began working with Vinhos Barbeito, one of his suppliers, to produce blends with the rich flavors and subtle bouquet of older Madeira but at an affordable price. From this grew the company's ''Historic Series'': Madeiras named for American port cities with historical ties to the island and its wines. 
 The series has four wines so far. Three -- Boston Bual, New York Malmsey and Charleston Sercial -- have been released. A fourth, New Orleans Special Reserve, is to be released this month. 
 Bual, malmsey (Malvasia) and sercial are the principal grapes in the first three blends. About 25 percent of the New Orleans blend will be terrantez, an extremely rare grape almost but not quite wiped out by phylloxera in the 19th century. 
 ''It took a good four years to come up with our first blends,'' Mr. Berk said. ''The key was including about 15 percent of very old -- 50 to 60 years -- tinta negra mole with about 85 percent of the principal grapes.'' Tinta negra mole is not one of the noble grapes of the island, but it ages well, he said. 
 While rare vintage Madeira can sell for hundreds or even thousands of dollars a bottle, the Historic Series wines sell are priced at about $40 for the Boston, New York and Charleston wines, and will run about $60 for the New Orleans. Proceeds from the sale of the New Orleans wine will go to post-Katrina culinary and cultural activities in its namesake city.
 The first three varieties are dark in color, rich and nutty, with flavors of oranges and lemons, brown sugar and maple syrup supported by just the right amount of acid for perfect balance and harmony. The Charleston Sercial is the driest, lighter in color than the others, and the New York Malmsey is the sweetest. The Boston Bual splits the difference with a spectacular aroma of dark sugar and orange. 
 These wines develop slowly after the bottle is open, but soon the room is filled with the aromas of coffee, chocolate and dried fruit. One critic detected ''almost truffley flavors.'' Right on the mark.
 Madeira, like port, is a fortified wine created by adding brandy during fermentation. The brandy stops the conversion of the grape sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide. As a result the wine, like port, has about 18 percent sugar. 
 Unlike port, Madeira is heated by leaving it in casks for three years or more in the sweltering attics of the Madeira houses in Funchal, the island's subtropical capital. The best casks are set aside as vintage wines, some not to be sold until they are 60 or 70 years old. Lesser wines are blended for sale at 5, 10 or 15 years of age. 
 Merchants learned in the 18th century that when Madeira was shipped in sailing vessels, the heat of the tropics and the motion of the ships enhanced the wine's mellowness and richness. A 19th-century wine list from a New Orleans hotel offered a Madeira said to have made ''two voyages to the E. Indies,'' for five times the price of more ordinary Madeiras.
 The effects of Madeira's long decline are still evident. The island once had 60 producers, but has only 8 now. 
 Still, interest in good Madeira has been growing. Most restaurants serious about wine now offer it.
 Gramercy Tavern in New York offers five Madeiras by the glass, one of them a 1922 Boal Reserva from D'Oliveiras that sells for $75 a glass. New York restaurants featuring the Historic Series Madeiras include Gordon Ramsay at the London, Hearth, Del Posto, Telepan, Blue Hill and DB Bistro Moderne.
 Shops offering at least one or two of the Historic Series include, in the city, Astor, Crossroads, Harlem Vintage, Garnet, Crush, 67 and, in Westchester, Zachys. 
 While many wine shops offer Madeira blends starting at around $20, first-quality Madeira costs much more. At Sherry-Lehmann in New York a 1974 Sercial from Blandy's is $175, and a 1920 Bual is $795.
 Of course, the Rare Wine Company can top that. Mr. Berk has a 1720 vintage for $3,000. 
 That early American wine connoisseur Thomas Jefferson probably savored the 1720, but later in life. It was only 23 years old when he was born. 

A Humble Grape That's Had Its Day
 IF there is a villain in the story of Madeira's fall from grace, it is the tinta negra mole grape.
 An indifferent grape, quick-maturing and prolific, it was used, with American hybrids, to replace noble-grape vines ravaged by mildew and phylloxera in the late 19th century. 
 Madeira's regal heritage washed away in a sea of tinta negra mole wine shipped in bulk, mostly for cooking. 
 The hybrids were banned in 1990 by the Madeira Wine Institute, the official regulatory body, and since 1993 only hints of tinta negra mole have been used, for its sweetness and color.
 Newer plantings of the famous Madeira grapes used in Mannie Berk's Historic Series -- bual, malmsey and sercial -- and verdelho are making a comeback. 
 Tom Stevenson, a British wine expert, argues that Madeira needs innovation to survive. ''Viticulture on this precipitous island is so labor-intensive,'' he writes in the Sotheby's Wine Encyclopedia, ''that cheap wine makes no economic sense.'' FRANK J. PRIAL


GRAPHIC: Photos: AGE MATTERS -- Mannie Berk sells vintage Madeiras, including one from 1792, far right, but also his own line of younger wines. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); REAL ESTATE (74%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

ORGANIZATION: Rare Wine Company

PERSON: Frank J Prial; Mannie Berk

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PORTUGAL (92%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

 
