

401 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3001 words

HEADLINE: The Anti-Immigration Crusader

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Three decades ago, a middle-aged doctor sat outside his northern Michigan home and saw a patch of endangered paradise.
A beekeeper and amateur naturalist of prodigious energy, John Tanton had spent two decades planting trees, cleaning creeks and suing developers, but population growth put ever more pressure on the land. Though fertility rates had fallen, he saw a new threat emerging: soaring rates of immigration.
Time and again, Dr. Tanton urged liberal colleagues in groups like Planned Parenthood and the Sierra Club to seek immigration restraints, only to meet blank looks and awkward silences.
''I finally concluded that if anything was going to happen, I would have to do it myself,'' he said. 
Improbably, he did. From the resort town of Petoskey, Mich., Dr. Tanton helped start all three major national groups fighting to reduce immigration, legal and illegal, and molded one of the most powerful grass-roots forces in politics. The immigration-control movement surged to new influence in last fall's elections and now holds near veto power over efforts to legalize any of the 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States.
One group that Dr. Tanton nurtured, Numbers USA, doomed President George W. Bush's legalization plan four years ago by overwhelming Congress with protest calls. Another, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, helped draft the Arizona law last year to give the police new power to identify and detain illegal immigrants.
A third organization, the Center for Immigration Studies, joined the others in December in defeating the Dream Act, which sought to legalize some people brought to the United States illegally as children.
Rarely has one person done so much to structure a major cause, or done it so far from the public eye. Dr. Tanton has raised millions of dollars, groomed proteges and bequeathed institutions, all while running an ophthalmology practice nearly 800 miles from Capitol Hill.
''He is the most influential unknown man in America,'' said Linda Chavez, a former aide to President Ronald Reagan who once led a Tanton group that promoted English-only laws.
While Dr. Tanton's influence has been extraordinary, so has his evolution -- from apostle of centrist restraint to ally of angry populists and a man who increasingly saw immigration through a racial lens.
Mindful that the early-20th-century fight to reduce immigration had been marred by bigotry, Dr. Tanton initially emphasized FAIR's identity as a ''centrist group'' and made arguments aimed at liberals and minorities. He allowed few local FAIR chapters, warning that a stray demagogue might ''go off half-cocked and spoil the whole effort.''
When a member of FAIR wrote that Hispanic immigrants should be shot -- because they ''multiply like a bunch of rats'' -- a staff member offered to refund his dues. Early supporters included Senator Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota and Warren E. Buffett.
Now FAIR's signature event is an annual gathering of talk radio hosts, where earnest policy pitches share time with the kind of battle cries Dr. Tanton once feared. This year's event mixed discussion of job losses among minorities with calls to use Tomahawk missiles on Tijuana drug lords, while a doubter of President Obama's birth certificate referred to ''the undocumented worker'' in the White House. Leading allies include Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, whose sweeps of Latino neighborhoods around Phoenix have prompted a federal investigation.
While the whole movement grew more vehement as illegal immigration increased, Dr. Tanton seemed especially open to provocative allies and ideas. He set off a storm of protests two decades ago with a memorandum filled with dark warnings about the ''Latin onslaught.'' Word soon followed that FAIR was taking money from the Pioneer Fund, a foundation that promoted theories of the genetic superiority of whites.
Dr. Tanton, who remains on the FAIR board, denied charges of racial bias and donated his papers to the University of Michigan to show that he and colleagues ''are not the unsavory types sometimes alleged.'' They include hundreds of private letters, some outlining his interest in genetic differences between the races and concerns about the country's changing ethnic mix.
Reeling from their recent defeats, supporters of immigrant rights are mining those files as part of a fierce -- critics say unfair -- campaign to label him a racist and discredit his broader cause. Some have gone as far as calling FAIR a ''hate group.''
But accusations of bigotry could alienate moderates the immigrant rights groups need. Allies of Dr. Tanton say their accusers are discrediting themselves with a guilt-by-association campaign that twists his ideas and projects them onto groups where, they say, his influence long ago waned. Still, few of those allies are willing to defend all the views he expresses in his files.
Dr. Tanton, 77, declined interview requests, citing problems from Parkinson's disease. That leaves his files to speak for themselves. Is he an embodiment of his powerful movement or an embarrassment to it?
A Pledge of Centrism
Petoskey, population 6,000, hugs Lake Michigan in a forested area known for sailboats and summer homes. Dr. Tanton has spent most of his adult life there, chopping wood, keeping bees and growing kale. Even as late as 2000, the surrounding county was 94 percent white.
Regretting what he saw as the limits of his rural education, Dr. Tanton compensated with autodidactic zest. He started a Great Books Club, read up on macroeconomics and polished his foreign language skills by subscribing to a German newspaper. The results included a wide-ranging mind and at times a tone deafness. He is a former farm boy who calls colleagues ''chaps.''
Dr. Tanton founded local chapters of Planned Parenthood and the Sierra Club and became the national president of Zero Population Growth. Unable to interest colleagues in fighting immigration, he formed FAIR in 1979, pledging in his proposal to make it ''centrist/liberal in political orientation.'' The first director, Roger Conner, had made his mark as a liberal environmental advocate.
Otis L. Graham Jr., a founding board member, wrote, ''A leading concern for me is to bring into FAIR strong representation from people in groups of liberal, progressive disposition.''
Then, as today, there were serious liberal arguments for lower immigration. FAIR hoped to enlist unions concerned about wage erosion, environmentalists concerned about pollution and sprawl, and blacks concerned about competition for housing, jobs and schools.
A few prominent Democrats lent support, including Senator McCarthy. But most liberal groups saw immigrants, even illegal ones, as minorities to be protected, rather than economic rivals. Unions saw potential members; Democrats saw voters.
''We didn't convince anybody,'' Mr. Graham said in an interview.
Worried that it was losing the war of ideas, FAIR in 1985 spun off a free-standing research group, the Center for Immigration Studies, intended ''to make the restriction of immigration a legitimate position for thinking people,'' as Dr. Tanton put it.
The next year FAIR faced a defining fight over the first major immigration bill in more than 20 years. It created penalties for employers who hired illegal workers but legalized several million people already here. With FAIR sharply split, Dr. Tanton pushed it to support the compromise, but the penalties proved ineffective and the amnesty was marred by fraud.
No one at FAIR would think of compromising on legalization again.
Challenging Taboos
FAIR was founded on complaints about the immigrants' numbers, not their culture. But Dr. Tanton feared that they were failing to assimilate. He formed a new group, U.S. English, to oppose bilingual education and demand that government agencies use English alone. By 1988, Dr. Tanton had a high-profile director in Ms. Chavez and ballot measures pending in three states.
Then The Arizona Republic revealed the contents of a memorandum he had sent to friends before a brainstorming session. ''Will Latin-American migrants bring with them the tradition of the mordida (bribe)?'' he asked. ''As whites see their power and control over their lives declining, will they simply go quietly into the night? Or will there be an explosion?''
Latino fertility rates caused him special alarm: ''those with their pants up are going to get caught by those with their pants down!''
Soon followed the news that FAIR had received grants from the Pioneer Fund, whose most famous grantee was William B. Shockley, the Nobel-winning physicist who argued that for genetic reasons, blacks are intellectually inferior to whites.
Ms. Chavez resigned, Mr. Buffett stopped supporting FAIR, and any hope of significant liberal support vanished.
Some colleagues never forgave him.
''The fear was that one ugly person could tar the larger movement, and sadly, ironically, it turned out that person was John Tanton,'' said Patrick Burns, who was then FAIR's deputy director.
But if anything, Dr. Tanton grew more emboldened to challenge taboos. He increasingly made his case against immigration in racial terms.
''One of my prime concerns,'' he wrote to a large donor, ''is about the decline of folks who look like you and me.'' He warned a friend that ''for European-American society and culture to persist requires a European-American majority, and a clear one at that.''
Dr. Tanton acknowledged the shift from his earlier, colorblind arguments, but the ''uncomfortable truth,'' he wrote, was that those arguments had failed. With a million or more immigrants coming each year -- perhaps a third illegally -- he warned, ''The end may be nearer than we think.''
He corresponded with Sam G. Dickson, a Georgia lawyer for the Ku Klux Klan, who sits on the board of The Barnes Review, a magazine that, among other things, questions ''the so-called Holocaust.'' Dr. Tanton promoted the work of Jared Taylor, whose magazine, American Renaissance, warned: ''America is an increasingly dangerous and disagreeable place because of growing numbers of blacks and Hispanics.'' (To Mr. Taylor, Dr. Tanton wrote, ''You are saying a lot of things that need to be said.'')
Beyond immigration, he revived an old interest in eugenics, another field trailed by a history of racial and class prejudice.
''Do we leave it to individuals to decide that they are the intelligent ones who should have more kids?'' he wrote. ''And more troublesome, what about the less intelligent, who logically should have less. Who is going to break the bad news to them?''
Still, few friends confronted him.
''My biggest regret is I looked at what he was doing, rolled my eyes and said, 'That's John,' '' said Mr. Conner, the first FAIR director, who praised Dr. Tanton's great ''decency and his generosity on a personal level'' and his selfless devotion to his cause. Those qualities are ''so profound that the people around him disregarded things that we should have called him on,'' he added.
Power in the Ballot
Dr. Tanton argued that the public was incensed by illegal immigration, but that elites ignored ''hoi polloi,'' who bore such costs as rising crime and overcrowded schools.
FAIR first glimpsed the power of populist action with the passage of Proposition 187, the 1994 ballot initiative in California barring illegal residents from virtually all social services. But victories came slower on Capitol Hill, where immigrant groups stood with business lobbies eager for foreign labor. The anger that shook California was slow to make the Capitol switchboard buzz.
The man who most changed that was Roy Beck, who spent several years as Washington editor of The Social Contract, Dr. Tanton's journal. Mr. Beck formed Numbers USA in 1997 to help pipe the growing populist anger into Congressional offices. Dr. Tanton helped him raise money and housed the group for four years under his umbrella organization, U.S. Inc.
Mr. Beck mobilized a database of supporters with what was then a novel technology, the Internet fax. Prompted by a well-timed alert, his followers could register outrage with a few mouse clicks -- or call. They did, in attention-grabbing numbers.
A folksy entrant to a fiery debate, Mr. Beck appeared to share little with the white nationalist element in Dr. Tanton's broad circle. He calls himself a racial liberal and argues that lower immigration would raise the wages of native-born blacks. He put a picture of Barbara Jordan, a black civil rights leader and politician he considered an ally, on the Numbers USA Web site.
Yet at The Social Contract, he was part of a journal that often criticized immigration on racial grounds, and Dr. Tanton once dubbed Mr. Beck his ''heir apparent.''
''He's just like any friend -- there are lots of issues I don't agree with him on,'' Mr. Beck said.
Numbers USA showed its force in 2002 when Republican leaders of the House backed a bill that would have allowed some illegal immigrants to remain in the United States while seeking legal status. Numbers USA set the phones on fire, and a majority of Republicans opposed it.
''I had people come up to me on the floor of the House saying, 'O.K., O.K., call off the dogs' -- meaning Numbers USA,'' said former Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who fought the bill.
The big war broke out in 2007, after Mr. Bush proposed a systemic overhaul including a path to citizenship for most illegal immigrants. Supporters said it would free millions of people from fear and exploitation; opponents argued that it would reward lawbreakers and encourage more illegal immigration.
FAIR rallied talk show hosts. The Center for Immigration Studies churned out studies of the bill's perceived flaws. Numbers USA jammed the Capitol's phones.
Their success became the stuff of lore. They ''lit up the switchboard for weeks,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, explaining his decision to oppose the bill. ''And to every one of them, I say today: 'Your voice was heard.' ''
Becoming a Target
For supporters of granting legal status, the vote was a total rout. ''Let's face it, they kicked our butt,'' said Frank Sharry, who led a business-immigrant group for the bill. A new network formed of loosely affiliated liberal groups with a more confrontational bent. It seized on two words: John Tanton.
In December 2007, the Southern Poverty Law Center dubbed FAIR a ''hate group.'' In Chicago, the Center for New Community tracked ''Tanton's empire of fear and prejudice.''
Mr. Sharry's new group, America's Voice, placed newspaper advertisements warning Congress not to meet ''with extremist groups like FAIR.'' Its online video combines pictures of Dr. Tanton and Mr. Beck with images of Klan members and Nazis.
Mr. Sharry acknowledges that he used to warn colleagues that charges of racism would backfire. But he said the 2007 debate convinced him of his opponents' ill will. ''I've gone from saying they're part of the process to seeing them as extremists who want to expel millions of people,'' he said. While they started with a liberal gloss, ''their juice became culturally conservative Republicans who don't like brown people.''
Despite such attacks, the groups remain influential. Georgia legislators passed a bill last week much like the Arizona measure that FAIR helped draft. Its main sponsor, State Representative Matt Ramsey, a Republican, asked FAIR to review an early draft and credited Numbers USA with helping to mobilize local supporters.
''That grass-roots program they have is incredibly effective,'' he said.
Dan Stein, the president of FAIR, said opponents were suddenly focusing on Dr. Tanton -- now in his 32nd year on the board -- to silence a policy debate they had lost.
''Is FAIR responsible for everything he said in his private correspondence? No,'' he said. ''I love John, but he's had no significant control over FAIR for years.'' Citing antidiscrimination language on FAIR's Web site, he added, ''We've always said you should not discriminate on the basis of race.''
Mr. Beck said the charges of bigotry were especially unfair and let a reporter hear a tape of his 1970 wedding ceremony, which included a song he wrote pledging to fight ''race hate.'' He deliberately lives in integrated neighborhoods, he said, and sent his children to integrated schools, including one in a mostly black housing project.
''What kind of racist does that?'' he said. ''They've never accused us of doing anything that's racist or white nationalist. It's only that Numbers U.S.A. 'has ties' '' to Dr. Tanton.
He added: ''Even if there were some mild strain of white nationalism in John, the fact is that the results of everything he is pushing in immigration policy would disproportionately help black and Hispanic Americans.''
The Center for Immigration Studies, where Dr. Tanton played a lesser role, has come closest to criticizing him, writing last year that he had a ''tin ear for the sensitivities of immigration.'' (A blogger then attacked the center as undermining ''the patriotic struggle.'')
Mr. Sharry said the groups' reluctance to criticize Dr. Tanton showed tacit agreement. But Mr. Conner, the former FAIR director, called it politeness toward a beleaguered friend. ''It's been perfectly clear that people have not been willing to defend John,'' he said.
Mr. Burns, his former FAIR colleague, said the groups' silence was harming an honorable cause. ''The immigration reform movement has to say what it is and what it's not, and it has to say it's not John Tanton,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on April 17 with the continuation of an article about John Tanton, who helped start all three major national groups that are fighting to reduce immigration to the United States, misstated the mission of Numbers USA, a group founded by Roy Beck. It seeks to reduce legal and illegal immigration alike, not ''to give voice to anger about illegal immigration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A demonstration this month in Atlanta against legislation favored by groups opposed to illegal immigration. The bill passed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
John Tanton (A1)
Immigrants at the Maricopa County Jail in Phoenix, where Sheriff Joe Arpaio's neighborhood sweeps have led to a federal investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES)
The signature event of the Federation for American Immigration Reform is an annual gathering of like-minded talk radio hosts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Roy Beck founded a group to give voice to anger about illegal immigration, but says the movement is not based on racism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Frank Sharry, who supports immigrant rights, calls some opponents ''culturally conservative Republicans who don't like brown people.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LIBERALISM (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); VETO (76%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (73%); FERTILITY RATES (72%); POLITICS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION FOR AMERICAN IMMIGRATION REFORM (82%); SIERRA CLUB (57%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



402 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: A Shot at a Sane Budget

BYLINE: By ALAN B. KRUEGER. 
Alan B. Krueger, a professor of economics at Princeton, was the assistant secretary of the Treasury for economic policy from 2009 to 2010.

 BODY:
Princeton, N.J.
PRESIDENT OBAMA has been criticized as too slow to engage in major debates and too timid to make difficult decisions.
Some have argued that his budget speech last week fit that narrative. He waited to deliver his speech until five months after his own fiscal commission proposed steep cuts to spending and tax deductions to bring the deficit under control, and a week after Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who leads the House Budget Committee, proposed to replace Medicare with a voucher-like program for those now under age 55.
In one important respect, however, Mr. Obama's deficit speech disproves the caricature, and contains a bold, serious and timely proposal. 
I'm not talking about the president's plan to curb the growth rate of Medicare expenditures beyond what is already included in health care reform, or his renewed pledge to allow the Bush tax cuts on top income earners to expire -- both of which will be difficult to achieve. (An earlier version of the Medicare proposal was projected by the Congressional Budget Office to produce only modest savings, and we all know what happened the last time the top tax rates were held hostage to middle-class tax cuts.)
What I have in mind is his endorsement of a trigger that would automatically kick in to reduce spending and tax expenditures if Congress and the administration fail to bring the debt under control.
Mr. Obama described what he called a ''debt fail-safe'': ''If, by 2014, our debt is not projected to fall as a share of the economy -- if we haven't hit our targets, if Congress has failed to act -- then my plan will require us to come together and make up the additional savings with more spending cuts and more spending reductions in the tax code.''
In essence, Mr. Obama proposed a rule that will enable us to get ahead of the long-run budget problem, and provide predictability and certainty to the federal budget.
Economists prefer rules over discretion when parties can choose to reverse themselves as tough decisions arise. Think of an overweight person intending to lose weight. He could use his judgment every time he is confronted with dessert. But that one extra slice of cake would not really matter much, so there is a tendency to indulge today and push restraint off until later. If, however, he buys all his meals in advance and commits to eat only those meals, he builds restraint into his diet. Rules can commit individuals or groups to a predetermined path.
If the political process always led to time-consistent, optimal decisions, rules would not be necessary. But that is not the world we inhabit.
Although rules are often flouted, they have helped trim budgets in the past.
The so-called pay-go rule in the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 -- which required increases in spending or decreases in revenue to be offset by other spending cuts or revenue increases -- helped lead to the surpluses that arose in the late 1990s. We've also run the experiment in reverse: After the pay-go rules expired in 2002, increased spending on programs like Medicare prescription drugs and two rounds of tax cuts caused the deficit to soar.
While pay-go rules are helpful in the current environment, they are not sufficient given the burden the approaching retirement of the baby boom generation and rising health care costs will place on the debt. We need a supercharged pay-go rule, and that is what the president proposed. Because politicians prefer discretion, it took courage to propose an automatic trigger.
The proposal goes beyond the trigger proposed in December by Mr. Obama's fiscal commission, which affected only tax revenue and kicked in only if tax reform was not enacted. Mr. Obama's plan would automatically reduce direct spending and spending through the tax code.
Of course, the devil in any trigger is in the details. A key issue involves exceptions: What categories of spending or taxing would be exempted from the trigger, and how large a majority would be required to override the trigger?
Another important issue concerns the ratio of spending cuts to tax revenue. The president proposed a ratio of $2 of direct spending cuts (excluding interest on the debt) to every additional dollar of tax revenue in his speech. The House speaker, John A. Boehner, and many other Republicans have objected to raising additional tax revenue. But the two sides may be closer to some type of agreement than is commonly believed; they seem to agree that around $4 trillion needs to be trimmed from the budget over the next 10 to 12 years, but not on how to do it.
Discretion is hard for politicians to give up -- and briefly satisfying, as dieters know when they dig out those hidden chocolate bars. What will help over time to lessen our appetite for more debt is to remove the temptation, and expectation, that when it comes to the budget we can always spend more than we have.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); POLITICS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



403 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1990 words

HEADLINE: The Raider In Winter

BYLINE: By JANET MORRISSEY

 BODY:
CARL C. ICAHN chases deals the way a dog chases cars. The guy just won't quit. Talk to him for three minutes, and you get the feeling he couldn't quit if he wanted to.
''What else would I do? Play shuffleboard somewhere?'' Mr. Icahn grumbles into the phone from his vacation home in Indian Creek, Fla., the rarefied enclave near Miami.
It's an old line, the one Mr. Icahn huffs, with over-my-dead-body pique, just about every time the subject of retirement comes up. No, at age 75 and a billionaire several times over, Carl Icahn will not go quietly.
Mr. Icahn has spent four decades making trouble for corporate America -- and making a lot of money for himself and his investors. But now, midway through his eighth decade, he has begun to contemplate his legacy, and the future of the Icahn empire hangs in the balance. What will they say about him? He bristles at being called a corporate raider, though if you Google the phrase you'll soon find his name. He prefers something friendlier: activist investor. 
So behold the raider -- or the activist, take your pick -- in winter: rich, yes, but so entranced by the game that he can't quite let go. One of his chief lieutenants, an up-and-comer, recently abandoned him: Keith A. Meister, widely considered his right-hand man, left the fold late last year. Mr. Meister was a pivotal player at Mr. Icahn's multibillion-dollar hedge fund, as well as at his flagship Icahn Enterprises, his investment holding company. But with $250 million from George Soros, Mr. Meister opened a hedge fund of his own. He was joined in January by Rupal Doshi, formerly chief operating officer of the Icahn Group. (Both declined to comment for this article.)
Shortly afterward, Mr. Icahn abruptly announced he would close his own hedge fund. He had opened the fund, to much fanfare, in 2004. But Mr. Icahn lost so much money during the financial crisis that he is still a bit shaken by the experience. He is returning all outside investors' money. Henceforth, Carl Icahn will manage money only for Carl Icahn.
In a March 8 letter to his fund's investors, Mr. Icahn said he was still unsettled by the events of 2008, when his fund plummeted 35 percent.
''Given the rapid market run-up over the past two years and our ongoing concerns about the economic outlook, and recent political tensions in the Middle East, I do not wish to be responsible to limited partners through another possible market crisis,'' Mr. Icahn wrote in his letter.
Managing other people's money was a headache, Mr. Icahn says. Besides, he thinks the markets are headed for a fall. ''You've got to be a fool if you don't think there will be a correction,'' he says.
And so, with Mr. Meister gone, Mr. Icahn's son, Brett C. Icahn, waits in the wings. The younger Icahn, 31, entered the family business after graduating from Princeton and spending a few relatively fruitless years directing movies.
Carl Icahn says his son is ready for more. But he denies he has anointed him as his successor, as many outsiders suspect. ''I give him more and more responsibility because he's earned it, but it's not nepotism,'' Carl Icahn says of his son. ''He's got good instincts.''
Brett Icahn -- or whoever succeeds his father, if anyone really can -- has some big shoes to fill.
''When it's a company that's so identified with the style, personality and skills of a single owner, you really don't know how it will evolve,'' says Stephen M. Davis, executive director of the Millstein Center for Corporate Governance and Performance at the Yale School of Management. ''Carl Icahn has a skilled team -- there's no doubt about that -- but it really does rest upon his leadership.''
CARL ICAHN runs his investment business from elegant offices 47 floors above Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan. He declined to be interviewed in person for this story.
Instead, he spoke by phone, from his offices in New York and his home in Florida, over the course of several weeks, a dozen or so conversations in all. He orchestrated the interviews as if he were cutting a deal, which, in some ways, he was: he spoke on the condition that he could vet every quotation.
What, really, is left to say about Carl Celian Icahn? Even those who are too young to remember his exploits in the 1980s know the stories. Born and raised in Queens to parents of relatively modest means, Carl helped pay his way through Princeton with winnings from poker. His parents wanted him to become a doctor, so the obedient son went to medical school. Then a patient with tuberculosis coughed on him.
''I said,'' he recalled, ''I'm done -- I quit.''
A wealthy uncle, Elliot Schnall, encouraged him to head to Wall Street in 1960, against the wishes of his parents. His mother was distraught. ''She said Wall Street was for gamblers,'' Mr. Schnall recalls. Mr. Icahn's father, a cantor, offered to help his son open a grocery store instead.
But by 1968, Mr. Icahn had started Icahn & Company and, with a loan from his uncle, bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange. At long last, his success won him his father's approval.
The rest is history. RJR Nabisco, the disaster that was TWA, Phillips Petroleum, Viacom, Uniroyal, Marshall Field, American Can, USX, Marvel Comics, Time Warner, Yahoo, Motorola, Lions Gate Entertainment -- the list of hits, and misses, runs on.
Mr. Icahn has been particularly active in recent years. Since 2004, he has begun 91 activist campaigns involving 79 American companies, according to FactSet SharkRepellent, a firm that tracks corporate takeover defenses and investor activism.
One of his biggest wins was ImClone Systems, the drug maker at the center of the Martha Stewart stock-trading scandal. Mr. Icahn jumped into the stock in 2006, initiated a proxy fight, arm-twisted the board into rejecting a $36-a-share takeover offer and assumed the position of chairman. Two years later, ImClone accepted a $70-a-share bid from the Eli Lilly & Company. Mr. Icahn pocketed $418 million on his $196 million investment.
Then there was the National Energy Group, which included the TransTexas Gas Corporation and Panaco, which he purchased out of bankruptcy from 2000 to 2005. He turned that $300 million investment into $1.5 billion when it was sold to SandRidge Energy in 2006.
He also scored big in the casino business. From 2000 to 2006, he bought four casinos, including the Stratosphere in Las Vegas, for $300 million. He sold them for $1.2 billion in February 2008, just before the bottom fell out of the economy.
''MR. ICAHN is on the line.''
That is a phrase to send chills through almost any chief executive. Last December, such a call came through at the Chesapeake Energy Corporation in Oklahoma City. That month Mr. Icahn announced that he had accumulated a 5.8 percent stake in the company.
Chesapeake's chief executive, Aubrey K. McClendon, met with Mr. Icahn to discuss his concerns over how much the company was spending and its valuation. Two months later, Mr. McClendon disclosed plans to sell $5 billion in assets and other changes to increase the company's value. Mr. Icahn bought in at $21. Chesapeake's stock price closed at $32.73 on Friday.
Mr. McClendon declined to say whether Mr. Icahn had shaped his thinking.
''We have appreciated his interest in Chesapeake, are happy he is up almost 50 percent on his investment, and have nothing but the utmost respect for him,'' Mr. McClendon says.
Mark Hanson, an analyst at Morningstar, says there's little doubt Mr. Icahn influenced Chesapeake. The plan the company presented in February was drastically different from the one it had in December, before Mr. Icahn arrived on the scene, he said.
Often, all Mr. Icahn has to do is make his interest known to send a stock price rising. Last November, for instance, regulatory filings showed that he had taken stakes in the toy maker Mattel and the building products company Masco. Mattel's shares jumped to a 52-week high. Masco's are up about 17 percent since he bought the stake.
Failures have accompanied these victories, however. Mr. Icahn lost $185 million on Blockbuster, which sank into bankruptcy a few years after he bought in. He also got his clocks cleaned on WCI Communities, a Florida condominium company that went broke.
Brett Icahn today sits on the boards of several companies in which his father has invested, including the video game maker Take-Two Interactive, American Railcar Industries and the food company Hain Celestial Group. He also runs a hedge fund that returned 50 percent last year.
When you're Carl Icahn's son, you get exposed to all things Icahn early on. As a child, Brett Icahn tagged along when his father scouted for real estate in Westchester County, N.Y. He later saw his father conduct corporate raids.
The two often play chess, wagering thousands of dollars a game. Brett plays better. ''I can't figure out how he does it,'' his father says, adding that a chess pro was coming over to coach him later that day. ''Don't tell Brett. I don't want him to know.''
Like his father, Brett Icahn went to Princeton. He interned at Goldman Sachs but then pursued a career in movie directing, making a couple of small art films. He joined his father's company in 2002.
''I always knew I'd end up in finance,'' Brett Icahn says. Like his father, he spoke only by phone.
And he has his father's line down: ''Corporate democracy is a myth, and cronyism on boards is rampant,'' Brett Icahn says. ''That's why there's a lot of opportunity as an activist.''
He says there are no plans for him to succeed his father, but he wants the Icahn legacy to endure. ''It's my name, too,'' he says.
OLIVER STONE went to see Carl Icahn when the director was working on his 1987 film ''Wall Street.'' Gordon Gekko's advice -- ''If you want a friend, get a dog'' -- was actually Carl Icahn's line.
Mr. Icahn has made more than a few enemies and frenemies in his time. He tangled with Donald Trump last year over three casinos in Atlantic City, a battle of big money and bigger egos. Mr. Icahn eventually lost in court.
Mr. Trump says he was surprised by the fight because he and Mr. Icahn had been friends. Over the years he had offered Mr. Icahn box seats at the U.S. Open tennis tournament and counseled him on his divorce in the 1990s.
''Carl is someone that, unfortunately, will always put the deal ahead of the relationships,'' Mr. Trump says. ''I am a loyalist, so I don't see friends fighting friends. But with Carl, the friendship stops where the deal begins.''
Mr. Icahn says he likes Mr. Trump -- no hard feelings. Then he adds, ''I don't even think he invited me to his daughter's wedding -- so how close can we be?''
William A. Ackman, who runs the New York hedge fund company Pershing Square Capital Management, is in some ways one of Mr. Icahn's figurative heirs in activist investing. But he, too, has crossed swords with Mr. Icahn. For the last seven years, Mr. Ackman has contended that Mr. Icahn owes him more than $8 million stemming from an investment in a Dallas real estate company, Hallwood Realty.
The New York Supreme Court ruled in favor of Mr. Ackman in August 2005, as did an appellate court in October 2006. A final appeal is pending.
But Mr. Icahn vows he will go all the way to the United States Supreme Court. ''How many times have judges been wrong? How many people have gone to the death chamber because they're wrong?'' he asked. ''Ackman is dead wrong.''
Mr. Ackman says he is confident he will prevail. In the meantime, Mr. Icahn must pay him hefty interest while the payment is delayed. ''It grows at about 9 percent a year,'' Mr. Ackman said.
After so many years and so many battles, you might think Carl Icahn would hang up his guns. You would be wrong. Consider Alexander the Great, Mr. Icahn says. Alexander the Great didn't stop.
''You conquer the countries, you put people in, and then you go on,'' Mr. Icahn says.
Alexander, of course, peaked early and died at the age of 32. Carl Icahn, at 75, keeps going and going, looking for one more Gaugamela.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carl Icahn says he won't retire soon, but he is scaling back. After closing his hedge fund, he says he'd rather not gamble with other people's money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
Carl Icahn, far left, has made a few enemies in his career as an activist investor, including the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman, left. Mr. Icahn's son, Brett, above, has risen at his father's company, but it is unclear whether he will take over. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK MAIMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); HEDGE FUNDS (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (68%); US DOLLAR (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: ICAHN ENTERPRISES LP (90%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: IEP (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: KEITH A MEISTER (79%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



404 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: The Budget Debate, Revealed

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The air in the capital these days is thick with references to trillion-dollar deficits, debt-to-G.D.P. ratios and mandatory spending. But the budget debate that became fully engaged last week is about far more than accounting and arcane policy disputes. What is under way now is the most fundamental reassessment of the size and role of government -- of the balance between personal responsibility and private markets on the one hand and public responsibility and social welfare on the other -- at least since Ronald Reagan and perhaps since F.D.R.
The battle ahead ''is the big one, and goes to the very major questions about the role of government,'' said G. William Hoagland, a former Republican staff director of the Senate Budget Committee. ''This is going to be a very fundamental clash of ideologies.''
The Democratic and Republican Parties have their own internal tensions to address as the debate goes forward in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail. But in its early stages at least, it is liberals who are on the defensive. 
The aging of the baby boom generation and the costs of maintaining Medicare and Social Security have put the two pillars of the social welfare system on the table for re-examination. The growing weight of the national debt has given urgency to the question of whether the government has become too big and expensive.
The tepid nature of the current economic recovery, following big stimulus packages, has provided an opening to challenge the effectiveness of Keynesianism as the default policy option for government. And the revived energy of grass-roots conservatives has given electoral clout to the movement's intellectual and constitutional arguments.
Arthur Brooks, president of the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative research organization, said, ''The optimistic view is that we have a confluence of the business cycle, of the demography and of the politics that makes it not just possible to achieve real change, but impossible that we not deal with these things if we want this country to continue on the path envisioned by the founders.'' So just two and a half years after a presidential election that was in part a repudiation of conservative governance, and with the nation still smarting from the aftereffects of a financial crisis that grew out of failures of markets and regulation, President Obama finds himself in a somewhat surprising position: forced to articulate and sell a vision of how liberalism and the institutions it built in the 20th century can be updated for the constraints of the 21st.
The speech he delivered Wednesday at George Washington University in Washington was his most ambitious effort so far to do so. In it, he harnessed the language of both left and right to argue against the extremes on both sides while suggesting that many of their core principles were not mutually exclusive -- in other words, that Great Society values can endure in a Tea Party moment.
He defined ''patriotism'' as a shared sense of responsibility for the vulnerable and less fortunate. Basic standards of security for the elderly and poor and government investment in a more prosperous future, he said, can not only coexist with a tradition of ''rugged individualists with a healthy skepticism of too much government,'' but are also a vital part of what makes America exceptional.
''We are a better country because of these commitments,'' he said. ''I'll go further -- we would not be a great country without those commitments.''
Republicans in Congress, he suggested, would shred that tradition under cover of a debate that is only nominally about the budget. ''The fact is,'' he said, ''their vision is less about reducing the deficit than it is about changing the basic social compact in America.''
Conservatives would and did object to his implication of heartlessness, but not necessarily to his assessment of their ambition.
The Republican plan put forward by Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the Budget Committee, and adopted by the House on Friday as its policy blueprint for the next decade contains a substantial dose of deficit reduction but is really a manifesto for limited government.
It would take big steps toward privatizing Medicare, slash upper-income tax rates, repeal last year's health care law, bite deeply into nearly all federal programs and try to cap the size of government relative to the economy. But it also imposes a self-consciously moral judgment on the government's role, suggesting that the same kind of demand for added personal responsibility that was embedded in the 1996 overhaul of welfare should now be applied more broadly, to food stamps, housing aid and health care for the elderly and the poor.
''The safety net should never become a hammock, lulling able-bodied citizens into lives of complacency and dependency,'' Mr. Ryan's budget proposal says.
William A. Galston, who was a domestic policy aide to President Bill Clinton and is now a scholar at the Brookings Institution, said Mr. Ryan deserved credit of a sort for addressing head-on the implications of the Republican Party's increasingly rigid antitax posture, which since it took root in the late 1970s has put greater and greater pressure on budgets and the social programs they support.
''It represents the first serious effort to begin to bring Republican social policy commitments in line with their fiscal and tax commitments,'' Mr. Galston said.
But he said Democrats, too, faced a credibility test. ''They have held fast to the security programs in place since the 1930s, but without being able to successfully challenge the antitax orthodoxy,'' he said. ''The problem the Democrats have is that they can no longer say with a straight face that raising taxes on the wealthy is going to enable them to pay over the next generation for the programs they cherish. So what do you do?''
That question is being asked quietly within both parties, each of which faces its own internal tensions about how to proceed.
There are Republicans who fear that voting for the Ryan plan will put them out of step with their constituents. There are Democrats who think the tax-and-spend label is all too accurate. There are Republicans who might countenance voting for tax increases, and there are Democrats who are willing to meaningfully scale back the benefits promised by Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
In the Senate, a group of Democrats and Republicans operating independently of party leaders is trying to come up with a plan that neither party would like but both would accept as necessary. But they are debating basic values; it would no doubt be much easier if the argument was just about numbers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DEFEND: The president making his case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MEDICARE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); POLITICS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



405 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Team America

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER. 
Bill Keller is the executive editor of The Times.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Bill Gates, Sarah Palin and Warren Buffett (now there's an opening in search of a punch line) each passed through here recently, instructing the Indians on how to be better Indians.
Palin came to preach the evils of bureaucracy, the soulfulness of rural life and the iniquity of mainstream media. Because her audience was thick with high-ranking bureaucrats, prosperous urbanites and media elite, and because her speaking fee was paid by an Indian media conglomerate, the reception in the hall was lukewarm.
Gates and Buffett came to export their gospel of private philanthropy, urging a closed-door gathering of India's richest to share more of their wealth. The two American moguls are worshiped in India for their business acumen, but in a country where the word ''mogul'' has an echo of imperial conquest, there was more than a trace of defensiveness in the coverage of their appeal. ''Did India Inc. Thumb Its Nose at Gates and Buffett?'' asked the long-winded headline in The Economic Times. ''Yes. India gives in its own way and can't write fat checks, as it's still an emerging economy.'' 
Unlike The Economic Times, I hold no brief against these ambassadors of betterment. Gates and Buffett are preaching what they practice, and beyond Palin's Delhi lecture, I'm sure her burden-of-government message resonated powerfully in an India whose suffocating bureaucracy makes America seem like a libertarian paradise.
But their coincidental visits reminded me that our American urge to fix the world is not always as welcome as we want it to be.
We seem to be in one of those periodic revivals of the American missionary spirit, which manifests itself in everything from quiet kindness to patronizing advice to armored divisions. These days the spirit is most evident, of course, in our yearning to embrace the aspiring democrats across North Africa and the Middle East.
The urge to intervene is not uniquely American, but it is one strong fiber in our national character, woven of optimism, generosity and chutzpah. The idea of saving souls was embedded in the Charter of Massachusetts Bay, putting a gloss of missionary purpose on the original Colonial project.
The impulse both does us proud and gets us into trouble. Sometimes the result is commendable (the Marshall Plan, the Dayton accords) and sometimes not so much (our arming of the anti-Soviet mujahedeen in Afghanistan). We have big hearts but short attention spans.
In foreign-policy journals, students of America's role have long argued about which deserves priority: our ideals or our interests -- the desire to share the freedoms we have or the obligation to protect our security and husband our resources. In practice, that's often a false choice; the imperatives overlap. One reason we proselytize for democracy and human rights is that we believe a world that's more like ours is less threatening. The war in Iraq had multiple pretexts, both idealistic and pragmatic: containing an ostensible threat, rescuing Iraqis from a monster, sowing seeds of freedom in an oppressed region.
The American missionary impulse crosses boundaries of party and ideology. Paul Wolfowitz, the Bush defense deputy who argued that invading Iraq would catalyze new freedom across the region, and Samantha Power, the Obama adviser whose passion for humanitarian intervention has helped drive our involvement in Libya, are more alike than either would probably admit. Although Power opposed the invasion of Iraq in 2003, she would have used force in 1988 to stop Saddam Hussein from gassing the Kurds. And on stopping the bloodletting in Libya, Wolfowitz and Power are singing from the same hymnal.
Eight years ago, when I was an Op-Ed columnist for this paper, I aligned myself with something I called the I-Can't-Believe-I'm-a-Hawk Club -- baby boomers whose distrust of foreign intervention, forged during the bloody mess of Vietnam, was tempered by the noble rescue of Bosnia and Kosovo, leading to a grudging sympathy for the invasion of Iraq. I'm sure the Bush administration did not need permission from the East Coast pundit chorus to go to war, but it was a high-water mark of the missionary impulse.
Some members of that club have since repudiated their support for the Iraq invasion. Others have not. It's intriguing to watch them variously extrapolating from Baghdad to Benghazi.
Joe Klein of Time, who spoke hawkishly on television before the Iraq invasion and became increasingly critical of the enterprise, is now a Libya skeptic: ''If there's one thing that we've learned in the last decade about invading Islamic countries,'' it ''is that there are always vast unintended consequences.''
The fearless Christopher Hitchens, who has not wavered in his support for the Iraq war, argued on Slate that the uprising in Libya vindicates the overthrow of Saddam Hussein. ''Can anyone imagine how the Arab spring would have played out if a keystone Arab state, oil-rich and heavily armed with a track record of intervention in its neighbors' affairs and a history of all-out mass-repression against its own civilians, were still the private property of a sadistic crime family?'' Hitchens wrote.
George Packer, who eloquently agonized over his early support for the Iraq war in ''The Assassins' Gate,'' has somewhat reluctantly saddled up again for Libya, although he has little faith in the motley rebel alliance. He argues that the strategic stakes are high and the threat of massacre was imminent, but you can almost hear him sighing in resignation: ''Any fixed abstract guidelines will perish against the reality of new circumstances,'' he wrote on The New Yorker's Web site.
As editor of The Times, I don't take stands for or against wars, old ones in Iraq or new ones in Libya, lest my opinions be mistaken for the guiding doctrine of our news coverage. But it's fair to say the experience of Iraq and Afghanistan underscores the value of a certain humility about our ability to shape history.
President Obama's first major venture into the Middle East, his remarkable June 2009 speech at Cairo University, had a robust missionary flavor, promoting reconciliation, tolerance, human rights and freedom long before anyone seriously imagined an Arab spring.
But it's understandable that throughout these recent months, torn between clamorous certainties -- the cheerleaders for intervention and the alarmists about the threat of turmoil in the Arab world -- the president has projected a wary ambivalence. He has tossed aside allied autocrats in Egypt and Yemen, urged reform and restraint on others and backed an armed intervention in Libya that seems to be creeping inexorably from atrocity prevention to regime change. Yet he has moved more slowly and sounded more equivocal than democracy hawks would like. His March speech on Libya, describing it as a limited, one-of-a-kind intervention, seemed to elevate the absence of doctrine to a doctrine.
For taking the long view, India is not a bad vantage point from which to watch the serial eruptions in the Arab world. India is 64 years into its own democratic experiment, which began with the partition of this former imperial colony into India and Pakistan. Liberation begat a bloody breakdown of law and order, followed by -- in addition to economic growth and pockets of immense wealth -- wars, sectarian atrocities and nuclear saber-rattling, grand and petty corruption, enduring poverty and disillusionment.
India is a caution that, from the on-ramp, it's hard to see your destination.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARVIN ORELLANA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (90%); SARAH PALIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (89%); DELHI, INDIA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



406 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: You Say Bay of Pigs, I Say ...

BYLINE: By LIZABEL MONICA. 
Lizabel Monica runs the online magazine Desliz. This essay was translated by Kristina Cordero from the Spanish.

 BODY:
Havana
FOR weeks, Cuba has been preparing for this weekend's huge military parade, the first of its kind in many years.
Fidel Castro has been musing in his regular column about the disaster in Japan and comparing NATO's intervention in Libya to the Nazi involvement in the Spanish Civil War. Although he says nothing about the parade, everyone knows it's coming.
Children have been practicing for a performance that will take place on the stage that is the Plaza de la Revolucion. Yadira, the daughter of a friend of mine, has had to stay up late for several nights now to hone her marching skills. She will hold a cardboard pencil twice as tall as she is, and will be dressed up as one of the militia members who fought off the invaders during what Americans and Cuban emigres call the Battle of the Bay of Pigs, which began 50 years ago Sunday. 
Thousands of workers have been mobilized by the government to take part in the parade. Semi-retired soldiers have been called back up and outdated Russian armaments dusted off so they can be dragged through the streets. Airplanes are supposed to fly above.
I am sitting in my kitchen with my friend Adrian and my mother when we hear them whirring in the sky. ''That's a familiar sound,'' says my mother. A half-century ago, she bore witness to the chain of events that the Cuban government is now trying to relive by retelling the story of a victory and the fulfillment of a national dream.
In Cuba, we do not call it the Bay of Pigs. Instead we call it the Battle of Playa Giron, after the beach where the main battle was fought. As always, there are two ways of talking about what happened: Mercenaries (or patriots), under orders from (with the support of) the C.I.A., attacked (tried to liberate) Cuba, at a place called Playa Giron (Bay of Pigs).
''We can't even agree on the name of the place,'' says Adrian, who is a historian. Or its geography. For some people, it's a beach. For others, a bay. While people here celebrate the defeat of an imperialist's mercenaries, in Miami the survivors of the 2506 Brigade reconvene to commemorate the day Cuban patriots fought against a tyrant in the name of democracy and freedom.
Between sips of hot coffee mixed with ground split peas, which is the cheapest drink you can buy on the streets here, Adrian talks about the contradictions of Cuban history, beginning with the revolutionaries who came with Fidel Castro on a yacht from Mexico in 1956 through the civil war that followed the departure of the dictator Fulgencio Batista. ''Many people died during those 10 years,'' he says. ''We don't know the real history of that period, because everyone wants to push their version of the story, hoping that theirs is the only one that gets told.''
We hear another plane and for a minute the three of us say nothing.
''What we call Playa Giron is just one area within the Bay of Pigs,'' Adrian points out, smiling, as if it's that simple. ''See? It doesn't seem so difficult. But we love to contaminate words, fill them with extraverbal connotations. We even do it with people's names. Calling him Fidel is not the same as calling him Castro.'' Fidel is a close friend and Castro is a distant enemy. ''Ideologically those are two irreconcilable terms.''
''And of course'' -- I am thinking out loud -- ''nobody is willing to compromise. The creation of a Bay of Giron is, for the moment, highly unlikely.''
My mother turns on the television. On every channel, there are announcements for the official event:
''The second secretary of the Central Committee and president of the Councils of State and Ministers, Raul Castro Ruz, during his closing speech at the sessions of the National Assembly of People's Power, announced that the Communist Party of Cuba would soon be holding its Sixth Congress ... to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the proclamation of the socialist nature of the Cuban Revolution and the Playa Giron victory.''
There will be many speeches in the Plaza de la Revolucion this weekend, and I imagine in America as well. But when I look outside, the streets are quiet. Most Cubans are standing in the shade of front doors and building entrances, escaping the tropical sun and dehydration. They are selling toothpicks and homemade costume jewelry. They are taking advantage of the more liberal economic measures announced by Raul Castro last year, which are intended to let more Cubans open small businesses.
When the pageantry is over, everyone knows that these liberal economic policies are what Congress, and the Cuban people, will really be talking about.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); HISTORY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (94%); JAPAN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



407 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Wyoming's Boom Poses Challenges For Obama

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
GILLETTE, Wyo. -- Many economic signs are looking bright for Wyoming right now, and this red-knuckled city of coal miners and oil field mechanics is leading the charge.
''Things are picking up,'' said Cody Chase, 24, who had just finished an overtime shift at a coal mine north of here and was having a 7 a.m. burrito and beer at a downtown breakfast joint. Hours at the mine are up, said Mr. Chase, who makes $26 an hour after less than a year on the job, and new workers have started coming on.
It is the sort of talk that should warm the hearts of political leaders, including President Obama, as he prepares his re-election campaign. He might even expect to get a little boost from it. 
But that does not appear to be in the cards in Wyoming, where he received only 32.5 percent of the vote in 2008, his weakest performance in the nation.
Republicans, who dominate Wyoming politics and culture, are loath to give Mr. Obama credit for good economic news. And environmentalists, who filed a lawsuit this month challenging the entire coal-leasing system, say they think he has failed to live up to his promises on carbon and climate change.
The bottom-line message is that the climb out from this recession, if Wyoming is any measure, could be as politically turbulent as the descent.
Economists say administration policies to reduce imported energy, along with higher commodity prices, are bolstering what Wyoming has to offer -- natural gas and oil, coal so near the surface it can be harvested without underground mines and endless wind for electricity turbines.
Just last month, Mr. Obama's interior secretary, Ken Salazar, came to Wyoming to announce the timetable for billions of dollars in new coal leases near Gillette, in the state's northeast corner. Some coal industry boosters saw that as a strong signal of support -- coming less than two weeks after the Japanese earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis -- for traditional energy as the backbone of the national supply.
But many other residents here say they still see Mr. Obama as the enemy of Wyoming's mineral bounty.
''He's perceived as the energy killer,'' said Barrett K. Norris, co-owner of Thunder Basin Homes, a manufactured housing company in Gillette.
Mr. Norris said that by his company's measure, Wyoming had a very mild eight-month economic slowdown. And in the last few months, the demand for housing -- a proxy for energy markets since the local economy swings by those rhythms -- is back at full throttle. Even cattle ranching, tough in the best of times, is showing strength.
''But I don't know anybody who voted for him or likes him,'' Mr. Norris said of the president.
L. J. Turner, a rancher south of Gillette, also sees the energy sector accelerating into a gallop. But he fears that prospect, especially the impact on air and water from the mines, and the loss of public grazing lands, all of which, he said, affects the 10,000-acre spread homesteaded by his father and grandparents. He voted for Mr. Obama but feels let down.
''I thought he'd be more of an environmentalist,'' Mr. Turner said.
Whether Washington has a coherent energy policy in the West -- and whether it could ravage Wyoming as a resource provider or send its economy to the stratosphere -- is also up for debate.
The administrator of the State Economic Analysis Division, Buck McVeigh, said he thought Mr. Salazar's visit, talking about coal so soon after the Japan quake, was a subtle but powerful message that Wyoming's role as the nation's biggest coal provider was not going away.
The Wyoming Mining Association, a lobby group that represents both coal and drilling interests, read things much the same way.
''He's recognized reality,'' the group's executive director, Marion Loomis, said of Mr. Obama.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Salazar, Kendra Barkoff, said that the timing of the announcement was coincidental.
But she said there was no doubt that Wyoming's broad portfolio of energy sources, from coal, oil and gas to wind and geothermal, made the state crucial in Mr. Obama's plan to reduce the nation's reliance on imported fuels.
Wyoming, with all minerals combined, is a bigger source of thermal energy for the rest of the nation than Canada or Saudi Arabia, let alone any other American state, according to a study several years ago by the Wyoming State Geological Survey.
And a comfortable home for fat state budgets. As many other states look at cuts and layoffs to make ends meet, Wyoming's mineral severance tax collections last year were the third-highest ever, trailing only the boom years of 2006 and 2008.
But there is also perhaps an older, deeper theme at work. A long constant of the culture in this vast state has been the view that powerful forces -- from the railroads in the late 1800s through Wall Street and Washington in the modern era -- are out there pulling the strings, and usually they are not to be trusted too much.
That perspective flows through the state's politics, too, whether the subject is big coal or big politicians.
''If only they could do it in a way that didn't step over all the little people,'' said Karla Oksanen, a Gillette resident who has battled the mines over air quality issues.
Some residents agreed that national energy policies might just be benefiting the West just now.
But Travis Norberg, a 34-year-old coal miner, said economics formed only part of his critique. He said he was proud of his job and happy with the paycheck. But the federal health care overhaul, Mr. Norberg said, is a huge stumbling block to ever thinking favorably about Democrats.
''I just don't agree with it,'' he said.
But in a state where hard-fisted industry and Republican values are so intertwined, even some of those who like Mr. Obama are not eager to speak up.
''I don't need the trouble,'' said a railroad engineer who defended the president, then declined to give his name.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A mural in downtown Gillette, Wyo., which calls itself ''the Energy Capital of the Nation.'' Below left, Lula Belle's Cafe is popular with railroad and energy workers. At the Village Inn, Gene Sweet, Carroll Hindsley and Bill Shelly, who made careers in the oil business, said the Obama administration's energy policies were hurting the industry. The Eagle Butte coal mine just outside of Gillette is in the heart of one of the largest coal-producing areas of the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE REMICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (90%); MINE WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MINERAL LEASES (78%); COAL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RECESSION (77%); OVERTIME (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); UNDERGROUND MINING (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (69%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%); LITIGATION (52%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KEN SALAZAR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



408 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Allies Seek a Refuge For Qaddafi

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Berlin.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration has begun seeking a country, most likely in Africa, that might be willing to provide shelter to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi if he were forced out of Libya, even as a new wave of intelligence reports suggest that no rebel leader has emerged as a credible successor to the Libyan dictator.
The intense search for a country to accept Colonel Qaddafi has been conducted quietly by the United States and its allies, even though the Libyan leader has shown defiance in recent days, declaring that he has no intention of yielding to demands that he leave his country, and intensifying his bombardment of the rebel city of Misurata.
The effort is complicated by the likelihood that he would be indicted for the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland in 1988, and atrocities inside Libya. 
One possibility, according to three administration officials, is to find a country that is not a signatory to the treaty that requires countries to turn over anyone under indictment for trial by the court, perhaps giving Colonel Qaddafi an incentive to abandon his stronghold in Tripoli.
The move by the United States to find a haven for Colonel Qaddafi may help explain how the White House is trying to enforce President Obama's declaration that the Libyan leader must leave the country but without violating Mr. Obama's refusal to put troops on the ground.
The United Nations Security Council has authorized military strikes to protect the Libyan population, but not to oust the leadership. But Mr. Obama and the leaders of Britain and France, among others, have declared that to be their goals, apart from the military campaign.
''We learned some lessons from Iraq, and one of the biggest is that Libyans have to be responsible for regime change, not us,'' one senior administration official said on Saturday. ''What we're simply trying to do is find some peaceful way to organize an exit, if the opportunity arises.''
About half of the countries in Africa have not signed or ratified the Rome Statute, which requires nations to abide by commands from the international court. (The United States has also not ratified the statute, because of concerns about the potential indictment of its soldiers or intelligence agents.) Italy's foreign minister, Franco Frattini, suggested late last month that several African countries could offer Colonel Qaddafi a haven, but he did not identify them.
Even though Colonel Qaddafi has had close business dealings with the leaders of countries like Chad, Mali and Zimbabwe, and there have been pro-Qaddafi rallies elsewhere recently across the continent, it was unclear which, if any, nations were emerging as likely candidates to take in Colonel Qaddafi. The African Union has been quietly sounding out potential hosts, but those negotiations have been closely guarded.
As the drama over Colonel Qaddafi's future has intensified, new details are emerging of the monthlong NATO bombing campaign, which, in the minds of many world leaders, has expanded into a campaign to press the Libyan military and Colonel Qaddafi's aides to turn against him.
That effort has gone more slowly than some expected; after the defection of the former intelligence chief, Moussa Koussa, no other senior officials have broken with the man who has ruled Libya for 42 years.
Six countries -- Britain, Norway, Denmark, France, Canada and Belgium -- have provided more than 60 aircraft that are conducting airstrikes against Libyan targets that attack civilians. But NATO commanders say they are still struggling to come up with at least eight more warplanes to ensure the alliance can sustain a longer-term operation and relieve strain on pilots now flying repeated combat missions.
The United States, which carried out the largest share of strike missions before handing off control of the operation to NATO on April 4, has promised additional fighter-bombers and ground-attack planes if NATO requests them. While some European officials have privately complained that the United States should resume a leading role in the missions, American officials say they have not received any formal requests for more aircraft.
Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama, asserted that in a month's time the coalition has accomplished three major objectives: saving the de facto rebel capital of Benghazi from becoming the site of a civilian atrocity, setting up an international command to protect civilians and clear the skies of Libyan aircraft, and providing modest amounts of humanitarian assistance.
Still, the NATO countries flying ground-attack missions operate under different degrees of caution when striking targets that could hurt civilians or damage mosques, schools or hospitals, complicating the campaign, a senior American military official said. Some pilots have refused to drop their bombs for this reason, the official said, but allied air-war planners cannot predict which pilots will be matched against particular targets.
''Without a doubt, it is frustrating working through all this to get maximum effect for our efforts and dealing with all these variants,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid upsetting coalition partners.
American officials concede that the rebel leaders have not settled on who might succeed Colonel Qaddafi if he is ousted, and some fear that tribal warfare could break out if there is no consensus figure who could bind the country together.
White House officials say that while they would have liked to see Colonel Qaddafi depart already, they believe that pressure is building.
''There are aspects of the passage of time that work against Qaddafi, if we can cut him off from weapons, material and cash,'' Mr. Rhodes said. He added that ''it affects the calculations of the people around him. But it will take time for the opposition group to gel.''
This month, an American envoy, Chris Stevens, was sent to Benghazi to learn more about the Transitional National Council. The group has pledged to work toward new presidential and parliamentary elections after Colonel Qaddafi's ouster, uphold human rights, draft a constitution and encourage the formation of political parties. Mr. Stevens is expected to stay as long as a month, security permitting, State Department officials said.
The United Nations special envoy to Libya, Abdelilah al-Khatib, a former Jordanian foreign minister, is also meeting with opposition figures, as well as with members of Colonel Qaddafi's government to explore possible diplomatic settlement.
Perhaps the most prominent member of the government in waiting is Mahmoud Jibril, a planning expert who defected from the Qaddafi government. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has met twice with Mr. Jibril, who American diplomats say is the group's most polished and savvy public figure. He also spoke to several NATO, Arab and African ministers who gathered in Doha, Qatar, last Wednesday to discuss the Libya crisis.
Another leading council member is Ali Tarhouni, who was appointed finance minister of the rebels' shadow government. Mr. Tarhouni, who teaches economics at the University of Washington, returned to Libya in February after more than 35 years in exile to advise the opposition on economic matters.
''With respect to the opposition, we are learning more all the time,'' Mrs. Clinton said in Berlin on Friday. ''We are pooling our information. There are a number of countries that have significant ties to members of the oppositions, who have a presence in Benghazi that enables them to collect information. Our envoy is still in Benghazi and meeting with a broad cross-section of people.''
Mrs. Clinton told NATO ministers that the coalition had acknowledged the transitional council was ''a legitimate and important interlocutor for the Libyan people.'' She added: ''We all need to deepen our engagement with and increase our support for the opposition.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INDICTMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BOMBINGS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); FRANCO FRATTINI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (73%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%); CHAD (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); MALI (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); FRANCE (68%); ITALY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



409 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Atlas Without Angelina

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
It was Ayn Rand's nightmare: the president who gave hundreds of billions in hand-outs to homeowners, banks, car executives and various others she would have labeled ''moochers'' was explaining his vision of why America is great.
''It's not the size of our skyscrapers,'' President Obama told cheering fans at a late-night rally Thursday at Chicago's Navy Pier. ''It's not the size of our G.D.P.'' 
It's not even just because we're individuals, he said, adding, ''We also have this idea that we're all in this together, that we look out for one another, that I am my brother's keeper.''
Rand would have considered this warmed over, mommy party, it-takes-a-village piffle.
Obama is antithetical to Rand's ideal man, Howard Roark, the architect of skyscrapers who violently refuses to exist for others. Paul Ryan, trying to push the cost of Medicare and Medicaid onto the old, the sick and the disabled while rewarding insurance companies with bigger profits, would be more up her alley.
Indeed, Congressman Ryan has said the reason he got involved in public service was ''by and large'' because of Rand, and he has encouraged his staffers to read ''Atlas Shrugged.''
You'd think that our fiscal meltdown would have shown the flaw in Rand's philosophy. She thought we could derive morals from the markets. But we derived immorality from the markets.
She wrote about Nietzschean superheroes who made things. She died before capitalism evolved into a vampire casino where you could bet against investments you sold to your clients, and make money off something you didn't own or that existed only on paper.
The sexy Manichean 'toons in the novels of the goddess of capitalism don't behave unethically. When they blow up things, it's because they will not be sacrificial victims to evil second-raters.
Greed had a less ennobling effect on real genius capitalists. Instead of fighting the looters, they joined the looters.
What Rand and acolytes like Alan Greenspan failed to realize is that if everyone acts in self-interest and no one takes into account the weakness to the entire system that occurs when everybody indulges in the same kind of risky behavior, the innocent and the guilty are engulfed.
Nevertheless, Rand is blazing back as an icon of the Tea Party, which overlooks her atheism, amorality in romance and vigorous support for abortion.
Tea Party groups are helping to market part one of a low-budget film version of ''Atlas Shrugged,'' with no stars and none of the campy panache of the Gary Cooper-Patricia Neal movie of ''The Fountainhead.'' ''Atlas Shrugged'' aptly opened on Tax Day, getting a rave from Sean Hannity, who said it wouldn't have been released ''had Hollywood liberals gotten their way,'' and a dismissive shrug from most critics, even conservatives.
''I will not pan 'Atlas Shrugged,' '' P. J. O'Rourke wrote in a pan in The Wall Street Journal. ''I don't have the guts.''
''I'm not sure she's dead,'' he said of Rand.
The 1,200-page novel took Rand 12 years to write. After debuting to searing reviews in 1957, it has been going gangbusters ever since. It was at No. 19 on Amazon Friday night.
Al Ruddy, the charismatic producer of ''The Godfather'' and ''Million Dollar Baby'' (and a Democrat), spent decades trying to make Rand's master work into a movie.
''Dagny Taggart is the greatest role ever written for a woman,'' he said in his gravelly voice. ''She's a great executive, she's gorgeous, and the three greatest guys in the world are all mad about her. Hot stuff about cool geniuses.'' In 1975, he wanted to pull together ''a dream cast,'' with Fay Dunaway as Dagny, Clint Eastwood as Hank Rearden, Robert Redford as John Galt and Alain Delon as Francisco d'Anconia.
He went to New York to talk to Rand, crowding onto a love seat at her agent's with the tiny objectivist, who loved manly men like Ruddy. She agreed that he could focus on the love story. ''That's all it ever was,'' she said.
But she wanted final script approval. ''Darlink,'' she told him in her Russian accent as she smoked, ''I trust you, but the Russians will buy Paramount to destroy my book.''
He refused to give Rand, who started as a tyro Hollywood screenwriter in the days of Cecil B. DeMille, that much control. He kept trying, including for a TNT miniseries with John Aglialoro, an exercise machine mogul who owns the rights (he produced and co-wrote the film that's out now), hoping for Angelina Jolie, Brad Pitt and Javier Bardem.
But after 9/11, he gave up. ''At the end of 'Atlas Shrugged,' mills, ships and mines are blown up,'' Ruddy said. ''And I thought, wait a second, do people really want to see a movie about America being blown up and destroyed?''
He thinks the story will have a second life with stars. '' 'Atlas Shrugged' is the most important novel of the 20th century,'' Ruddy says, ''It will rise again.'''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); ETHICS (69%); MEDICARE (67%); INSURANCE (66%); MEDICAID (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



410 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Seeds of 2011's Budget Troubles Were Planted, by the Legislature, in 2006

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column for the Tribune.
The 2006 tax swap -- lowering local school property taxes and creating a new state business tax to make up the difference -- is at the center of the state's current budget troubles. It was never an even swap, and the architects are still pointing fingers over what and whom to blame for the ''structural deficit'' in state finances.
Then-Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn told lawmakers at the time that the package of bills didn't balance. But it was easy to dismiss her warnings because Ms. Strayhorn, a brash and ambitious Republican, was also campaigning as an independent for governor against Rick Perry, and they were widely seen as a political attack on the incumbent. 
In May 2006, she wrote a letter to Mr. Perry (copying it to reporters, of course) saying the swap was ''the largest tax increase in history and leaves the largest hot check in Texas history.'' By her reckoning, the state was raising $23 billion less with its new taxes over the first five years than it was promising in relief to property taxpayers in local school districts around the state.
Here's a line that seemed inflammatory then but looks practically clairvoyant today: ''At worst, it will relegate Texans to Draconian cuts in critical areas like education and health care for at least a generation. This is not a victory for taxpayers. It is a sham, and Texans will see it for what it is.''
She urged Mr. Perry to veto it. He signed it instead.
Lawmakers had a surplus the next time they met in regular session, in 2007. In 2009, they were prepared for the worst, with a wobbly economy and the effects of the school finance swap catching up with them.
Then they found a pot of gold, in the form of federal stimulus money. A recent report from the state auditor says Texas has received $22.6 billion in stimulus money as of February. Lawmakers got out of trouble in the 2009 session with an overall budget bigger than the one they had written two years earlier.
The trouble started in 2006, when lawmakers were searching for something that would keep the state out of court over how it finances public schools. Specifically, they wanted to lower local school property taxes. But they needed new revenue to do it.
Mr. Perry, a Republican, called on the former Comptroller John Sharp, a Democrat. The politics were strange: the two men were college buddies at Texas A&M and, later, political rivals -- running against each other in a high-profile race for lieutenant governor in 1998 -- and, after the scars got old, buddies again. Mr. Sharp had run in 2002 against Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst; they hadn't (and haven't) reconciled, which explains why the lieutenant governor is among those who blame the current problems on ''Sharp's business tax.''
Mr. Perry and his wingman assembled a blue-ribbon business panel, which proposed a new state business tax and a list of other measures that could lower local property taxes, keep the school finance lawyers at bay and not raise objections from professional and amateur tax protesters. They even got Grover Norquist to say it wasn't a new tax if it didn't ultimately increase the state's income.
After the business tax passed, it raised much less than Texas had promised to spend. The Texas Taxpayers and Research Association, a business association that specializes in fiscal matters, estimated this year that the 2006 swap costs the state $10.6 billion every two years, about half of it for the tax relief and about half for the increased spending on schools that got thrown in to sweeten the package. That was supposed to be made up by state surpluses -- hey, it was a boom economy -- and, in fact, that's what happened at first.
Now the state is in the hole, and some blame the 2006 adventure. But as Dale K. Craymer, president of the taxpayers association, pointed out, they weren't yelling about it when the state was running surpluses. Mr. Sharp's somewhat defensive version is that lawmakers used a state surplus that year to pay for school improvements and that the comptrollers then and now overestimated what the new business tax would collect.
Even so, everything worked, as long as the state was running surpluses. The economy wrecked that, and the stimulus let lawmakers put off the problem for two years.
Now it's over, and they're talking about a ''structural deficit.'' Mr. Sharp said it's simpler than that: ''The definition of a structural deficit is, 'I ain't got enough money to spend.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); VETO (77%); POLITICS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



411 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: The Mets Do Not Have to Look Far to Find Bidders

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR; Peter Lattman and David Waldstein contributed reporting.

 BODY:
He is a man in his 40s or 50s and is probably from Long Island.
He almost certainly works in finance, and he probably roots for the Mets.
Who is he? He is one of the men angling to buy a minority share of the Mets.
The general profile of the known bidders for the Mets is not surprising, but it lacks the diversity of team owners who built ships (George Steinbrenner), sold cars (Bud Selig), co-founded Home Depot (Arthur Blank), erected shopping malls (Herb Simon) or started Microsoft (Paul Allen) with Bill Gates. 
It makes sense that rich native Long Islanders would want a piece of the Mets despite their recent dismal on-field record and hefty financial losses. About one-quarter of the Mets' fan base comes from the New York suburbs of Nassau and Suffolk Counties. A locally bred fan in the prime of his career -- with lots of money -- might be more willing than an outsider to accept a stake in the team that gives him no control. And in an economy in which Wall Street is faring better than most industries, a New York team can attract cash from financial executives.
''New York is where you'd think the money would come from,'' said Rob Tilliss, the founder of Inner Circle Sports, a sports investment bank and adviser. ''There are enough local buyers around the New York metropolitan area with substantial money.''
The sale for a limited partnership is nearing its final stage as the owners look at three offers for up to 49 percent of the Mets. Fred Wilpon, the Mets' principal owner, was 43 when he bought a small piece of the team in 1980. He is from Brooklyn, whence people fled farther east; lives on the wealthy North Shore of Nassau County; put the headquarters of his company, Sterling Equities, in Great Neck; and made his money in real estate. His former partner in the Mets, Nelson Doubleday, was also a wealthy Long Islander, who published books.
More than 30 years later, Steven A. Cohen fits the parameters of the modern, updated profile. Cohen, a billionaire hedge fund manager in Connecticut, is 54. He runs SAC Capital Advisors, a powerful $12 billion hedge fund in Stamford, where the former Mets manager Bobby Valentine is the public safety director, and lives in Greenwich, Conn., where Tom Seaver lived before turning to winemaking. Cohen, who is from Great Neck, has a suite at Citi Field.
Anthony Scaramucci, also a hedge fund manager, is the profile personified. He is 47. He grew up in Port Washington. He lives in Manhasset. He delivered Newsday as a youngster. He took the Long Island Rail Road to Shea Stadium to watch the Mets. And Valentine gave him a blurb for his book, ''Goodbye Gordon Gekko.''
Scaramucci still appears to be in the running to pay up to $200 million for less than half of the Mets, along with a neighbor in Manhasset, James F. McCann, whose son, Matt, works for Scaramucci.
McCann is 59, from Rockaway, Queens (a borough that is still a geographic part of Long Island), and while not a Wall Street Master of the Universe, runs a business, 1-800-Flowers.com, from Carle Place on Long Island.
McCann has a direct connection to the Mets through his sponsorship of the team.
Steven Starker, another Wall Streeter, is from Brooklyn (also geographically part of Long Island) and was a founder of BTIG, a global trading firm. Two of his bidding partners also have Long Island roots. Kenny Dichter, a co-founder of Marquis Jets, and Doug Ellin, who created the HBO series ''Entourage,'' are 1986 graduates of Kennedy High School in Merrick, which last year inducted them into its hall of fame. The status of their offer for the Mets has not been determined. But it is typical of a process like the one being run by the investment firm Allen & Company to ask finalists to improve their bids.
David Heller and Marc Spilker epitomized the investor profile, too, but they are out of the bidding. They are fabulously rich Mets fans, in their 40s, from Long Island. Spilker graduated from W. C. Mepham High School in Bellmore. Heller is a global co-leader of Goldman Sachs's securities division. Spilker was a Goldman executive but is now president of Apollo Global Management, a private equity firm.
One of the first men in his 40s to voice an interest in the Mets was Mike Repole, the owner of the Kentucky Derby hopeful Uncle Mo. He is 42, grew up in Middle Village, Queens, lives on Long Island and made his wealth when Coca-Cola paid $4.1 billion for the company he co-founded, Glaceau, the maker of Vitaminwater. He balked at bidding without getting any control over the team.
Still another bidder, about whom little has been heard, is Jason Reese. He is in the financial world, as chairman of an investment bank called Imperial Capital in faraway Los Angeles. Still, he is a native Long Islander who played goal on the West Babylon High School lacrosse team and later for Yale.
One pair of bidders who have dropped out barely fit the profile. Leo Hindery, a media investor, and Marc A. Utay, managing partner of a private equity firm, work in Manhattan. But Hindery is from Washington State and Utay from Glenview, Ill.
The current profile of the Mets' bidders resembles, to some degree, that of Joan Whitney Payson -- an heiress whose main home was in Manhasset, and who, in her late 50s, became the first owner of the Mets, and their most ardent fan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony Scaramucci, a hedge fund manager, used to take the train to Shea Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (64%); WINERIES (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (70%); ARTHUR M BLANK (55%); BILL GATES (54%); PAUL ALLEN (54%); STEVEN COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



412 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
NUCLEAR CLEANUP PLAN
HINGES ON UNKNOWNS
Even before the troubled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant has been brought under control, two conglomerates vying for contracts in an eventual cleanup are estimating that the effort could take 10 years -- or 30. The widely divergent outlooks underscore the basic uncertainties clouding any forecast for Fukushima. PAGE 8
PROTECTED DOLPHINS AS RIVALS
Though Brazil's pink dolphins are protected by law, fishermen see them as nettlesome competitors for the catches that feed their families, and frustration sometimes boils over. The illegal slaughtering of dolphins is on the rise, threatening one of the storied symbols of the Amazon and illustrating the challenge of policing environmental law in such a vast territory. PAGE 6 
LIBYAN REBELS CITE AID
Libyan rebels say they have begun receiving arms shipments from abroad, although there has been no independent confirmation of that. PAGE 10
ATTACK ON NATO TROOPS
For the second time in two days, a suicide bomber used an Afghan National Security uniform to elude early detection and approach his target, killing five NATO service members attending a meeting at the headquarters of the Afghan 201 Corps. The bombing was one of the worst attacks of its kind, NATO and Afghan military officials said. PAGE 9
CUBA RECALLS BAY OF PIGS
Fighter jets streaked overhead, gleaming tanks rumbled down streets and hundreds of thousands of people chanted in revolutionary fervor as Cuba at once looked back with a celebration of the 50th anniversary of the failed Bay of Pig invasion and ahead to a congress that may decide its future. PAGE 8
National
BOOM POSES CHALLENGES
Many economic signs are looking bright for Wyoming right now, and it is the sort of talk that should warm the hearts of political leaders, including President Obama, as he prepares his re-election campaign. But the climate in the state suggests that that the recovery from the recession, if Wyoming is any measure, could be as polically turbulent as the descent. PAGE 15
PASTOR CLAIMS DECEPTION
The pastor who stoked violence in Afghanistan this month after burning a Koran produced an audiotape that he said proves he was deceived last September when he agreed to cancel plans to burn 200 copies of the Koran. PAGE 18
OBAMA TAKES ON CONGRESS
President Obama issued a signing statement saying that he would not abide by a provision in the new budget designed to prevent him from appointing White House ''czars'' to oversee major policy initiatives. PAGE 16
New York
BEEFSTEAK BANQUETS
UNDERGO A REVIVAL
Some residents' desire to recreate history have brought about a small rebirth of the classic New York beefsteak: the time-honored, Tammany-era smorgasbord where scores of hungry carnivores would gorge themselves on endless trays of sirloin and bottomless pints of beer. PAGE 20
A 4-D ZOO IN CENTRAL PARK
A new theater at the Central Park Zoo, has just begun showing ''Planet Earth: Ice Worlds,'' a movie being promoted as a ''4-D experience.'' It's an educational 3-D look at penguins, polar bears, musk oxen and other creatures that live near the North or South Pole. But the real attraction is that fourth D. Neil Genzlinger, City Critic. PAGE 20
SPORTS
AS OTHERS SUPERSIZE, N.H.L. DOWNSIZES
Since the 2004-5 lockout, the N.H.L. has strictly enforced rules against hooking, holding and other forms of obstruction, and legalized the long two-line pass. One consequence has been an increase in high-speed collisions and reported concussions. But a happier outcome has been greater space and freedom to create, for players of all sizes. PAGE 1
SUMMER WITH UNCLE CASEY
When Casey Stengel was managing old DiMaggio and young Mantle in 1951, he might have seemed like a lion tamer or a juggler but not an uncle. When he was creating the Amazin' Mets in 1962, he may have seemed like a street magician but not exactly an uncle, George Vecsey writes. PAGE 1
FREEDIVERS TEST ENDURANCE
In the extreme sport of freediving, competitors see how deep they can go on a single breath without benefit of a breathing apparatus. Divers must resist the near overwhelming instinct to take in air, then, once they resurface, must often be prodded to start breathing again. PAGE 7 KNICKS RELY ON POINT GUARD
The last time a rising Knicks team played an aging championship Boston squad in the first round of the N.B.A. playoffs, mortality visited the favored Celtics at a most inopportune moment. Twenty-one years later, we have a potential re-enactment. Harvey Araton, On Basketball. PAGE 4
OBITUARIES
CYRUS HARVEY, 85
A quirky entrepreneur, Cyrus I. Harvey created two significant brands in disparate fields -- Janus Films, a distributor of movies by international directors like Bergman, Fellini and Kurosawa, and Crabtree & Evelyn, the purveyor of aromatic soaps and botanicals. PAGE 22
Sunday Business
DISTILLING THE WISDOM
OF DOZENS OF C.E.O.S
Interviews conducted with more than 70 chief executives and other leaders point to five essentials for success -- qualities that most of those C.E.O.'s share and look for in people they hire. The good news: these traits are not genetic and they aren't theories. Page 1
CHARITY, CENTS AT A TIME
Noah Frandin said it was a relief to turn 18: he no longer needs his mother to co-sign the nondisclosure agreements and other documents related to his plan to change the world. Mr. Fradin, a high school senior and budding entrepreneur, is the creator of a new Internet start-up that seeks to make it easy for consumers to give money to the charities of their choice. Page 3
APPS FOR DRUNK DRIVERS
Google and Apple, at political urging, often pull Apps from their online stores that may help drunk drivers avoid sobriety checkpoints. While these apps do nothing illegal according to store policies, they interfere with the checkpoints' purpose: not to catch drunk drivers, but to deter them before they get behind the wheel. Page 3
Automobiles
TEST DRIVING A PROTOTYPE
FOR A NEW YORK CITY CAB
Taking the Ford Transit Connect, one of three finalists in the competition to become New York City's next taxi, for a little test drive around its new potential home, seems a bit like driving straight to the future. The Transit Connect, which Ford also sells as a hardy little delivery van, wore an aspirational yellow-and-black checkerboard paint job. Sports, Page 9
Magazine
ASKING IF CELLPHONES
CAUSE BRAIN CANCER
Yes, no, maybe -- the answer seems to change with every new study. Finding the definitive solution turns out to be a science in itself. Page 30
Arts & Leisure
MORTAL KOMBAT I BACK
IN A FIGHT FOR THE FUTURE
When a slick trailer hit the Internet for a new Mortal Kombat movie, it created a huge buzz among fans. It was too well-done to be a guerrilla project, right? Wrong. That's exactly what it was. Page 1
Book Review
FROM A JUMBLE OF PAGES
COME AUTHOR'S LAST WORDS
Tom McCarthy offers some angles of understanding for David Foster Wallace's novel, ''The Pale King, an Unfinished Novel.'' Assembled from a jumble of disks and papers both printed and hand-written, the novel is a grand parable of post-industrial culture. Page 1
Education Life
SEARCHING FOR RIGOR
IN BUSINESS STUDIES
Business students, on average, study less and score lower on national tests. That's a problem: over 20 percent of all undergraduate degrees are in the field. Page 16
Editorial
GUANTaNAMO, ON TRIAL
A credible reckoning for 9/11 defendants begins with untainted evidence and transparency. Week in Review, Page 7
WRONGFUL FORECLOSURES
Regulators don't know how many foreclosures are improper, and won't ask. Week in Review, Page 7
WALT WHITMAN, SCRIVENER
A trove of government documents bearing Walt Whitman's handwriting and signature give the lie to tales of his being a slacker of a bureaucrat. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Oh, youth: the power to reduce crime, improve calculus scores and overthrow dictators. Week in Review, Page 9
MAUREEN DOWD
You'd think that our fiscal meltdown would have shown the flaw in Ayn Rand's philosophy, but she is blazing back. Week in Review, Page 8
ROGER COHEN
The intervention in Libya underlines a shift in French and German diplomacy, and leadership. Week in Review, Page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); POWER PLANTS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); MAMMALS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



413 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL FORD TRANSIT CONNECT TAXI; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Take Me to the Future, and Step on It

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
''FUTURE cab?'' the taxi driver, Arif, asked with a smile. He had pulled his battered Ford Crown Victoria alongside the gleaming new vehicle I was driving around Columbus Circle and took pictures with his cellphone camera as if he had spotted a celebrity on the street.
In a way, he had. I was driving a Ford Transit Connect, one of three finalists in the competition to become New York City's next taxi. The Transit Connect, which Ford also sells as a hardy little delivery van, wore an aspirational yellow-and-black checkerboard paint job.
It's easy to see why Arif and many other cabbies who pulled up to talk during my week with the cab were so interested: with Crown Victoria production to end this summer, New York City's Taxi and Limousine Commission will pick a single van to be phased in, starting as early as 2013, as the official bearer of the yellow and black. 
The bake-off for what has been called the Taxi of Tomorrow was set in 2007; Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced the three finalists last November. All are boxy high-top vans with sliding doors for passengers. The two other finalists are made by Nissan and by Karsan, a Turkish company; both the Ford and Karsan vans are manufactured in Turkey. A final decision is expected within a month.
It's a big moment. New Yorkers love and hate their taxis and their drivers, part of the city's cultural DNA, from Robert De Niro's homicidal Travis Bickle to the rerun antics of the ensemble cast of the sitcom ''Taxi.'' The Checker Marathons of those times are gone, replaced by a motley fleet of Crown Vics, minivans and hybrids.
So things are going to change over the next few years. Ford offered an exclusive test drive of its entry, and who are we to say no to driving the future?
Besides, I'm a newspaper reporter in the 21st century. It's important to keep career alternatives in mind.
''You'll have to hand over all tips,'' my editor joked.
When I drove the Transit Connect taxi home the first night, my wife took a liking to the beast. Who has ever seen a brand-new cab? Besides, it was almost cute: at 181 inches long, it was shorter than her Buick Century. I drove her to the grocery store, and she observed that the three-section passenger seat was covered in a stiff, durable plastic upholstery. ''I'll bet you could clean vomit and pee off of these, no problem,'' she said. ''Blood, too.''
Practical, my wife.
The Transit Connect is fun to drive -- more maneuverable than a cargo van, stiffer than a family minivan. The big tires and heavy suspension give it a tough, omnipotent feel on the road, and the city's potholes didn't seem quite as jarring as they usually do. The reverse sensing system -- a color monitor integrated into the mirror -- lessened the anxiety of backing into parking spaces.
With its doorstop snout, big windows and high roof, the cab drew comments from actual cab drivers and passengers alike. The cabbies observed it with the critical eye of connoisseurs. One, seeing the Michigan plates, said through his open window, ''Go home!''
He shook his head from the comfort of his Crown Vic. ''I'm 300 pounds.'' he said. ''I can't sit in that for 12 hours. It looks beautiful, but for the big people, I don't know.''
Other drivers give it a thumbs up. ''I like it, it's going to be good,'' said a cabbie who gave his name as Jaman.
Passengers seemed to like it, too. This was not a legal cab -- it had no medallion or meter or even a light on top, and I don't have a hack license. (Go ahead, make the joke.)
Pulling up to potential riders on the street, I introduced myself and explained that I was offering free rides in exchange for an honest back-seat evaluation of the cab. Surprisingly, several trusting souls obliged. I didn't even have to resort to offering the candy I'd brought along.
My first passengers were a mother and her adult daughter who were finishing up a lunchtime round of shopping in Times Square and accepted a ride to the Upper East Side. The two women, Priscilla Hasty and Kendra Sykes, pronounced themselves impressed. Ms. Hasty, who has had a hip replaced, said she was pleasantly surprised that the door sill was low enough that she didn't have to strain to climb in.
''This is easier to step into'' than other taxi vans, she said. Her daughter added, ''I love the high ceiling.''
As we rolled up Third Avenue, Ms. Hasty praised the ''really smooth ride'' of the Transit Connect, though she added, ''Maybe we didn't hit any potholes.''
As they climbed out at 59th Street and Third Avenue, a young man with a white cane, Derek Suarez, was hailing. I pulled up and explained the ersatz-cab situation, and he accepted a free ride to his home on 94th Street.
Mr. Suarez liked the cab as well. ''The seat feels good,'' he said. ''It's pretty solid, and that's good for me. I've got a bad back.'' After experiencing the more potholed streets uptown, he said, ''It could use some shocks -- you feel the bumps.'' Still, he too said he was pleased with the experience.
On another morning in a light drizzle, Tracy Vaughn and Keisha Stephens, tourists from the San Francisco Bay area, hailed the cab. Ms. Vaughn said it was ''definitely more spacious'' than the last cab they'd been in. In most respects, the specifications bear her out. In taxi form, the Transit Connect has 41.5 inches of rear legroom, generous compared with most midsize sedans and only slightly less than the extended version of the Crown Victoria, which is more than three feet longer.
Headroom comparisons are more startling: 50.2 inches for the Transit Connect vs. 37.8 for the Crown Vic. And the Transit Connect's commodious cargo area (67.5 cubic feet) puts the Crown Vic's trunk (20.6 cubic feet) to shame.
Fuel economy will be better, too: the Transit Connect's combined city/highway rating is 23 miles per gallon, compared with about 19 for the Crown Vic.
Ford also offers a version that can run on either compressed natural gas or propane. While the company is mum as to whether a hybrid taxi may be coming, Ford is offering, or planning, hybrid versions of many other models.
As I ferried Ms. Vaughn and Ms. Stephens, I realized that driving a cab might be harder than Judd Hirsch made it look. I blanked when they told me they wanted to go to the Letterman show. It is taped, of course, at the Ed Sullivan Theater on Broadway at 53rd Street. But under the pressure of having to take someone there, my mental map blew away.
''Can I take you somewhere else?'' I asked. They suggested Rockefeller Center, which I could handle, and we made our way though the drizzle. I admitted, ''I don't think it's really right for a cab driver to try to convince people to go only to places that he knows how to get to.'' They said they were happy just to get a few minutes out of the rain. I love out-of-towners!
When the test drive was over, I gave the big yellow taxi back with a touch of regret. My next-door neighbor seemed to feel the same way. ''What happened to the cab?'' he asked a few days later with a smile. ''I thought it was the new company car.''
Everybody, it seems, has ideas for improving the cash flow of newspapers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FREE RIDE: Prototype cab stands out even in Times Square. Nonpaying passengers who checked it out included Priscilla Hasty, at left below, and her daughter Kendra Sykes. (AU1)
 HAILING THAT CAB: Top, Derek Suarez liked the seats. Above, left to right, Priscilla Hasty said the low floor made the Transit Connect taxi ''easier to step into,'' while her daughter Kendra Sykes praised the high roof. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); MINIVANS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CITY LIFE (76%); WRITERS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%); ROBERT DE NIRO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); TURKEY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



414 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: Under Threat: The Shock Of the Old

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
''WHAT happened to Africa?'' an art-world friend asked. ''It disappeared.''
She was right. Do a quick scan of major exhibitions in big American museums in the past few years and Africa's barely there. The same with India. Even China, usually an easier sell, is seen only discreetly. Wasn't the multicultural surge of yesteryear supposed to produce the opposite effect?
Another thing. A lot of new non-Western acquisitions by museums are of contemporary art. Classical African sculptures still turn up. But they're outnumbered by dynamic, straight-from-the-studio work, like the glowing wall hangings made of bottle caps by the Ghanaian artist El Anatsui, and the masks pieced together from gasoline jugs and junked hardware by Romuald Hazoume of Benin.
Where the pull toward the new is particularly strong, though, is in university art history programs, the training grounds of future museum personnel. An overwhelming number of applicants now declare contemporary art their field of choice: 80 percent was a figure I heard repeatedly -- but unofficially -- in conversations during the annual College Art Association conference this winter. 
So the situation is that our encyclopedic museums -- the ones that most people visit, and look to as repositories of what we most value in art -- are rarely doing ambitiously scaled, big-idea shows of older non-Western art, and American art historians of the rising generation aren't studying it these days. (Europe is doing somewhat better on both counts.) In the craze for the new, certain areas of Western art are being neglected too. But it's non-Western art, chronically marginalized, that is especially vulnerable.
Lack of visibility tends to lead to lack of financing, which translates into slow, halting research, leaving vast amounts of foundational field work barely started. All the while, time is taking its toll. Cultures are vanishing and changing form in urbanizing Africa. Ancient monuments are crumbling in India. Vital aesthetic traditions in China are fading fast. As an additional handicap, again, contrary to multiculturalist expectations, the numbers of new graduate students in most non-Western fields have not grown significantly in decades.
The bottom line is plain: unless some of those few scholars stay on the case, we risk losing both the art and the history in ''art history,'' particularly where conservational safeguards are fragile or difficult to maintain.
That said, the reasons people pursue careers in newer art are understandable. Money is one. To an unprecedented degree, contemporary art, no matter what its geographic or cultural source, is now thoroughly tied to and buoyed by the global economy. This phenomenon is fairly recent. Not long ago the contemporary market meant Europe and America. Now it also means New Delhi, Beijing and Dubai. New art has become a worldwide industry. Industries generate jobs.
Holders of degrees in contemporary art history don't have to limit their career prospects to the low-paying teaching gigs that remain the fate of their colleagues in more traditional studies. They can, in greater numbers than ever, become curators, corporate advisers, auction house experts and dealers in a luxury business that has, so far, floated above the prevailing economic turbulence. Sticklers for academic orthodoxy are prone to hint at corner-cutting features of a contemporary-art major. Language requirements are often minimal, English being the global art world lingua franca. And with only the history of today and yesterday to deal with, primary research can be done, over a Starbucks latte, via Google.
Such skeptics might be persuaded to acknowledge that modern and contemporary studies offer perception-altering images of an art long-filtered through Western stereotypes. At the same time, these skeptics would have serious problems with other scholars in the contemporary field who hold traditional -- ''tribal'' -- art partly responsible for perpetuating those stereotypes, and who, for that reason, avoid it.
And avoidance is easy. The market has made it so.
Starting in the 1950s, traditional objects came in a great wave to the United States from Africa, where they were bought, in quantity and at modest prices, by groups of avid amateur collectors. This influx of art, much of it excitingly unfamiliar, coincided with and encouraged a boom in scholarship by young art historians, many of them recent Peace Corps veterans who were doing extensive field work in Africa.
To simplify a complicated story, the flow stopped in the 1980s. The supply of objects that met Western requirements of value -- age, evidence of ritual use, beauty of a kind that fit modernist criteria -- came to an end. Art-wise, Africa was farmed out. With the new scarcity, prices soared; the days of buying and discovery more or less ended. Private collections went to museums, where they were -- and are -- occasionally refreshed by new additions. Meanwhile scholars were beginning to examine other, more accessible African genres: photography, film, sign painting, fashion, much of it being created in the present.
Major collecting of traditional -- meaning premodern -- Asian art ended around the same time, for different reasons. India and China placed their cultural patrimonies in lockdown, where they have stayed, with China now aggressively buying back art from abroad. Even borrowing it has become difficult to impossible.
Recent exhibitions of Chinese art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art required virtuosic diplomacy, with loans being negotiated up to the 11th hour. A show of ancient Indian sculpture that was scheduled to open at Asia Society in February has yet to materialize; the objects from museums in Pakistan, which make up most of the show, have not been sent.
Small wonder that the Met and other museums have begun to supplement their non-Western holdings with contemporary work, available and affordable, while the Asia Society has for over a decade devoted much of its energy to new art from Asia and its diasporas.
The shift to new from old in academia has occurred within roughly the same time frame. Young scholars of African art began focusing on present-day urban material culture rather than on an object-intensive study of rural traditions. Research in Indian art began to start where it once stopped: at the modern era. Chinese art history, which long doggedly clung to an age-old practice of connoisseurship, has absorbed Western social and political theory.
The attempt to unite traditional and contemporary remains a source of tension, like an identity crisis unresolved. Some scholars continue to decry present-mindedness. They hear a clock ticking, and see only the preservative work not being done. Others take a more positive view: African and Asian cultures, they say, by their volatile and multifarious natures, are in states of perpetual transformation. This present is always, instantaneously, the new past. We document that instant.
As for museums, they haven't figured out what to do. Blockbuster-consciousness has them thinking ancient, rare, monumental, expensive, never-seen-before. All of this is now harder and harder to come up with, but institutions won't risk trying alternative models, though there are some out there. (Just look at exhibition catalogs published by the Museum for African Art in New York in the 1980s and '90s.)
But the big question is, why does the direction taken by museums, or by art history as a discipline, have to be an either-or? Traditional or contemporary, old-style or new style, in-the-field or online. That's the rhythm of fashion: something always has to be out so that something else can be in. But writing the history of art shouldn't work that way. Good artists don't work that way. Why not take lessons from them?
Check out, for example, the Indian artist Pushpamala N. who, in one photograph, poses as the Hindu goddess Lakshmi as depicted in an early 20th-century painting by Raja Ravi Varma, which was turned into a popular devotional print. In the photograph (taken by Clare Arni) Pushpamala N. is a deity, a Bollywood film star and a contemporary performance artist.
Or consider the Chinese conceptualist Ai Weiwei, who is now in police custody in Beijing. He updates museum-quality Neolithic vases by dipping them in candy-colored industrial paint. Or Wangechi Mutu, born in Kenya, now living New York, whose collages combine, among other things, images of classical African carving and clippings from porn and fashion magazines.
These artists combine old and new in ways that look like nothing seen before.
Nothing seen before was what a generation of art historians of Africa found and responded to 40 years ago, both on the ground in Africa and in American private collections: a stream of dazzling raw data that delivered sensual shocks and inspired new ideas. Young scholars, many of them students of those historians, are finding the same stimulation in contemporary work.
And now, as the field changes generational hands, it's crucial to bring both streams into alignment, to start looking again for the new in the traditional (it's there), and to start locating links to the past in the new (also there). How and at what pace these navigations will proceed remains an open question, but there's some evidence that movement is underway. The many dozens of research papers presented last month at the Triennial Symposium of African Art in Los Angeles indicated shifts of balance in the field. Amid reports on Somali cinema, Ghanaian haute couture and South African World Cup paraphernalia, there were presentations on ancient Malian terra cottas and Songye power figures. Three panels on the art of African iron-working, from ancient times to the present, represented hands-on field work of a kind that has been on the decline, and promised an exhibition to boot. And there was the vitalizing presence of 18 historians who were born in Africa and now work there, true stakeholders in how it is perceived and preserved.
A small show now at the Met points a way for museums to go with their increasingly hybrid, category-crossing non-Western collections. Titled ''Reconfiguring an African Icon: Odes to the Mask by Modern and Contemporary Artists from Three Continents,'' it unites sublime early-20th-century Baule carved wood portrait masks from Ivory Coast with recent African and African-American mask sculptures, including some of Mr. Hazoume's zany industrial concoctions, which are both tributes to traditional and send-ups of the West's infatuation with African art.
Adventurous as the show is for this institution, it has also been installed in a very non-Western location: that is to say, in an odd space, a pedestrian-mall hallway between galleries of modern art and the Michael C. Rockefeller wing of what was once called primitive art. So it's far from center stage, hard to find, and because of the traffic, a little tough to focus on once you have found it.
But the point isn't where it is placed, but that it's there (and will be through Aug. 21). And once you stop to look, and give it your full attention, and glimpse its implications for the future of a great art and a perpetually lost-and-found art history, it's there in a very big way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Romuald Hazoume's ''Ear Splitting,'' made of brush, speakers and plastic can.
A portrait mask from Ivory Coast at the Metropolitan Museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAAC/PIGOZZI COLLECTION, GENEVA
METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART)(AR1)
Ai Weiwei's ''Colored Vases'' from 2006, above, are Neolithic vessels that have been dipped in industrial paint. Right, Wangechi Mutu's ''Flying Class,'' (2011), a mixed-media collage. Below, the Indian artist Pushpamala N.'s ''Lakshmi,'' a photograph made in collaboration with Clare Arni. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISSON GALLERY, LONDON
SUSANNE VIELMETTER LOS ANGELES PROJECTS AND GLADSTONE GALLERY, NEW YORK
 BOSE PACIA, NEW YORK)(AR24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); HISTORY (89%); ART HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); URBANIZATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT SHOCK (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); COLLEGE ART ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); CHINA (91%); EUROPE (90%); GHANA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



415 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Ukulele Crazy

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
LIKE everybody else, Eddie Vedder was shocked by what the ukulele could do.
It was the late 1990s and Mr. Vedder was in Hawaii, decompressing after a tour with his band, Pearl Jam, when one of those modest, four-stringed instruments caught his eye in an out-of-the-way drugstore. He bought it, sat down on a nearby case of beer, and picked out a few melodies. It felt good.
''And then a couple of tourists came by and threw 50 cents in the ukulele case,'' he said. ''And I thought, 'Wow, there's something going on here.' ''
Mr. Vedder's new solo album, ''Ukulele Songs'' (Monkeywrench), will be released May 31. (''Truth in advertising,'' he says of the title.) But in the years since his first beer-case serenade, the ukulele's fortunes have changed. Not long ago it was an endangered species, usually encountered as cheap exotica or a comic prop. Now it permeates the culture to an extent that it hasn't in more than half a century, turning up in Top 10 pop songs and fashionable indie-rock bands, in television commercials by the hundred and YouTube videos by the thousand. There definitely is something going on here. 
The trend, building for a decade and now reaching a saturation point, is being fueled by a mix of Hollywood directors, corporate advertisers, professional musicians looking for a new sound and amateurs who have discovered how easy the uke is to use. Their aims may be completely different -- selling deodorant and cars versus thrumming in a Brooklyn bar -- but they are united in recognizing that the ukulele offers a folksy, hands-on kind of musical humility that's hard to find in an age in thrall to ''American Idol'' and Guitar Hero.
''It symbolizes everything that the grand polished machine of the music industry is not,'' said Amanda Palmer, a singer formerly with the punk-cabaret group Dresden Dolls.
A few years ago, as a one-off concert gag, Ms. Palmer strummed a uke as she sang Radiohead's ''Creep,'' accompanying herself on a $19 model she had bought the day before. But the performance turned out to be so starkly intense it could not remain a joke. So she began taking a ukulele everywhere, and before long she had recorded a full album: ''Amanda Palmer Performs the Popular Hits of Radiohead on Her Magical Ukulele,'' released last year.
That Ms. Palmer absorbed the basics in a day -- her usual instrument is the piano -- indicates one of the ukulele's great advantages: it's so easy to learn that it's said to be almost impossible to play it badly. Even when slightly off key, it serves as a blank canvas that can accent the character of any voice. And in the right hands, it can strip a song to its skeletal core.
''Nobody picks up the ukulele who is later going to go back and Auto-Tune their vocals,'' said Stephin Merritt of Magnetic Fields, whose 1999 triple album, ''69 Love Songs,'' featured the ukulele extensively and was a landmark in its revival. ''It definitely sounds untrained, and therefore goes with untrained vocal styles.''
Mr. Vedder has a tidy summation of its advantages: ''Less strings, more melody.''
The ukulele craze of the 2000s is only the latest in its long history. A descendant of a four-stringed instrument called the machete that Portuguese laborers brought to Hawaii in the 19th century, the ukulele first made a mainland splash in 1915, at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco. It had waves of mass popularity in the 1920s and the '50s, but by 1968, when Tiny Tim's ''Tip-Toe Thru' the Tulips With Me'' became a novelty hit (No. 17 on the pop charts) -- and condemned the instrument to punch line status for years -- it was already fading.
Its journey back from oblivion began in the mid-1990s, led by a revival among musicians in Hawaii, and since then it has followed parallel paths in independent and corporate culture. In 1999 a spare and wistful version of ''Over the Rainbow'' by Israel Kamakawiwo'ole was used in a commercial for eToys, and sparked a ukulele ad frenzy. The recording has been licensed more than 100 times to sell food, software, paint, bank services, lottery tickets and plenty else, and it shows no sign of slowing down.
It's not hard to see the attraction. The light, carefree strum that has become the instrument's sonic stereotype invokes innocence, sincerity and childlike wonder, as well as nostalgia for a pre-rock 'n' roll era. It doesn't hurt that the sound also conforms to ingrained notions of Hawaii as a consumer-friendly earthly paradise.
Those connotations can be narrative gold for visual storytellers, and for advertisers they offer instant humanization.
''Everyone is sticking the tinkling sound of ukulele under their commercial,'' said Jim Beloff, who wrote ''The Ukulele: A Visual History.'' ''It's shorthand for lightness of tone. It says, 'We're good guys at heart.' ''
At the same time that Hollywood and corporate America began turning to the ukulele, a grass-roots uke revival gathered steam. Local strumming societies emerged around the country, aided by the Internet. And, following the Magnetic Fields' lead, the instrument began popping up throughout the indie-rock world: Mirah, Beirut, Dent May, Noah and the Whale, Buke and Gass, Tune-Yards, even a Neutral Milk Hotel tribute band called Neutral Uke Hotel. From there it spread to the mainstream.
The ukulele is all over Train's 2009 song ''Hey, Soul Sister,'' for example, which reached No. 3, won a Grammy Award and was featured on ''Glee.'' (And let's not forget the Beatles factor: Paul McCartney paid tribute to the ukulele-loving George Harrison at the 2002 ''Concert for George''; four years later Jake Shimabukuro's virtuoso ''While My Guitar Gently Weeps'' became a YouTube hit.)
As Ms. Palmer sees it, the ukulele is the zeitgeist instrument for the D.I.Y. age. ''This is the age of the democratization of music,'' she says. ''Anyone can be a musician. And in a recession, when you have a $20 instrument and there's a big musical renaissance, anyone will want to join in.''
Sales of the instrument, meanwhile, have surged. Sammy Ash, chief operating officer of the Sam Ash music stores, said he sold more ukuleles last December than in the entire previous decade, along with lots of accessories. ''We sell a Metallica ukulele book,'' Mr. Ash said, ''and we sell a lot of them.''
Perhaps some of those Metallica uke skills will be on display at the New York Uke Fest from May 5 to 7, with concerts and workshops including slide guitar technique and lei making (nyukefest.com).
For most of its history the ukulele has tended to be defined by its limitations: it lacks the resonance of the guitar, the bark and twang of the banjo, and one result is a narrow range of performance styles. In some ways that's the ukulele's strength, a simple, effective strum that anyone can learn. But -- aside from the dazzling performances of masters like Mr. Shimabukuro -- is that all there is?
Mr. Vedder's album is halfway between the standard uke style and something more idiosyncratic. Respecting one of the instrument's unwritten rules, he plays antique songs like ''Dream a Little Dream of Me'' and ''Tonight You Belong to Me'' (you may remember Steve Martin and Bernadette Peters singing that one in ''The Jerk''). And he exploits the sentimentality of the instrument for all it's worth, singing lines like ''For every wish upon a star that goes unanswered in the dark/There is a dream I've dreamt about you.'' But on songs like ''Can't Keep,'' he seems to be trying to cram an angst-y Pearl Jam song through the tiny instrument, attacking the strings.
Merrill Garbus of the band Tune-Yards, whose second album, ''Whokill'' (4AD), is scheduled to be released Tuesday, is more experimental. Ms. Garbus creates loops of sound using drums, ukulele and her own voice, weaving the elements together over reggae beats and African-influenced vocal melodies.
You'd be forgiven if you didn't hear the ukulele on a first listen. Through various electronic manipulations she has made it sound like a synthesizer, or a distorted electric guitar, or simply short blasts of noise. But listen carefully and you'll hear the tell-tale plink-plink of a ukulele.
''I definitely made it my goal to make the ukulele sound not like the ukulele,'' Ms. Garbus said. ''I've been amplifying the ukulele through a pick-up and then overdriving it in a really great tube amp, so the texture became not the stereotypical strum of the ukulele. It has these gnarly edges to it.''
Or, as Mr. Vedder explained: ''My inspiration was to wrestle with the thing, to give it something different from the way it's been played before. Can I make this happy little instrument as depressed as I am?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Amanda Palmer, her ukulele and her fans in Los Angeles in 2009. Above, other uke players through the years: Eddie Vedder, left
Tiny Tim, top
and Israel Kamakawiwo'ole. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDSEY BYRNES
DANNY CLINCH
FRANK WILLS/CAMERA PRESS, RETNA)(AR9)
The Magnetic Fields, from left: John Woo, on guitar
Sam Davol, on cello
 and Stephin Merritt, who plays the ukulele. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN COHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%); FILM DIRECTORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%) HAWAII, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



416 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: CHINA'S INFLATION POSES BIG THREAT TO GLOBAL TRADE

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Xu Yan contributed research from Shanghai.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- As the United States and Europe struggle to get their economies rolling again, China is having the opposite problem: figuring out how to keep its revved-up growth engine from generating runaway inflation.
The latest sign that things were moving too fast came on Sunday, when China's central bank ordered the biggest banks to set aside more cash reserves.
The move essentially reduces the amount of money available for loans, and is an attempt to cool down the economy. It follows the government announcement on Friday that China's economy was growing at an annual rate of 9.7 percent, by far the strongest performance by any of the world's biggest economies.
Because China is now the world's second largest economy, after the United States, and because the country has been a leading source of global growth during the last two years, money problems here can reverberate from Wal-Mart to Wall Street and the world beyond. 
High inflation endangers China's status as the low-cost workshop for the world. And if the government's efforts to fight inflation cause the economy to stumble, that will cloud the outlook for international businesses -- whether multinationals like General Electric or copper miners in Chile -- that have been counting on China for growth.
Inside China, inflation also poses a threat to social stability, a particular worry for Beijing, especially since authoritarian governments in North Africa and the Middle East have become the focus of popular uprisings.
''China's inflation is a big concern, and actual numbers are worse than officially reported,'' said Carmen M. Reinhart, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
She says Beijing is engaged in an economic tug of war, trying to encourage sustainable growth while struggling to control inflation.
Food prices are soaring, and the government said on Friday that the consumer price index in March had risen 5.4 percent, its sharpest increase in nearly three years. Hoping to tame inflation, in the last six months Beijing has tightened restrictions on bank lending and raised interest rates on loans (to discourage borrowing) and deposits (to encourage savings).
The decision on Sunday to raise the capital reserve ratio for banks, to 20.5 percent of their cash, was the fourth such increase this year.
The government has also increased agricultural subsidies to curb food prices, and tried to forbid some Chinese companies from raising consumer prices. These efforts stand in contrast to those in the United States, where inflation is low (the underlying annual inflation rate was 1.2 percent last month) and where the debate centers on how much to stimulate the economy given the size of the deficit. Inflation is also running low in Europe, where some countries are imposing harsh austerity measures to pare their budget gaps.
But analysts say the results of this economic management have been mixed. Growth has begun to moderate from its torrid pace of about 10 percent annual growth but inflation has become worse.
For example, housing prices continue to climb even though Beijing has long promised to curb the property market and to spend billions of dollars over the next few years on affordable housing.
The average apartment in central Shanghai now costs more than $500,000. Even in second-tier cities like Chengdu, in central China, the price of a typical home costs about 25 times the average annual income of residents.
Analysts say too much of the country's growth continues to be tied to inflationary spending on real estate development and government investment in roads, railways and other multibillion-dollar infrastructure projects.
In the first quarter of 2011, fixed asset investment -- a broad measure of building activity -- jumped 25 percent from the period a year earlier, and real estate investment soared 37 percent, the government said on Friday.
Some of the inflationary factors, like global commodity and food prices, may be beyond Beijing's ability to influence. Gasoline prices have also jumped sharply, in line with global oil prices. As the world's largest car market, China's demand for fuel is soaring, and gasoline prices are close to $4.50 a gallon, up from $3.82 a gallon in late 2009.
Rising food prices, meanwhile, are showing up in various ways -- including higher prices at fast-food chains, like Master Kong, which in January raised the price of its popular instant noodles by about 10 percent.
China's current supercharged boom began in early 2009, during the global financial crisis, when Beijing moved aggressively to increase growth with a $586 billion stimulus package and record lending by state-run banks.
The loose monetary policy, and big investments in local government projects, did revive economic growth. But even at the time there were already concerns about soaring property prices, undisciplined bank lending and the huge debts being amassed by local governments.
The fear among some experts is that the bubble will eventually burst, leading to a wave of nonperforming loans at the big state-owned Chinese banks, which have been the main financiers of the nation's phenomenal growth dating to the economic reforms in the 1980s.
Some economists have begun to argue that high inflation may be around for some time. Here again, the tug of war is evident.
To encourage the growth of a consumer market that will help meet the Chinese people's demand to share the nation's wealth, Beijing and many municipal governments have required employers to raise wages.
The government has raised minimum wages in the hope of reducing the big income gap between the rich and the poor, and the urban and rural. But higher wages drive up the costs of production, leading to higher prices. Some experts say rising wages may be an unavoidable inflationary force for years to come.
''China is moving into a new era, a new norm,'' said Dong Tao, an economist at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong. ''In the previous decade, inflation was about 1.8 percent a year; in the next decade, it may be closer to 5 percent.''
The implications of such a shift are huge, not just for domestic consumers but perhaps even more so for exports. As wages and production costs rise, coastal factories are demanding higher prices for the goods they ship overseas. That means Americans, Europeans and other buyers will have to pay more for those goods or seek lower-cost suppliers elsewhere. In some cases, retailers are bidding for goods at prices the exporters consider too low.
''I hear that many Chinese exporters are rejecting orders from Wal-Mart and other Western retailers,'' Mr. Tao said. ''I've been covering the Chinese economy for a long time, and I've never heard that before.''
Many analysts say the government is going to have to do even more to slow the economy, through measures like placing additional restrictions on lending and continuing to raise interest rates, the textbook methods of fighting inflation by tightening the nation's money supply.
But the mixed results so far do not inspire widespread confidence. In fact, some experts say that despite the Communist Party's efforts to manage the economy by committee, the absence of a top autonomous central banker -- Beijing has no equivalent of the United States Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke -- means no one actually has a hand on the growth throttle.
''The roots of inflation were laid down after the financial crisis, with the stimulus policy,'' said Zhang Weiying, a professor of economics at Peking University.
After a big stimulus, stamping out inflation is not easy, Professor Zhang said. ''It may take a long time.''
Citizens like Wang Jianren, 56, a retiree in Shanghai, a bustling city of 20 million, say that over the years China has benefited from its rapid economic growth. But like so many here, he complains that inflation is beginning to erode those gains.
''Prices have gone up a lot,'' Mr. Wang said at an indoor vegetable market on Friday. ''Unstable prices make people nervous and make society unstable. In this sense, our generation even has some nostalgia for Mao's era.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A fish market in Sanya in Hainan Province. China reported that its consumer price index had risen 5.4 percent in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOW HWEE YOUNG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A9) CHART: Signs of Overheating: Driven by the resumption of rapid economic growth since the global recession, inflation is a rising concern in China. (Source: Bloomberg) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); BUDGETS (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BANKING IN CHINA (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); COPPER MINING (51%); AGRICULTURE (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHILE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



417 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASKETBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Learning the Hard Way That Bumps and Elbows Dominate in the East

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
Boston
Amar'e Stoudemire and Carmelo Anthony required no ceremonial first elbow from a hostile opponent in white and green to know that this playoff spring was bound to be different from the glorified scrimmages -- comparatively speaking -- they have known out west.
''I've played them before,'' Anthony said of the Celtics, ''but now I'm in the Eastern Conference.'' 
Welcome, Melo and Amar'e, to the heart of the conference where postseason mayhem happens.
Stoudemire, Anthony and Coach Mike D'Antoni came tantalizingly close in their Eastern playoff debut Sunday night. Close enough at TD Garden that the Celtics needed two pictures of inbound perfection in the final 37.3 seconds to pull out an 87-85 victory in Game 1 of their first-round series.
In the end, on a night when a statement that would have resounded coast-to-coast could have been made, all the Knicks were left with was a sense of deflation, Chauncey Billups's strained left knee and the realization that the series will be even more intense than last month's bloody encounter in New York -- times seven, if necessary.
''Our defense joined the playoffs in the second half,'' Celtics Coach Doc Rivers said, noting how the Knicks shot a Western Conference-like 54 percent in the first half and wound up at 42.3 for the game.
Yes, we tend to exaggerate the geographic differences -- one league, same ball, large bodies -- but there are also substantive reasons why the West has long been known as the conference of quiche-eaters. Two in recent history have been Anthony and D'Antoni, both of whom joined the Knicks from respective teams in Denver and Phoenix that were not inclined to defend the basket as they would their wallets.
''If we can keep dancing, running, moving the ball, we'll be all right,'' D'Antoni said before Game 1. As for the Celtics' title-tested playoff physicality, he reasoned, ''If we play the way they play, we'll be in trouble.''
Make no mistake, this game was played the Celtics' way after they rallied from a 12-point halftime deficit to win on Ray Allen's 3-point jumper from deep on the left wing with 11.6 seconds left off a well-run inbounds set.
On the previous possession, trailing by 3 and inbounding from side court with 37.8 seconds left, Allen set a screen that freed Kevin Garnett for a dunk that took all of .5 of a second off the clock.
It was execution, Boston Celtics style, the ball getting exactly where it needed to go. Meanwhile, after doing so many things right, the Knicks went away from Stoudemire -- the best player on the floor -- after he overpowered Garnett on consecutive possessions to give them an 82-78 lead.
As long as D'Antoni is on the subject of dancing, he and the Knicks may want to remember to go with the guy who brought them. If they don't, this series could yet become a referendum on coaching, Xs and Os, and the D'Antoni way that was questioned as a realistic path to the finals even out west.
Still getting acquainted, it would be unfair to hold the Knicks to the Celtics' standard. Of course, these aren't supposed to be the Celtics who claimed the franchise's 17th championship in 2008, who converted the lane into a No LeBron Zone in two of the last three seasons and were a good quarter away from another title in Game 7 of the finals last spring.
But about the time -- halftime of Game 1, to be specific -- that the Boston critics were poised to take General Manager Danny Ainge to the woodshed for trading starting center Kendrick Perkins to Oklahoma City in February, the 32-year-old Jermaine O'Neal rose from among the dormant.
If the less-celebrated O'Neal can give the Celtics the interior defensive presence he provided Sunday night (along with 12 points on 6 for 6 shooting), Perkins will be forgotten by May and Shaquille O'Neal will be free to rest his 39-year-old legs until June.
Jermaine O'Neal's injury history tells us no one should count on that just yet. Ainge, who built the Celtics' 2008 title team from the ground up, may not have the last laugh of this playoff season but he did get the first one.
The Celtics out-rebounded the Knicks, 44-34, and held them to 34 second-half points. After Anthony dropped a 12-point second-quarter on them, they held him to 3 points afterward. Anthony finished with 15 points on 5 of 18 shooting, was whistled for an offensive foul for pushing off on Pierce that returned the ball to the Celtics with 21 seconds left for Allen's final dagger.
To complete his misery, Anthony missed a game-ending three instead of driving the ball for a tie, or taking a look for Stoudemire in the post.
''I think the matchup at the end was whoever was open,'' Stoudemire said in an unwitting indictment of how the end-game possessions undid so many things the Knicks did right.
''Tonight would have been a great opportunity,'' D'Antoni said, editing himself from speaking the truth that it was. ''I didn't like the way a couple of things went towards the end but that's life -- try to get over it.''
Life in the Eastern Conference, he should know. Chances are, there will be no 115-point shootouts against the Celtics and whatever dancing that is done will continue to be down and dirty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (76%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (82%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%)

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



418 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Al Qaeda Stirs Again

BYLINE: By JUAN C. ZARATE. 
Juan C. Zarate, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, was the deputy national security adviser for combating terrorism from 2005 to 2009.

 BODY:
Washington
MANY in the West had taken comfort in Al Qaeda's silence in the wake of the uprisings in the Muslim world this year, as secular, nonviolent protests, led by educated youth focused on redressing longstanding local grievances, showcased democracy's promise and seemed to leave Al Qaeda behind.
Indeed, the pristine spirit of the Arab Spring does represent an existential threat to Al Qaeda's extremist ideology. But Al Qaeda's leaders also know that this is a strategic moment. They are banking on the disillusionment that inevitably follows revolutions to reassert their prominence in the region. And now Al Qaeda is silent no more -- and is taking the rhetorical offensive. 
In recent statements, Ayman al-Zawahri, Osama bin Laden's second-in-command, and Qaeda surrogates have aligned themselves with the protesters in Libya, Egypt and elsewhere, while painting the West as an enemy of the Arab people.
In North Africa, Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb claimed that while protesters flooded the streets of Tunis and Cairo, it had been fighting in the mountains against the same enemies. Anwar al-Awlaki, a Yemeni-American cleric affiliated with Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, declared that in the wake of the revolutions, ''our mujahedeen brothers ... will get a chance to breathe again after three decades of suffocation'' and that ''the great doors of opportunity would open up for the mujahedeen all over the world.''
Mr. Zawahri has denounced democracy, arguing that toppling dictators is insufficient and that ''justice, freedom, and independence'' can be achieved only through ''jihad and resistance until the Islamic regime rises.''
The chaos and disappointment that follow revolutions will inevitably provide many opportunities for Al Qaeda to spread its influence. Demographic pressures, economic woes and corruption will continue to bedevil even the best-run governments in the region. Divisions will beset the protest movements, and vestiges of the old regimes may re-emerge.
Al Qaeda and its allies don't need to win the allegiance of every protester to exert their influence; they have a patient view of history.
Although Washington must avoid tainting organic movements or being perceived as a central protagonist, the United States and its Western allies should not be shy about working with reformers and democrats to shape the region's trajectory -- and ensuring Al Qaeda's irrelevance in the Sunni Arab world, the heart of its supposed constituency.
In countries where autocrats have been toppled (as in Egypt and Tunisia), we must help shape the new political and social environment; in nondemocratic, allied states (like the region's monarchies), we need to accelerate internal reform; and in repressive states (like Iran, Libya and Syria), we should challenge the legitimacy of autocratic regimes and openly assist dissidents and democrats.
This is not about military intervention or the imposition of American-style democracy. It is about using American power and influence to support organic reform movements.
The United States Agency for International Development and advocacy organizations can help civil society groups grow; human rights groups can organize and assist networks of dissidents; and Western women's groups and trade unions could support their counterparts throughout the Middle East. Wealthy philanthropists and entrepreneurs who are part of the Middle Eastern diaspora could make investments and provide economic opportunities for the region's youth, while technology companies interested in new markets could partner with anticorruption groups to aid political mobilization and increase government accountability and transparency. Hollywood and Bollywood writers and producers should lionize the democratic heroes who took to the streets to challenge the orthodoxy of fear.
A focused campaign to shape the course of reform would align our values and interests with the aspirations of the protesters. More important, it would answer the challenge from Al Qaeda to define what happens next and reframe the tired narratives of the past.
In 2005, Mr. Zawahri anticipated this battle for reform and noted that ''demonstrations and speaking out in the streets'' would not be sufficient to achieve freedom in the Muslim world. If we help the protesters succeed, it will not only serve long-term national security interests but also mark the beginning of the end of Al Qaeda.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PATRICK LEGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CORRUPTION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



419 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
BEIJING CHURCH TRIES
TO BUCK BEIJING
The move against Shouwang, a church of well-heeled congregants in Beijing, coincides with the most expansive assault on dissent in China in years, prompted by government fears that the Arab revolts against autocracy could spread to China and undermine the Communist Party's six-decade hold on power. PAGE A4 
HISTORY'S LONG SHADOW
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, having suddenly engaged the country in shooting wars in Libya and Ivory Coast, seems to be harking back to the old days of French African policy when Paris and its army dictated politics in its former colonies and reaped economic rewards. Diplomatic Memo. PAGE A10
National
ADVOCATES OF SCHOOL REFORM
ATTENDED PRIVATE ONES
Those who call themselves education reformers are a diverse group. But there is one thing that characterizes a surprisingly large number of the people who are transforming public schools: they attended private schools. Michael Winerip, On Education. PAGE A13
New York
IN AGE OF DIGITAL MUSIC,
BREATHING LIFE INTO VINYL
In an uninviting industrial stretch of Brooklyn, a small plant recycles vinyl and preserves a fading piece of history. The company, Brooklynphono, has preserved the craft of applying music to vinyl. It is one of only a few places in the city dedicated to this waning profession. PAGE A18
Business
ABRUPT TURN AS FACEBOOK
BATTLES LAWSUIT
In one of the strangest tales to hit Silicon Valley in years, Paul Ceglia, a wood-pellet salesman, last year filed suit saying that a 2003 work-for-hire contract between him and Mark Zuckerberg, then 18, entitled Mr. Ceglia to an 84 percent stake in Facebook. The skepticism and scorn initially heaped on Mr. Ceglia's claims turned to astonishment last week when he added ammunition to his case. PAGE B1
TRUMP RUN WORRIES NBC
The prospect of Donald Trump running for president could disrupt NBC's plans to broadcast future seasons of his show, ''The Apprentice,'' because of concerns that other candidates could request equal airtime. PAGE B4
Arts
A CHASTISED MUSEUM
RETURNS TO LIFE
After the National Academy Museum in Manhattan was sanctioned by the Association of Art Museum Directors for its financial decisions, it became something of a cultural pariah in the art world. But the museum is preparing to reopen its complex in September with a reconstituted board, increased financial oversight and an interior refashioned by a $3.5 million renovation. PAGE C1
Sports
COSTLY MISTAKE PROPELS
RANGERS TO VICTORY
Alex Ovechkin, the Washington Capitals superstar, gave away the puck during a late-game four-on-four situation, then watched in horror as Brandon Dubinsky broke in and scored the tie-breaking goal with 1 minute 39 seconds left to give the Rangers a 3-2 victory at Madison Square Garden. PAGE D2
OPEN FIELD AT THE DERBY
Handicapping the field at the Kentucky Derby has grown even more difficult after another highly regarded colt turned in an awful performance in his last major prep race. PAGE D7
Obituaries
ARTHUR LESSAC, 101
He was a vocal coach who took a holistic approach to training his students, who included singers, athletes and some of the most famous names in film and theater. PAGE A22
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A21
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (88%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); CELEBRITIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); MUSIC (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); ICE HOCKEY (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



420 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: On-the-Go Shopping, Just Inching Along

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
Retailers who once envisioned a vast new market of mobile shoppers eagerly hitting ''buy'' on their cellphones have run headlong into a harsh reality: their customers are all thumbs.
Even as phones get more versatile and sophisticated, many retailers' mobile sites and apps make it difficult to shop. It can be hard to examine items on a small screen, and the pages are often slow to load. Perhaps most frustrating, the process of entering information on a mobile keyboard requires either surgical precision or very tiny fingers.
As a result, retailers report that only about 2 percent of their sales are coming from mobile devices, a number well below the expectations of many e-commerce analysts.
''Everyone was so excited last year, but then sales through mobile haven't been growing as rapidly as we would have thought,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru of Forrester Research, which tracks the technology industry. ''Many retailers haven't even optimized their sites for mobile, and who wants to spend their time pinching screens and mistyping links?'' 
The potential for added revenue from mobile sales remains huge, retailers believe. EBay said that in 2010 it generated almost $2 billion in mobile sales, and is on track to double that this year.
But major retailers like Bed Bath and Beyond, Coach, Dillard's and Ann Taylor still do not have sites designed specifically for mobile phones -- known as optimized sites -- nor do they have apps. By mid-2010, according to the Acquity Group, just 12 percent of the top 500 United States online retailers had sites compatible with mobile browsers, while just 7 percent had apps.
Now retailers are rapidly realizing they no longer have a choice, because customers expect to be able to shop on their phones and want the experience to be as good or better than on a computer. That is what 85 percent of online shoppers told Tealeaf, a software company that monitors buyers' online behavior. So e-commerce companies are racing to figure out the best way to accommodate tiny screens and big fingers so they don't miss out on sales to people standing in the lunch line or riding the train.
And they have been missing out on sales. Shoppers told Tealeaf that mobile shopping was more frustrating than sitting in traffic or visiting the D.M.V., which helps explain why, despite all the interest, people are not yet spending much when shopping on their phones. ComScore, a Web analytics firm, estimates that shoppers spent $1.1 billion via their phones in the last three months of 2010, a sharp increase over the course of the year, but still just 2.6 percent of total e-commerce sales for that period.
Bailey Vincent Clark, a 24-year-old writer and mother in Staunton, Va., shops on her phone for convenience, regularly buying Bare Escentuals makeup on Sephora's optimized mobile site because she can do it from anywhere, and quickly.
Still, she said, ''shopping on my phone can be extremely frustrating, because most Web sites aren't streamlined for cell usage, leaving me squinting and pinching at the screen, struggling to enter information.''
The tepid response to mobile shopping has retailers pursuing a variety of improvements to compensate for a phone's limitations, with things like voice search, one-touch checkout and simplified mobile sites.
Alibris, the book seller, had held off introducing a mobile site until late last year, when it decided mobile visits to its regular Web site were rising so much that it had no choice.
''When you transform a giant PC screen onto a little device, you have to decide what not to bring along,'' said Jeanie Bunker, general manager of Alibris Retail. ''So we basically stripped out all the things we thought were not relevant to the mobile user.''
For instance, it removed the rare-books tab, assuming that someone spending hundreds on a book would want to do extensive research. And since students looking for used textbooks were typing in ISBN numbers as they stood in college bookstores, Alibris included an ISBN search box on the mobile home page.
Many retailers point to Amazon's apps as worthy models. Unlike most retailers, Amazon started developing mobile Web sites in 2006, before the first iPhone was available. To minimize typing, Amazon offers bar code scanning, voice search and automatic fill-in on typed searches. Type ''Har,'' for instance, and it displays Harry Potter books.
Another benefit of Amazon's app: most of its customers are existing online customers, and once they sign on to the mobile app, they don't need to re-enter billing and shipping information.
That kind of convenience is crucial to a mobile site's appeal, because getting customers through checkout quickly is a major challenge. Many sites that are not optimized require page after page of confirmations about shipping methods or credit cards, even for an existing customer who has logged in.
''Entering a credit card and a billing address and all that sort of stuff is almost impossible on an iPhone device,'' said Laura Chambers, senior director of PayPal Mobile. ''It's a really clunky experience.''
Mobile shoppers are especially fickle and willing to abandon a purchase, said William Rosen, president and chief creative officer for North America for Arc Worldwide, a firm that recently did a study of mobile shopping.
''With mobile technology, you can lose a shopper very quickly,'' he said. ''Little misses and dead ends often result in a different transaction, a different retailer and a different end product than if they had been able to complete the transaction as they desired.''
Companies forced to get people through checkout quickly, like auction and flash-sale sites -- ones briefly offering discounts -- have figured out shortcuts.
At Rue La La, a flash-sale site for fashion and accessories, more than 12 percent of sales came from mobile devices in the first quarter, up from less than 2 percent a year ago. Rue La La requires that customers log in before they access the site or app, so they can purchase and ship something with one touch.
''Part of it is psychological,'' said Steve Davis, president of Rue La La, ''moving the log-in to the front of your experience, instead of interrupting while you're in the checkout lane.''
Some retailers nevertheless concede that some experiences are simply better on a computer.
Hipmunk, a site for searching flights and hotels, made sure its iPhone app took into account a phone's limitations. Search results on the phone are displayed in short lists for readability, and the app magnifies those results, rather than loading a new page, which can take longer.
Hipmunk also figured that the best way to deal with the biggest nuisance in mobile commerce -- entering a credit card number to check out -- was to avoid the mobile part. So Hipmunk offers two choices that allow buyers to pay later on a computer, instead of on the phone; it will e-mail a link, or generate a secret password to enter on the computer.
''Fundamentally, if you have to enter in a credit card number, there's no pleasant way on your phone,'' said Adam Goldstein, Hipmunk's chief. ''It is extremely frustrating, which is why out of the three options we give you to book, two are not on your phone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Rue La La in Boston, its mobile team, Peter Fein, left, Joshua Wilson and Stephanie Brocoum. Right, its site. (B1)
 Rue La La's Boutique page on an iPad.With limited-time discounts, shoppers must act quickly. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (88%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (79%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (79%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); MICROBROWSERS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (54%); ACQUITY GROUP LTD (54%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (54%); AQ (NYSE MKT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (54%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (54%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



421 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: The French Ban on Wearing a Full-Face Veil in Public

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''French Legislation Takes Effect Banning Full-Face Coverings'' (news article, April 12):
What do the French and the Taliban have in common? They both force women to dress a certain way. 
Restricting the right to wear a niqab, or any other type of nonrevealing clothing, infringes on freedoms of religion, conscience and thought. These are the same freedoms that some terrorist organizations restrict. The anti-niqab law is an infraction of the right of Muslim women to observe their religious beliefs.
I, as a Muslim American, appreciate America's tradition of proudly protecting and promoting the right to practice and display one's religion however one chooses. It makes me proud to be an American.
AZHAR HUSSAIN Plano, Tex., April 12, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''Government-Enforced Bigotry in France'' (editorial, April 12): Communities that require women to cloak themselves in full-face veils have institutionalized discrimination and handicapped half of their population.
Unfortunately, the diminished status of Muslim women is not a new phenomenon. A number of Islamic reformers have described the adverse political and economic consequences of discriminatory policy, in addition to its moral reprehensibility.
About 130 years ago the Turkish writer Namik Kemal argued that the status of women, more than other explanations, helped elucidate the productivity gap between Islamic nations and their Western counterparts. Denied education and career opportunity, women, and often the children they raise, are less able to contribute to social and economic advancement and become productive members of society.
The French ban on the full-face veil is a first step in helping some of the most powerless women participate more fully as equal citizens.
BRIAN FUCHS Halamish, West Bank, April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); TALIBAN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); WOMEN (77%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (76%); WRITERS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



422 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: A Warner Merger With Potential

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
A sale of Warner Music would be only an opening act. The company, whose artists include Bruno Mars and Metallica, has attracted a surprising number of suitors. But that is primarily because the show that investors really want to see is a Warner combination with EMI Group.
The less glamorous music publishing side still sets the pace for any deal. This income stream from songs played on the radio or performed live has been steady for Warner, with the division's operating profit before depreciation and amortization declining a mere 6 percent in the fiscal year that ended in September 2010, compared with the fiscal year in 2008. The recording side, which includes the Atlantic and Warner labels, has suffered far worse over the same span, with those earnings tumbling nearly a third. 
Potential buyers like Ron Burkle and Len Blavatnik may have reason for optimism about the business of discovering and developing rock stars. The increasing use of smartphones and the development of cloud-based song libraries are creating fresh hopes of reinvigorating the legal distribution of music.
But everyone is mainly eager for a merger of Warner and EMI. The first attempt at a deal was in 2000, when European watchdogs shot down the idea. But the business has changed substantially and Warner's next owner is likely to try uniting the company with the industry's overleveraged No. 4 player seized earlier this year from Guy Hands, the buyout baron, by its lender, Citigroup.
Not only could the best executives and musical acts be cherry-picked from the two firms, but nearly the whole merged recording unit could be run with just one side's cost base.
The last time these two tried a merger in 2006, annual savings were estimated at some $300 million. Assuming that still holds true, the estimated $2.3 billion present value of these savings would go a long way toward paying for any deal.
Warner and EMI are each worth roughly $3 billion. Selling one of the two publishing businesses to sidestep regulatory questions would probably fetch at least $2 billion. Despite the industry's troubles, new investors could still enjoy a good return.
An Untapped Mine
Facebook's success may seem sui generis. But the social network's disputed paternity and escalating value -- $85 billion at last estimate -- is creating a familiar commotion. People are claiming a share of Mark Zuckerberg's creation. The story bears striking parallels with past bonanzas, especially Nevada's silver rush 150 years ago.
The Comstock Lode was the Silicon Valley of its day. The market value of companies excavating its wealth was about $40 million by 1865, about half the value of the real estate and personal property in San Francisco at the time. That would equate to about $60 billion in today's economy. The system that sprang up around the mines included engineers developing new technologies to extract silver from stone. Hundreds of companies were formed. A few captured nearly all the spoils.
Just as today, the combination of uncertain ownership and tremendous lucre invited controversy. The mining company Gould & Curry, for example, attracted 15 lawsuits in one year. Such legal claims consumed an estimated 20 percent of the revenue generated by the Comstock Lode in its early years of operation.
The outcomes resemble Facebook's travails. Early and important figures -- Eduardo Saverin at Facebook or James Finney at Comstock -- were celebrated as genial figures, but pushed out for a fraction of the eventual riches. And like the Winklevoss twins suing Facebook today, others who claimed to own Comstock Lode land but who didn't do any heavy lifting were given a chunk of cash and told to go away.
Outsiders can't tell whether today's claimants are victims or opportunists. The latest is Paul Ceglia, a wood-pellet salesman charged with fraud last year, who says he bought half of Facebook in 2003. Some mine owners of yore took money from investors before telling them a rich shaft was worthless. Other plaintiffs submitted fabricated evidence against wealthy miners.
The parallels do have their limits. Mr. Zuckerberg isn't like Henry Comstock, for whom the lode was named. Mr. Comstock finagled his way in, using $50 and a blind horse. Mr. Zuckerberg actually built Facebook. That's significant. An untapped mine with rich silver deposits is worth a fortune. An undeveloped social network is just a good idea. -- JEFFREY GOLDFARB and ROBERT CYRAN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bruno Mars, one of Warner Music's artists, at Madison Square Garden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD REVENUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MERGERS (90%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); LEGAL PATERNITY (50%)

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (92%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: LEONARD BLAVATNIK (58%); RON BURKLE (53%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) NEVADA, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



423 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Oil Minister Says Market Is Oversupplied

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia's oil minister said on Sunday that the country had reduced output by 800,000 barrels a day in March, sending the strongest signal yet that the OPEC oil cartel would not act to quell soaring prices.
Consumers have urged OPEC's member countries to pump more crude to put a price cap on oil, which surged to more than $127 a barrel this month, its highest level in two and a half years amid unrest in North Africa and the Middle East. 
Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi minister, cited concerns about oversupply and said rocketing crude prices were out of the hands of OPEC.
''The market is overbalanced,'' said Mr. Naimi, who put Saudi oil production at 9.125 million barrels a day in February and 8.292 million barrels a day in March.
''In April, we don't know yet, probably a little higher than March,'' Mr. Naimi told reporters on Sunday. ''The reason I gave you these numbers is to show you that the market is oversupplied.''
Oil ministers from Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates have echoed Mr. Naimi's concerns.
OPEC appears unconvinced that there is a need for more oil despite the civil war that has cut Libyan output and expectations that Japanese demand will rise as it scrambles to rebuild its earthquake-shattered electricity grid.
''These statements underscore the breadth of the security premium currently in prices,'' said John Kilduff of the energy hedge fund Again Capital. ''Overall supplies are sufficient. As we've seen in the past, however, a well-supplied market is not always a barrier to very high prices.''
Mr. Naimi, who has previously spoken of $70 to $80 a barrel as a desirable range for crude, declined to comment on the price.
Oil prices fell early last week on concern that demand might be eroding under pressure from high prices, but rebounded on Friday after encouraging economic data from the United States.
Prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange closed at $109.66 a barrel on Friday, up $1.55. Gasoline prices are topping $4 a gallon in parts of the United States.
Nobuo Tanaka, head of the International Energy Agency, which represents oil importers' interests, stopped short of saying that OPEC needed to raise output, but suggested the group should be more flexible in its thinking about supply.
''The market is getting tighter,'' Mr. Tanaka told reporters, ''and if it is tighter the price may go up, which may have a negative impact to economic growth.''
OPEC last formally discussed output policy in December and is not scheduled to do so again until June. Members have ruled out holding an emergency meeting.
Unrest in North Africa and the Middle East has left Saudi Arabia and other nations in the region nervous about political instability and of a sharp fall in oil prices that could lead to a fiscal crisis while people are restive.
The kingdom promised nearly $93 billion in handouts to its citizens in the wake of the wave of unrest that has swept the Arab world this year, making a sharp fall in oil prices a major risk for its budget.
Saudi Arabia and some other OPEC members unilaterally increased oil production after the uprising in March against the Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi, which shut down the bulk of the North African OPEC member's oil industry.
But weak demand for the additional production appears to have prompted the reduction in output.
Mr. Naimi said Saudi Arabia had sold two million barrels of a special blend of crude that tried to replicate the high quality of the lost Libyan production. Demand for the blend has been tepid, according to oil traders.
Kuwait may also have reduced output from the 2.42 million barrels a day that analysts and oil traders estimated it pumped in March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (86%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



424 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'WONDERLAND'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: There's No Place Like Queens

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
If only little Alice, dozing away on the riverbank before sliding down the rabbit hole, had an inkling of the deeper import of the zany adventures that were to come. All those talking animals, querulous playing cards and animated chess pieces were not just peculiar, slightly menacing playmates, according to the new Broadway musical ''Wonderland.''
No indeed. They were all potential gurus pointing the way to self-realization, each and every one intimating a message of empowerment. Had little Alice capitalized on all the wisdom they imparted, she might well have grown even taller than she did after drinking that elixir in the topsy-turvy world under the earth. She might have come to tower above the rest of us mortals as only -- oh my heavens! -- Oprah Winfrey does today. 
That is the clear message of this peppily inspirational musical, which opened Sunday night at the Marquis Theater. Inspired by Lewis Carroll's classic children's books about a girl's odyssey through her dream-disordered imagination, the show features generic Broadway pop music by Frank Wildhorn (''Jekyll & Hyde''), workmanlike lyrics by Jack Murphy, and a book by Mr. Murphy and the director, Gregory Boyd. ''Wonderland'' transforms Alice's surreal wanderings into a contemporary parable about reconnecting with your inner child and other watery truisms of the self-help industrial complex.
The model here appears to be the Broadway behemoth ''Wicked,'' which recast L. Frank Baum's ''Wonderful Wizard of Oz'' as a moral-dispensing tale of exceptionally gifted young women (hitherto known as witches) finding common ground in girl power. Unfortunately ''Wonderland'' reminded me even more strongly of another latter-day iteration of the Baum story, the bloated 1978 movie version of the Broadway musical ''The Wiz.''
You'll recall -- or maybe you won't -- that in the film the teenage Dorothy of the stage version became a grown-up, put-upon New York schoolteacher played by a saucer-eyed Diana Ross. The adventurer in ''Wonderland'' is also a harassed New York schoolteacher, Alice (the capable Janet Dacal), who aspires to write children's books. Recently separated from her unemployed husband, she has moved to the ''kingdom of Queens'' with her daughter Chloe (Carly Rose Sonenclar, a good actress and an almost preternaturally skilled singer).
Dozing one night in Chloe's bed, Alice is spirited away to an alternate universe in which the fanciful figures of the Carroll books are transformed into groovy, multiethnic contemporary equivalents. The Caterpillar with his hookah is a suave black charmer (E. Clayton Cornelious) who recommends a dose of self-reflection in a silky R&B song. The Cheshire Cat is a grinning Latino called El Gato (Jose Llana) accessorized with a glittery pimp-mobile (''My friends call me Che,'' he purrs), urging Alice to ''Go With the Flow'' in a Santana-esque number. The White Knight (Darren Ritchie) becomes a square-jawed Disney-prince type who leads his fellow polo-playing cuties in a boy-band song celebrating his own heroism.
They team up to support Dorothy -- um, I mean Alice -- as she cracks mother-in-law jokes and tries with increasing exasperation to find her way home, a preoccupation that didn't seem particularly urgent to the polite, spirited youngster in Carroll's original. Scheming to thwart Alice's plans are the local villains, the Queen of Hearts (Karen Mason), whose underwhelming razzle-dazzle showstopper is inevitably entitled ''Off With Their Heads''; and the Mad Hatter (Kate Shindle), a glowering vamp with dominatrix tendencies, who plots to overthrow the queen using little Chloe as a pawn in her machinations. (Even the Mad Hatter has a bent for analyzing Alice's dissatisfactions: ''A little girl grows up with a sense of wonder and hope,'' she lectures, ''but quickly becomes a woman who forgets all the dreams that reside in her head... .'')
Mr. Boyd and Mr. Murphy's book displays flashes of fresh humor capitalizing on the novelty of an adult Alice at the center of the story. Picking up the bottle of liquid enticingly placed in front of her, Alice notes that the inscription reads: ''Drink me. Responsibly.'' There are the Broadway in-jokes necessary in any musical hoping for a soupcon of hipness, in this case quotations from ''The Music Man,'' ''South Pacific'' and ''Gypsy'' (rather a strange trinity, come to think of it).
But the desire to create a traditional narrative arc from the unruly dreamscape of Carroll's original results in a convoluted story line pitting the good guys against the bad. Most of the second act consists of a drawn-out battle over Alice and Chloe's fates, with an odd little timeout in which Alice encounters Carroll himself, coyly referred to only as the Victorian Gentleman (Mr. Ritchie).
Mr. Wildhorn's absence from Broadway since his 2004 adaptation of ''Dracula'' has not exactly occasioned widespread hand-wringing, and his competent rendering of various pop styles in ''Wonderland'' probably won't win him a host of converts. Mr. Murphy's lyrics are of a matching blandness, with Alice's earnest ballads of self-discovery amply stocked in cliche. (''I remember every moment when my heart was young and free,'' she sings upon meeting -- literally -- her inner child, ''and to my surprise I look through your eyes and once more I can see.'')
Although the silvered prosceniums suggesting an endless series of antique mirrors are a clever choice, the sets by Neil Patel, amply supplemented by Sven Ortel's video projections, lack any transporting fairy-tale magic or even simple stylistic coherence. (It probably wasn't a good idea to project animated images from the glorious Tenniel illustrations onto the curtain before the show begins.) The costumes, by Susan Hilferty, are similarly a riotous grab bag mixing nods to the traditional -- the Queen of Hearts wears a playing-card frock as it might have been coutured up by John Galliano -- and twisted variations on contemporary styles.
It might be impossible to recreate onstage the particular magic of Carroll's writing, which captures as no other literary work does the texture of dreams. The mechanics of live theater cannot easily replicate the swirling imagery that evaporates as soon as it materializes. (Film, animated or otherwise, does it better.) And much of the books' dizzying charm resides in the inversions of logic and literal sense based on the sound and sight of words themselves.
But Alice's adventures are perhaps most subversively appealing for their blithe indifference to the kind of tidy moralizing that had been a staple of Victorian children's literature. ''Wonderland'' thoroughly nullifies this aspect. Instead of transporting us back to an anarchic childhood world where right and wrong are just words like any others, to be tossed about at merry whim, the show drearily suggests that even grown-ups have to keep doing their homework, working doggedly toward self-improvement day after endless day.
WONDERLAND
Book by Gregory Boyd and Jack Murphy; lyrics by Mr. Murphy; music by Frank Wildhorn; directed by Mr. Boyd; choreography by Marguerite Derricks; musical direction and incidental and dance music arrangements by Jason Howland; sets by Neil Patel; costumes by Susan Hilferty; lighting by Paul Gallo; projections and video by Sven Ortel; sound by Peter Hylenski; hair and wig design by Tom Watson; musical supervision and orchestrations by Kim Scharnberg; vocal music arrangements by Ron Melrose and Mr. Howland; fight director, Rick Sordelet; associate director, Kenneth Ferrone; associate choreographer, Michelle Elkin; music coordinator, David Lai; technical supervisor, Chris Smith/Smitty; production stage manager, David O'Brien; general manager, the Charlotte Wilcox Company; associate producers, Judy Joseph, Stageventures 2010 Limited Partnership; executive producer, William Franzblau. Presented by David A. Straz Center for the Performing Arts, Judy Lisi, president; Franzblau Media; Nederlander Presentations; the Knights of Tampa Bay, David Scher Hinks Shimberg; Michael Speyer and Bernie Abrams; Jay Harris; Larry and Kay Payton; June and Tom Simpson; Independent Presenters Network and Sonny Everett Productions. At the Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 46th Street; (877) 250-2929; ticketmaster.com. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes.
WITH: Janet Dacal (Alice), Darren Ritchie (Jack the White Knight/Victorian Gentleman), E. Clayton Cornelious (Caterpillar), Jose Llana (El Gato), Karen Mason (Edwina/Queen of Hearts), Kate Shindle (Mad Hatter), Carly Rose Sonenclar (Chloe), Edward Staudenmayer (White Rabbit) and Danny Stiles (Morris the March Hare).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wonderland: Janet Dacal, center, plays Alice in this musical inspired by Lewis Carroll's classic children's books, at the Marquis Theater. (C1)
 Janet Dacal, left, plays Alice, and Jose Llana is El Gato, a variation on the Cheshire Cat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM (77%); POP & ROCK (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); THEATER (57%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

TITLE: Wonderland (Play)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



425 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: After Violent Storms, A Widespread Trail Of Death and Damage

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Kim Severson reported from Atlanta. Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta, Tarini Parti from Raleigh, N.C., and Joseph Berger from New York.

 BODY:
The terrified look in one of her employee's eyes was the first clue Terri Rodriguez had that something was terribly wrong Saturday afternoon.
The worker had been washing kitchen equipment behind Golden Corral, a popular restaurant in Sanford, N.C., when he spotted a giant black funnel cloud bearing down. It was one of more than 90 tornadoes -- what one meteorologist described as a ''family'' of them -- that hit the state on Saturday.
He ran to Ms. Rodriguez, who walked out the back door. She dodged a piece of flying wood, and then she saw it: a dark funnel cloud thick with wood and metal only a couple of blocks away.
About 140 people were eating in her restaurant, many of them in front of the thick plate-glass windows that run the length of the place. 
''All I could think is that I have to get them away from the glass because I knew it would just cut them in half,'' she said in an interview on Sunday. ''I thought, where can I put them? Then I yelled: 'Tornado! Everyone to my kitchen!' ''
People packed into the meat cooler and behind the stoves. Others jammed into the restrooms. Then they waited. After five minutes, Ms. Rodriguez said, the darkness lifted and she peeked out the back door.
The tornado, she said, had bounced up, skipped the Golden Corral and made a sharp turn, setting down on top of a Lowe's Home Improvement Center a few hundred feet away.
''I could see the roof was just gone and all of the Lowe's stuff flying up in the air,'' Ms. Rodriguez said.
The Lowe's store in Sanford, a town of about 29,000 in the center of the state, was essentially demolished. But an estimated 70 customers were saved when another fast-thinking manager herded customers and his staff into a windowless storeroom.
The storm killed at least two people in the Sanford area and injured several more, according to Sheriff Tracy Carter of Lee County.
A string of tornadoes that began Thursday night in Oklahoma left of a trail of death and millions of dollars in damage from the middle of America to the Eastern Seaboard. But they reached their zenith on Saturday night in North Carolina.
Officials said the storms killed at least 43 people and injured hundreds more. No damage estimates were immediately available, but they will most certainly run into the tens of millions of dollars.
Although April and May are the worst time for tornadoes in the South, this storm system, which had its roots in the Pacific Ocean, was unusual for its size and duration, officials said. The storm would calm itself a bit at night and then gain renewed strength with the day's heat, said Greg Carbin, warning coordination meteorologist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
It brought flash floods, tornadoes and thunderstorms laced with giant balls of hail to Oklahoma on Thursday, killing two elderly sisters, before moving east through Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, North and South Carolina and Virginia.
The effects from the storms could be felt as far as Pennsylvania, New Jersey and the New York City area on Saturday night, when furious wind-driven rains covered roadways and produced isolated flooding.
When the system hit North Carolina on Saturday night, it spawned a record 92 tornadoes in the state, killing at least 22 people and injuring more than 80 others. At least 14 deaths were in Bertie and Hertford Counties, in a rural northeast corner of the state where cotton, tobacco, peanuts, corn and soybeans anchor the economy.
''Normally the storms that hit here are pretty severe but smaller in size,'' said Cal Bryant, the editor of The Roanoke-Chowan News Herald, which serves a part of North Carolina that was most severely hit. ''Now they are thinking it may have been one big tornado. They're trying to find where it stopped, and they haven't got there yet.''
Mr. Bryant, who spent Sunday with survivors in Bertie County, said rescue crews were going house to house looking for dead or injured residents and assessing damage. At least 60 houses, some of them mobile homes, were destroyed, and he expected the count to go higher.
Scott Sharp, a meteorologist for the National Weather Service office in Raleigh, said the devastation was due to ''a family of tornadoes'' that were part of the same thunderstorm system, with one rotating updraft cropping up after another had dissipated.
Still, the storm was not as bad as something meteorologists call ''Super Tuesday,'' when a string of tornadoes in February 2008 claimed 56 lives, said Mr. Carbin of NOAA. But it was unusual in that all of the weather stemmed from one huge storm.
But for many of the states that lay in the path of this system, including North Carolina, which had not seen such severe weather since the early 1990s, it was a storm that will most likely takes months to recover from.
Gov. Bev Perdue of North Carolina, like governors in three other Southern states, declared a state of emergency on Sunday. Twelve teams from the Federal Emergency Management Agency were expected to arrive in North Carolina by Monday. The agency is also sending teams to Mississippi and Alabama, said Rachel Racusen, a FEMA spokeswoman.
In Raleigh, a city of 400,000, major avenues downtown were blocked by fallen trees. Buildings were flattened in at least eight areas of Wake County, said Sarah Williamson-Baker, a spokeswoman for the county.
Three siblings, who ranged in age from 2 to 5, were killed in a mobile home park in Raleigh when a tree fell on their home. The three were in a bathtub, according to a local news report.
The tornado seemed to make a direct cut through the area, Ms. Williamson-Baker said.
''There's many places where there's little left of buildings, and then in other places nearby, there's almost no damage,'' she said.
Elizabeth Strauch, 41, lives in the Cranberry Ridge subdivision in Wilson, N.C. Her house was destroyed. When she heard the tornado, she ran to a closet with her cat and some personal belongings.
''What I thought was a tree falling down on the house was my roof falling down and the attic falling through,'' she said. She opened the door of her closet, pushed back the debris and ran to her neighbors. The whole thing lasted about three minutes.
''I thought I was going to die,'' Ms. Strauch said. ''I was hysterical.''
Near Raleigh, dormitories and classrooms at Shaw University, the oldest historically black university in the South, were so damaged that classes were canceled for the rest of the semester.
''After an assessment by experts, I will determine if summer school can be held on campus or will be available only online,'' the university president, Irma McClaurin, said in a statement. ''I think we are blessed that despite tremendous structural damages to dormitories and the Willie Gary Student Union that not one single person (student, faculty, staff or community members) was injured. We can all give thanks for that.''
In Sanford, many were grateful, too. John Douglas, 42, a contractor, was inside a tractor supply store when the tornado ripped the roof from the building.
He and a friend jumped on top of his daughter Abby, 9, as part of the ceiling fell on top of them. He suffered a few minor scrapes and bruises, but they all walked away otherwise unhurt.
''Everything was flying around inside the store. You could see the sky through the roof,'' Mr. Douglas said. ''We just prayed to the Lord to help us through this.''
Around the parts of the Southern states that were hardest hit, volunteers began organizing food drives and fund-raisers. Many people were connecting through Facebook and Twitter, and others were simply showing up to see how they might help.
In Sanford, the Salvation Army thrift store opened its doors at 3 p.m. and two hours later had already accepted about 400 bags of clothes and household goods, said Derek Oley, 29, the manager. They will start supplying food to people Monday.
''This community is just so awesome right now,'' Mr. Oley said. ''People are just coming out from everywhere to help out.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A map on Monday with an article about a string of tornadoes that caused death and destruction from the middle of America to the Eastern Seaboard misidentified a county in eastern North Carolina. It is Pitt County, not Bertie County.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stony Brook North mobile home park in Raleigh, N.C., on Sunday. Three siblings, who ranged in age from 2 to 5, were killed in the park on Saturday night when a tree fell on their home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAKAAKI IWABU/NEWS & OBSERVER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Thursday: 23 tornado sightings in 5 states: Seventeen of the 23 tornadoes on Thursday were reported in Oklahoma. At least two residents of Tushka, in Atoka County, shown above, died when a twister touched down there. Most residents made it to shelters before the storms hit.
Friday: 113 sightings in 6 states: Alabama and Mississippi had the most tornadoes and damage, with 101 of the 113 sightings in those two states alone. At least seven people were killed in Alabama, and more than a dozen counties reported damage, including Autauga County, above.
Saturday: 107 sightings in 4 states: There were 92 tornadoes reported across North Carolina on Saturday night. At least 14 people were killed and 50 seriously injured in Bertie, N.C., according to state officials. Major avenues in downtown Raleigh were blocked by fallen trees. A Lowe's store, in Lee County, above, was damaged extensively. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REX C. CURRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
AMANDA SOWARDS/THE MONTGOMERY ADVERTISER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
THOMAS BABB/THE NEWS & OBSERVER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12)
The Lowe's Home Improvement Center in Sanford, N.C., after Saturday's tornado. An estimated 70 customers were saved when a manager herded them and his staff into a windowless storeroom.
 Nathaniel Ramey comforted Megan Hurst outside her grandmother's house in Askewville, N.C., on Sunday. Dozens of deadly tornadoes hit the state on Saturday, causing widespread damage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM R. BOUNDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) MAP: Tornadoes: 3 Days, 14 States: More than 240 tornadoes have been reported since Thursday, including a ''family'' of 92 tornadoes that killed 22 people and left 84,000 without power in North Carolina on Saturday. Tornado activity has been heavier this year than last, according to the National Weather Service. (Source: National Weather Service) (MAP BY JOE BURGESS AND KEVIN QUEALY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); TORNADOES (90%); HOME CENTERS (89%); WEATHER (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); METEOROLOGY (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (61%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (82%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (82%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



426 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: A Conservatism That Is Not Just Economic

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
In the throes of New Jersey's financial crisis, Gov. Chris Christie vaulted into office as a strict fiscal conservative. In his first year in the job, he won national attention as a tough-talking manager whose budget-slashing, union-bashing ways seemed to be all about the money.
The National Review and Rush Limbaugh quoted admiringly from a document far from the usual political red meat: Mr. Christie's 2010 budget address.
But the last few months have revealed a governor whose conservatism is not just economic. In his statements, budget moves and quiet administrative actions, Mr. Christie has taken strong positions on abortion and medical marijuana; while his positions on these issues had been clear, he had said or done little about them. And he has spoken up on matters he had previously not addressed at all, like family planning and global warming -- suggesting that human activity may not be causing the planet to heat up. 
''He is absolutely the most conservative governor we have had in the modern history of the state,'' said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New Jersey Politics at Rider University. ''Christie has revealed a number of views that we didn't see before, or barely saw, on things that were not on anybody's radar screen in the 2009 election or his first months in office.''
Other recent Republican governors of New Jersey, like Christine Todd Whitman and Thomas H. Kean, have been all-around moderates -- like many voters in the Democratic-leaning state -- and Mr. Christie's new outspokenness could complicate his political future there.
But his positions could also broaden his appeal to the fiscal conservatives and union opponents who have already given Mr. Christie a national following, and to social conservatives who have had less reason to notice him.
The governor's growing discussion of nonfiscal issues has fueled talk of him as a presidential contender -- though he vows in every imaginable way not to run in 2012 -- and fed speculation that he is playing to the conservatives around the country who dominate Republican primaries and caucuses.
''I think that that's part of it, that there's some goal beyond New Jersey,'' even if it is not the White House, said Jennifer E. Duffy, senior editor of The Cook Political Report. ''It gives him a more national audience for any issues he wants to raise, and it certainly could help with fund-raising.''
The governor's chief political strategist, Michael DuHaime, said any apparent shift in emphasis was not about political calculation, but more about the questions that come Mr. Christie's way.
''He is who he is, and he's been clear about what his issue positions were on anything that anybody asked him about,'' Mr. DuHaime said. He warned against applying easy labels to Mr. Christie, saying, ''He's no doubt conservative on the issues, but he's far from dogmatic.''
Mr. Christie had little political experience to define him when he ran for governor in 2009; he had been a lawyer and a lobbyist, a one-term county freeholder and the United States attorney for New Jersey.
During the campaign, the state's deep financial trouble took center stage. Mr. Christie focused on the state's high taxes, played down his opposition to abortion, and aligned himself with President Obama on subjects like education reform and promoting wind and solar energy. And the new governor was a blank slate on some issues, like global warming.
In office, he eliminated the state's Office of Climate Change, cut funding for clean energy programs and eliminated New Jersey's share of financing for a 10-state greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program that is anathema to many conservatives.
But those were billed as pragmatic, budgetary moves. In November, Mr. Christie went further: He revealed that he was skeptical that human activity was responsible for climate change. Responding to a question at a public forum in Toms River, he said, ''I think we're going to need more science to prove something one way or the other.''
On March 11, he pulled New Jersey out of a multistate lawsuit aimed at curbing greenhouse emissions from power plants, and on March 24, he said he might also withdraw entirely from the cap-and-trade program.
Mr. Christie's opposition to abortion has long been a matter of public record, but he has barely mentioned it unless asked. Then, in January, the governor addressed a large anti-abortion rally in Trenton, saying, ''This is an issue whose time has come.''
In September, he vetoed state support for family planning clinics, a move strongly backed by anti-abortion groups because some of the clinics performed abortions. In February, after the Democratic-controlled Legislature approved a much smaller appropriation for family planning, backed mostly by federal dollars, he vetoed that, too. Mr. Christie also applied for federal money for abstinence-only education, something that the Democrat he unseated, Gov. Jon S. Corzine, had not done.
In February, Mr. Christie made a splash in the national news media with a speech to the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, weighing in on issues that are not the usual fare for governors, like changes in Medicare and raising the minimum age for Social Security. He derided President Obama's talk of high-speed rail and electric cars as ''the candy of American politics.''
Mr. Christie has not added New Jersey to the states that are suing to overturn the federal health care overhaul, but this year he has become more critical of the law.
On some issues, Mr. Christie's general views have long been known, but only with time has it become clear how far he is willing to push them.
He opposed a medical marijuana law passed under Mr. Corzine, and once in office, he delayed its implementation. Then Mr. Christie used regulations to restrict the law's application, including an announcement last month that growing and dispensing the drug would be limited to six locations.
Steven M. Lonegan, who opposed Mr. Christie in the 2009 Republican primary, said the governor's apparent conservatism was more show than substance.
''The multistate greenhouse lawsuit was a moot point because it wasn't going anywhere,'' said Mr. Lonegan, president of the New Jersey chapter of the conservative group Americans for Prosperity. ''He hasn't tried to block Obama's health care law, he hasn't come out in favor of repealing the cap-and-trade program or Roe v. Wade, and he hasn't stopped the practice of state borrowing without voter approval.''
The governor has parted company with much of the right on immigration when he is asked about it, but he rarely addresses the issue. In 2008, as a federal prosecutor, he declared that ''being in this country without proper documentation is not a crime'' -- a comment that drew fire from conservatives. In an interview last year with Politico, he voiced reservations about Arizona's new immigration law, though he did not oppose it outright.
While he has denied presidential ambitions for 2012, Mr. Christie has also said, ''I already know I could win,'' and he has left the door wide open to 2016 and beyond.
But first, he may run for re-election in 2013, and the same positions that might help in Republican presidential primaries could hurt him at home. A Rutgers-Eagleton poll of New Jersey registered voters last month found that 31 percent of those surveyed said Mr. Christie's anti-abortion speech in January had lowered their opinion of him, while 14 percent said it had raised theirs.
''Some of these conservative positions aren't going to play that well in New Jersey,'' said Ms. Duffy of The Cook Political Report. ''But he's already done remarkably well in a Democratic state, and he's got some serious political smarts. Don't underestimate him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Chris Christie has vowed not to run for president in 2012, despite talk by some that he is a contender. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT RAINEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); HISTORY (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); CANNABIS (69%); ABORTION (55%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: RIDER UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



427 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Defying the Syrian President, Thousands Protest in Sometimes Deadly Clashes

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK; Scott Shane contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Rejecting the Syrian president's latest effort to mollify them, thousands of protesters took to the streets in cities and towns across Syria on Sunday, using a national holiday commemorating the end of French colonialism to widen their challenge to his family's iron-fisted autocracy. Security officers responded with deadly force, witnesses reported, including live ammunition fired at a funeral and the seizure of critically wounded demonstrators from a hospital.
The protests on Sunday amounted to a brazen dismissal of the steps outlined by the president, Bashar al-Assad, only a day earlier in a televised address, notably the lifting of the country's 48-year-old state of emergency before the end of this week. The protests have posed an unprecedented challenge to the rule of Mr. Assad, who has clearly been shaken by the upheavals that have felled longstanding governments in Tunisia and Egypt and are threatening those in Yemen, Bahrain and Libya. 
The Syrian protests coincided with new disclosures that the United States began in 2005 to secretly finance some Syrian opposition groups intent on toppling Mr. Assad. The disclosures, in diplomatic cables obtained by WikiLeaks, showed State Department financing for Barada TV, an anti-Assad satellite broadcaster run by Syrian exiles in London, as well as concern by American diplomats in Syria that Syrian intelligence agents began to suspect the American financing two years ago.
It was unclear whether the secret financing has since been ended, but an April 2009 cable said a State Department program called the Middle East Partnership Initiative was to have distributed $12 million to Syrian projects by September 2010. The existence of the cables was first reported Sunday night on The Washington Post's Web site.
Mr. Assad has sought to suppress outside reporting on the protests, while his response to the protests themselves has oscillated between dry proposals for reform and deadly violence, and on Sunday it appeared violence was the choice. Clashes between security forces and protesters left at least five dead and dozens injured on the holiday, meant to celebrate the removal of the last French troops from Syria in 1946.
Rights groups estimate that more than 200 people have died in the unrest, which began in mid-March.
The protests on Sunday reflected not only a rejection of Mr. Assad's reforms, which also included a pledge to tackle unemployment and corruption and a law to permit political parties, but a desire to move beyond a political life dominated by the Assad family since 1971.
''Everyone is shouting against Bashar personally,'' said Razan Zeitouneh, an activist with the Syrian Human Rights Information Link. Among those singled out are Maher al-Assad, a brother who commands the security forces, and Rami Makhlouf, Mr. Assad's first cousin and a business tycoon widely seen as Syria's most powerful economic figure.
Protesters chanted, ''The people want the overthrow of Bashar!'' and borrowed a line from Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, who threatened in late February to hunt rebel fighters down house to house: ''Zenga zenga, dar dar, we want your head, oh Bashar!''
The worst of the violence on Sunday appeared to be in the central city of Homs and the nearby town of Talbesa.
Two died when security forces fired tear gas and live ammunition on a funeral procession in Talbesa, sending the town into chaos and leaving at least 15 wounded, said a witness and Ms. Zeitouneh. Security forces reportedly arrested a number of severely wounded protesters from the town's main hospital, she added, raising fears that at least 12 listed in critical condition could die. State news media, reflecting the official version of events, said one policeman was killed and 11 were wounded by rooftop snipers from a ''group of armed criminals.''
Live fire also rang through Homs' central Bab al-Sabe'a district when security forces shot at protesters, killing at least six people, Ms. Zeitouneh said. A witness said that three had died, two from the same family. He spoke over the telephone as the crowd behind him chanted, ''With our blood, with our souls, we will redeem you, oh martyrs!''
In the coastal city of Baniyas, witnesses reported, a pro-democracy march by 3,000 women that began Sunday morning had drawn thousands more by nightfall, chanting ''God, Syria and freedom'' and spray-painting slogans on the pavement urging Mr. Assad to ''go out!''
''We need our second independence in Syria,'' said Radwan Ziadeh, a Syrian rights activist and scholar at George Washington University in Washington. ''The first was from the French and the second will be from the Assad dynasty.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); CORRUPTION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (66%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (89%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (89%); TUNISIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); YEMEN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



428 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Clues in Goldman's Succession Plan

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
From the canyons of Wall Street to the City of London and beyond to Hong Kong, an intense guessing-game has begun: who will succeed Lloyd C. Blankfein when he eventually steps aside as chief executive of Goldman Sachs?
The speculation may be more than idle gossip for bored bankers. Two friends of Mr. Blankfein, 56, say he has told them since last summer that he is exhausted from leading the company through the financial crisis and that he would consider stepping down when he could do so gracefully, without the move appearing to be anything but voluntary.
The choice of Goldman's next chief could signal the firm's direction and influence the broader thinking on Wall Street, where Goldman often sets the tone.
For decades, Goldman's leaders came from its investment banking unit, which provided business strategy and merger advice to blue-chip companies. Mr. Blankfein, in contrast, was a commodities trader, and his ascension furthered the company's makeover as a trading powerhouse. 
To be sure, Mr. Blankfein may decide to stay a while, despite the chatter to the contrary. And as far as Goldman is concerned, Mr. Blankfein is not going anywhere. A spokesman for the firm, Lucas van Praag, declined to comment other than to note that Mr. Blankfein ''says he has never felt so energetic and has no plans to retire.''
Even with its reputation tarnished by a Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit last year, Goldman remains the world's most powerful investment bank, with its own mystique on Wall Street. It is a training ground for government officials and hedge fund managers alike, and its powerful alumni network extends its influence.
While other eminent financial companies, like Merrill Lynch, were crushed by the collapse of housing prices and lost of tens of billions with a wager on subprime mortgage debt, Goldman actually spotted the threat early and made a bet against the housing market, racking up sizable gains.
Even as its traditional archrival Morgan Stanley struggles with a stagnant stock price, Goldman shares are up more than 20 percent over the last two years. When Goldman reports earnings Tuesday, analysts expect a profit of about $443 million, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters, although the latest results will be depressed by the bank's plans to repurchase Warren E. Buffett's $5 billion investment.
Like George Steinbrenner in his stewardship of the New York Yankees, whoever is at the top of Goldman cuts an outsize figure among peers. Two recent chiefs -- Robert E. Rubin and Henry M. Paulson Jr. -- went on to become secretary of the Treasury, and another, Jon S. Corzine, later was a senator from New Jersey, and then governor of the state.
What is more, Mr. Blankfein, who assumed the top job in 2006, is one of only two chief executives of major banks who were at the helm before the financial crisis and remain in charge today. Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase is the other.
The top candidates to succeed Mr. Blankfein, according to three people briefed on the situation, are all company veterans, and they illustrate Goldman's global reach.
One of them, Michael S. Sherwood, is British and oversees a broad swath of the firm's international business from London. Another, J. Michael Evans, a Canadian and winner of an Olympic gold medal in rowing, is chairman of Goldman's Asian business. (Mr. Sherwood and Mr. Evans are both vice chairmen of the firm.)
The final contender, Gary D. Cohn, Goldman's president and chief operating officer, is Mr. Blankfein's top deputy in New York.
No favorite seems clear, but that is not unusual at Goldman. Several former partners and analysts said they would be surprised to see an outsider selected. And whether or not Mr. Blankfein leaves soon -- his urgency seems to have faded with the passing of the storm around Goldman, two people close to him said -- he has been there long enough to justify focusing on a succession plan, analysts said.
Roger Freeman, a financial analyst at Barclays Capital, said Mr. Blankfein might wait to see his firm through the final negotiations with Washington over new regulatory rules for the banking industry in the second half of 2011, before handing Goldman to a younger team in 2012. ''This has been an exhausting period,'' Mr. Freeman said. ''It would not be a surprising time to see a change.''
As the economy stumbled, Goldman's success brought harsh public criticism, as lawmakers and even some clients complained that Goldman was no longer putting clients first.
That argument gained strength after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Goldman of fraud last April in connection with a mortgage security it had created and sold. Goldman settled the case last July, paying a penalty of $550 million.
While the firm is clearly doing well, the public ire persists, especially in Washington. On Wednesday, after issuing a report examining the roots of the financial crisis, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan was sharply critical of Goldman's bet against housing. ''Why would Goldman deny what was so obvious, that they were engaged in a huge short in the year 2007?'' Senator Levin said. ''Because they gained at the expense of their clients and they used abusive practices to do it.''
All three leading candidates for the top job at Goldman have trading backgrounds but only Mr. Cohn took on a public role for the firm in the wake of the crisis.
As Goldman's president since 2006, he was called to testify before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission last summer, and he has spoken out to defend the bank. Mr. Cohn, 50, is also the closest of the three to Mr. Blankfein, having worked with him since 1990, when Mr. Cohn joined the firm as a trader of precious metals. He made his mark a decade ago by turning around Goldman's trading operations and expanding the mortgage business.
Some analysts said, however, that Mr. Cohn seems too closely connected to the crisis. They added that he lacks the smooth, statesmanlike approach Goldman may now need, though he gets credit for improving his presentation skills in recent years.
Mr. Sherwood, known to friends as Woody, is in a position that bears more similarities to where Mr. Blankfein was before he assumed the top job.
Mr. Sherwood is not only well liked, but also has deep knowledge of both the fixed-income and equities businesses -- making him an expert in the areas where Goldman makes the most money. He would presumably move to New York, if he took the job.
One mark against Mr. Sherwood, say former Goldman partners, is his role in pushing Goldman into a 2008 deal with a petrochemical company, LyondellBasell, that ended up being a major money loser. Mr. Sherwood, 45, and Mr. Evans, 53, have known each other for nearly 20 years. They were part of the same Goldman partnership class in 1994. And they were co-heads of Goldman's securities business from 2003 until promotions in 2008.
Mr. Evans is a more able showman and salesman than Mr. Sherwood or Mr. Cohn. But mentions of him in several media reports last fall as a possible successor alienated other Goldman executives, including Mr. Cohn and Mr. Blankfein, say two people who know them. Some wealthy Asian clients of Goldman are also said to be angry with Mr. Evans because his division was responsible for selling them structured finance investments that later performed poorly.
With the turmoil of last summer behind him, Mr. Blankfein may simply be weighing his options. ''I have heard some people at the company talk about it being a five-to-seven-year type of job, and he is getting in that range now, but I don't sense any urgency,'' said Glenn Schorr, banking analyst at Nomura.
It is possible, of course, that Goldman will look beyond the top three candidates to find an heir.
That is exactly what Mr. Blankfein's predecessor, Mr. Paulson, did when he bypassed the two leading contenders, John L. Thornton and John A. Thain, and promoted Mr. Blankfein in 2004 to the heir-apparent position. Some more junior candidates that analysts mention are: David M. Solomon, who is co-head of investment banking; and David B. Heller and Harvey M. Schwartz, co-heads of Goldman's securities division.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Friends say Lloyd C. Blankfein has considered stepping down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief of Goldman Sachs, left, with Gary D. Cohn, a top contender to succeed him. The others are J. Michael Evans, below left, and Michael S. Sherwood. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
QILAI SHEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 GOLDMAN SACHS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUCCESSION PLANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); BASEBALL (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); HOME PRICES (67%); COMMODITIES TRADING (67%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); ALUMNI (63%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (53%); GOVERNORS (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (93%); JON CORZINE (57%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



429 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: The New Republican Landscape: From Congress to statehouses, a sweeping attempt to dismantle the social compact

 BODY:
Six months after voters sent Republicans in large numbers to Congress and many statehouses, it is possible to see the full landscape of destruction that their policies would cause -- much of which has already begun. If it was not clear before, it is obvious now that the party is fully engaged in a project to dismantle the foundations of the New Deal and the Great Society, and to liberate business and the rich from the inconveniences of oversight and taxes.
At first it seemed that only a few freshmen and noisy followers of the Tea Party would support the new extremism. But on Friday, nearly unanimous House Republicans showed just how far their mainstream has been dragged to the right. They approved on strict party lines the most regressive social legislation in many decades, embodied in a blueprint by the budget chairman, Paul Ryan. The vote, from which only four Republicans (and all Democrats) dissented, would have been unimaginable just eight years ago to a Republican Party that added a prescription drug benefit to Medicare. 
Mr. Ryan called the vote ''our generation's defining moment,'' and indeed, nothing could more clearly define the choice that will face voters next year.
His bill would end the guarantee provided by Medicare and Medicaid to the elderly and the poor, which has been provided by the federal government with society's clear assent since 1965. The elderly, in particular, would be cut adrift by Mr. Ryan. People now under 55 would be required to pay at least $6,400 more for health care when they qualified for Medicare, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Fully two-thirds of his $4.3 trillion in budget cuts would come from low-income programs.
In addition to making ''entitlement'' a dirty word, the Ryan bulldozer would go much further in knocking down government programs to achieve its goals. It would cut food stamps by $127 billion, or 20 percent, over the next 10 years, almost certainly increasing hunger among the poor. It would cut Pell grants for all 9.4 million student recipients next year, removing as many as one million of them from the program altogether. It would remove more than 100,000 low-income children from Head Start, and slash job-training programs for the unemployed desperate to learn new skills.
And it would do all that while preserving the Bush tax cuts for the rich, and even expanding them. Regulation of business and the environment would be sharply reduced.
The mania for blindly cutting has also spread to statehouses, many with new Republican governors and legislatures. Several states have cut their unemployment benefits below the standard 26 weeks. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona has proposed removing 138,000 people from Medicaid. Many recession-battered states, including some led by Democrats, have been forced to cut other services because Republicans have made it so politically difficult to raise taxes. Education, mental health and juvenile justice funds have been particular targets.
In Wisconsin, Ohio, Indiana, Maine and Florida, Republican governors have used the smokescreen of a poor economy to pursue a long-held conservative goal of destroying public and private unions. This has nothing to do with creating jobs, of course, and it has shocked many blue-collar voters who are suddenly second-guessing their support for Republicans last November. Several states are also adopting Arizona-style anti-immigrant laws.
President Obama, after staying in the shadows too long, is starting to illuminate the serious damage that Republicans are doing. Their vision, he said last week, ''is less about reducing the deficit than it is about changing the basic social compact in America.'' Other Democrats are also beginning to stand up and reject these ideas, having been cowed for months by the electoral wave. Their newfound confidence will give voters a clearer view of this bare and pessimistic landscape.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (52%); MEDICAID (52%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); JAN BREWER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



430 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
The Grocery Manufacturers Association and the Food Marketing Institute selected several agencies for a new assignment with spending estimated at $50 million. The agencies will work on a campaign to educate consumers about the new Nutrition Keys program by which nutrition labeling will appear on the front of food product packages. Four agencies are part of the Omnicom Group: BBDO New York, the Integer Group, PHD and Proximity. The other agencies are Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc., and FoodMinds.
Cigna, Philadelphia, selected Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its advertising agency of record. The assignment, which had previously been handled internally, has a budget estimated at $20 million.
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton awarded the United States creative duties for Hennessy cognac to Droga5, New York. The assignment, with spending estimated at $9 million to $10 million, had been handled by Berlin Cameron United, New York, part of the United unit of WPP. 
Dave & Buster's, Dallas, the restaurant chain owned by Oak Hill Capital Partners, selected Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP, as its agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by Merkley & Partners, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. The Y&R Chicago office will lead the creative work on the account.
Front Burner Brands, Tampa, Fla., whose restaurants include Burger 21, GrillSmith and Melting Pot, chose Red Tettemer & Partners, Philadelphia, as its advertising agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by Push, Orlando, Fla.
The Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Dallas, expanded its relationship with Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, by naming it as digital agency of record for the Huggies line of products. Billings were not disclosed. The account had previously been handled by Wunderman, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP. Ogilvy already handles the brand assignment for Huggies in North America as well as advertising, direct marketing and shopper marketing in many countries. The Ogilvy office in Chicago and the New York headquarters will share handling the assignment.
People
Matt Freeman, chief executive at the Mediabrands Ventures unit of Mediabrands, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, is joining an Interpublic sibling, McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, in a new post, vice chairman and global chief innovation officer. Mr. Freeman will not be replaced; the Mediabrands Ventures units will be absorbed into Mediabrands, which is led by Matt Seiler, chief executive. Mr. Freeman will report to Nick Brien, chairman and chief executive at the McCann Worldgroup.
Ash Bennington joined the New York office of MDC Partners as director for strategic technology and innovation. He had been a journalist at CNBC, part of the NBC Universal unit of the Comcast Corporation. Mr. Bennington assumes some duties that had been handled by Brandon Berger, who was vice president for digital innovation at the MDC New York office before leaving in December to join Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP, as global chief digital officer.
Winston Binch joined Deutsch L.A. in a new post, partner and chief digital officer. He had been partner and managing director at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners, where he was most recently focused on business development. Deutsch L.A. is the Playa del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Rob Quish, a member of the management team of the North American operations of JWT, part of WPP, will add to his duties serving as chief executive of JWT Atlanta, which supervises offices in Atlanta, Dallas and Houston. He succeeds Ridge White, who will work on the agency's Shell North America account and be based in Houston.
Sherry Orel, president at Brand Connections, New York, was promoted to chief executive. She succeeds Brian F. Martin, who becomes chairman, a new post. Brand Connections is majority owned by Veronis Suhler Stevenson.
Kevin Arthur, executive vice president at Firstborn, New York, was promoted to chief operating officer, a new post.
Michael A. Clinton was named chairman of MPA, the Association of Magazine Media, New York. He succeeds Jack Griffin, who resigned after being dismissed as the chief executive of Time Inc., New York, part of Time Warner. (An executive must have a job at a member company to serve as an officer of the association.) Mr. Clinton will serve until the MPA annual meeting in October 2012. Mr. Clinton is the president for marketing and publishing director at Hearst Magazines, New York, part of the Hearst Corporation.
Miscellany
Yellow Pages Association, Berkeley Heights, N.J., which was founded in 1975, is being renamed the Local Search Association to underline the transition of its members to providing local search services online from publishing print directories. The renamed organization signed membership agreements with companies including CityGrid Media, Kudzu and MerchEngine. The association is also changing its familiar ''walking fingers'' logo, adopting a more stylized depiction.
Sponsorships of the arts and culture have grown in their ability to help the sponsoring companies, brands and products, according to the Culture Track 2011 survey released last week by LaPlaca Cohen, AMS Planning and Research and the Alliance for the Arts. Fifty-three percent of respondents said they were likely to ''think highly'' of a sponsor, compared with 42 percent in the 2007 survey. Fifty-three percent said they were ''more receptive'' to messages from such sponsors, compared with 32 percent in 2007. And 38 percent said they would be more likely to purchase a sponsor's goods, compared with 31 percent in 2007. The effects were most pronounced, the survey reported, among those who most frequently attend cultural and arts events; for example, 61 percent of frequent attendees in the 2011 survey said they would be more likely to purchase a sponsor's goods, compared with 51 percent in the 2007 survey.
The Brown-Forman Corporation, Louisville, Ky., plans to introduce a line extension of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey, called Jack Daniel's Tennessee Honey, with a campaign that includes a considerable presence in social media. The brand will be the first alcoholic beverage to advertise on Twitter, Brown-Forman said, with what are known as a promoted trend and promoted tweets. The brand will also have its own Twitter handle, @JackHoney; commercials on Facebook, to be shown to users ages 21 to 49; its own Facebook page; and its own YouTube channel. There will also be traditional ads like TV spots and billboards. The agencies working on the social media elements include Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas; DVL Public Relations and Advertising; Slingshot; and Universal McCann, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Publicis Groupe, Paris, said it would sell its majority stake in Freud Communications, London, to the agency's founder and chairman, Matthew Freud. Financial terms of the deal, which makes Freud an independent agency, were not disclosed. Publicis had owned its stake in Freud since 2005.
The Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity will introduce an initiative it is calling the Cannes Creative Academy for Young Marketers. It is sponsored by Wunderman, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP, and open to those age 30 or younger. The weeklong program intends to enroll 35 people and will take place during the 58th Cannes Lion festival, to be held in Cannes, France, on June 19 to 25. James R. Stengel, the former global marketing officer of Procter & Gamble, will serve as dean of the program.
Mazda North American Operations, Irvine, Calif., introduced a campaign last week from its new agency, Garage-Team Mazda, Irvine, part of WPP. The campaign carries the theme ''What do you drive?'' and commercials end with a boy's whispering the phrase ''Zoom-zoom,'' the brand's longtime theme that was created by the previous Mazda agency, Doner.
Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore., won the top honor, known as the Grandy, at the 47th annual International Andy Awards, for an effort for the Old Spice body wash sold by Procter & Gamble. The effort, known as ''Response,'' involved the creation of 186 personalized video clips featuring the Old Spice brand character, Isaiah Mustafa, which were uploaded to YouTube where they were viewed an estimated 60 million times. The Grandy comes with a $50,000 cash prize, a championship ring and a designation as Best in Show. The worldwide agency networks that won the most 2011 Andy Awards were: Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, with 10; Wieden & Kennedy, eight; Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP, also eight; and DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, seven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FOOD MFG (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (73%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%); FOOD LABELING (73%); JOURNALISM (63%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (94%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); WPP PLC (92%); EDELMAN (85%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (82%); COMCAST CORP (81%); DANIEL J EDELMAN INC (72%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (61%); HILL HOLLIDAY (57%); CIGNA CORP (57%); BBDO NEW YORK (57%); DAVE & BUSTER'S ENTERTAINMENT INC (56%); OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (50%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (91%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (84%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); MC (PAR) (94%); LVMH (BIT) (94%); OMC (NYSE) (93%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); KMB (NYSE) (82%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (81%); CCV (NYSE) (81%); CI (NYSE) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (50%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (94%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (82%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); NAICS713120 AMUSEMENT ARCADES (56%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



431 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Let's Not Be Civil

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last week, President Obama offered a spirited defense of his party's values -- in effect, of the legacy of the New Deal and the Great Society. Immediately thereafter, as always happens when Democrats take a stand, the civility police came out in force. The president, we were told, was being too partisan; he needs to treat his opponents with respect; he should have lunch with them, and work out a consensus.
That's a bad idea. Equally important, it's an undemocratic idea. 
Let's review the story so far.
Two weeks ago, House Republicans released their big budget proposal, selling it to credulous pundits as a statement of necessity, not ideology -- a document telling America What Must Be Done.
But it was, in fact, a deeply partisan document, which you might have guessed from the opening sentence: ''Where the president has failed, House Republicans will lead.'' It hyped the danger of deficits, yet even on its own (not at all credible) accounting, spending cuts were used mainly to pay for tax cuts rather than deficit reduction. The transparent and obvious goal was to use deficit fears to impose a vision of small government and low taxes, especially on the wealthy.
So the House budget proposal revealed a yawning gap between the two parties' priorities. And it revealed a deep difference in views about how the world works.
When the proposal was released, it was praised as a ''wonk-approved'' plan that had been run by the experts. But the ''experts'' in question, it turned out, were at the Heritage Foundation, and few people outside the hard right found their conclusions credible. In the words of the consulting firm Macroeconomic Advisers -- which makes its living telling businesses what they need to know, not telling politicians what they want to hear -- the Heritage analysis was ''both flawed and contrived.'' Basically, Heritage went all in on the much-refuted claim that cutting taxes on the wealthy produces miraculous economic results, including a surge in revenue that actually reduces the deficit.
By the way, Heritage is always like this. Whenever there's something the G.O.P. doesn't like -- say, environmental protection -- Heritage can be counted on to produce a report, based on no economic model anyone else recognizes, claiming that this policy would cause huge job losses. Correspondingly, whenever there's something Republicans want, like tax cuts for the wealthy or for corporations, Heritage can be counted on to claim that this policy would yield immense economic benefits.
The point is that the two parties don't just live in different moral universes, they also live in different intellectual universes, with Republicans in particular having a stable of supposed experts who reliably endorse whatever they propose.
So when pundits call on the parties to sit down together and talk, the obvious question is, what are they supposed to talk about? Where's the common ground?
Eventually, of course, America must choose between these differing visions. And we have a way of doing that. It's called democracy.
Now, Republicans claim that last year's midterms gave them a mandate for the vision embodied in their budget. But last year the G.O.P. ran against what it called the ''massive Medicare cuts'' contained in the health reform law. How, then, can the election have provided a mandate for a plan that not only would preserve all of those cuts, but would go on, over time, to dismantle Medicare completely?
For what it's worth, polls suggest that the public's priorities are nothing like those embodied in the Republican budget. Large majorities support higher, not lower, taxes on the wealthy. Large majorities -- including a majority of Republicans -- also oppose major changes to Medicare. Of course, the poll that matters is the one on Election Day. But that's all the more reason to make the 2012 election a clear choice between visions.
Which brings me to those calls for a bipartisan solution. Sorry to be cynical, but right now ''bipartisan'' is usually code for assembling some conservative Democrats and ultraconservative Republicans -- all of them with close ties to the wealthy, and many who are wealthy themselves -- and having them proclaim that low taxes on high incomes and drastic cuts in social insurance are the only possible solution.
This would be a corrupt, undemocratic way to make decisions about the shape of our society even if those involved really were wise men with a deep grasp of the issues. It's much worse when many of those at the table are the sort of people who solicit and believe the kind of policy analyses that the Heritage Foundation supplies.
So let's not be civil. Instead, let's have a frank discussion of our differences. In particular, if Democrats believe that Republicans are talking cruel nonsense, they should say so -- and take their case to the voters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



432 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: The Middle-Class Tax Trap

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
''Let's tell the truth,'' Walter Mondale said, accepting the Democratic nomination in 1984. ''Mr. Reagan will raise taxes, and so will I. He won't tell you. I just did.''
Three months later, Mondale lost 49 states, and liberal politicians learned a valuable lesson. In the decades since, national Democrats have often promised to raise taxes -- but only for the rich, and never for the middle class. 
Bill Clinton wrote the playbook: ''We will lower the tax burden on middle-class Americans,'' he pledged in 1992, ''by asking the very wealthy to pay their fair share.'' In 2008, Barack Obama imitated Clinton, campaigning on a promise to raise taxes for the richest 5 percent while cutting them for everybody else.
Last week, in his address on deficit reduction, the president followed the playbook once again. In the throat-clearing section of the speech, Obama promised ''tough choices'' that put ''everything on the table.'' But his tax proposals were aptly summarized by The Atlantic's Clive Crook: ''The rich can pay for it all.''
As it happens, they can't. Squeezing the wealthy buys some short-term deficit reduction: over the next decade, President Obama's plan could trim (almost) as much off the deficit as Paul Ryan's controversial Republican budget -- $4 trillion, give or take.
But that $4 trillion is just a fraction of America's projected long-term debt. The whole point of the Ryan plan is that the real deficit reduction starts at year 10, when his Medicare reforms are phased in.
Under the president's plan, we soak the rich in the short term, and then just keep going deeper into the red.
Does a plan to cut the deficit with middle-class tax increases exist? In a sense, it does. It's called the ''current law baseline,'' a Congressional Budget Office projection in which the Bush-era tax rates aren't renewed in 2012, the Alternative Minimum Tax (which is supposed to hit only the rich but increasingly bites into middle-class paychecks) isn't indexed for inflation, and Medicare payments to doctors are slashed by 20 percent.
With these policies, the deficit drops away in the next 10 years, and more important, it stays manageably low for the decades after that.
This projection has become a touchstone for liberal wonks -- ''the graph that all budget discussions should start with,'' The Washington Post's Ezra Klein wrote last week. It does not represent their ideal policy vision by any means, but it is frequently cited as proof that we do not need to radically reform entitlements to keep the country solvent.
All we need to do instead is let taxes rise and keep on rising. This is how the ''current law baseline'' cuts the deficit: Thanks to inflation and bracket creep, its tax code gradually subjects more and more Americans to rates that now fall only on the wealthy.
Today, for instance, a family of four making the median income -- $94,900 -- pays 15 percent in federal taxes. By 2035, under the C.B.O. projection, payroll and income taxes would claim 25 percent of that family's paycheck. The marginal tax rate on labor income would rise from 29 percent to 38 percent. Federal tax revenue, which has averaged 18 percent of G.D.P. since World War II, would hit 23 percent by the 2030s and climb even higher after that.
Such unprecedented levels of taxation would throw up hurdles to entrepreneurship, family formation and upward mobility. (Or as the C.B.O. puts it, in its understated way, they would ''tend to discourage some economic activity,'' and ''harm the economy through the impact on people's decisions about how much to work and save.'')
They could have ugly political consequences as well. Historically, the most successful welfare states (think Scandinavia) have depended on ethnic solidarity to sustain their tax-and-transfer programs. But the working-age America of the future will be far more diverse than the retired cohort it's laboring to support. Asking a population that's increasingly brown and beige to accept punishing tax rates while white seniors receive roughly $3 in Medicare benefits for every dollar they paid in (the projected ratio in the 2030s) promises to polarize the country along racial as well as generational lines.
The Republican vision for entitlement reform, President Obama said last week, would lead to ''a fundamentally different America'' than the one we inhabit today. He's right: asking the elderly to pay more for their health care, as Paul Ryan proposes to do, would transform the American social contract, and cause no small amount of pain.
But what Obama didn't acknowledge is that the alternative path could lead to a different country as well -- a more stagnant and balkanized society, in which our promise to the elderly crowds out the fundamental promise of America itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); MEDICARE (63%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



433 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Debt Ceiling Increase Is Expected, Geithner Says

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said Sunday that Congressional Republican leaders had signaled strongly to the White House that they would vote in favor of raising the national debt ceiling, despite pressure from some lawmakers in the party to use the coming vote as leverage to seek deep spending cuts.
In a pair of appearances on Sunday talk shows, Mr. Geithner said the Republican leaders made it clear to President Obama in a White House meeting last Wednesday that they would go along with the administration's efforts to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a financial crisis. 
''Congress is going to have to raise the debt limit,'' Mr. Geithner said on the NBC program ''Meet the Press.'' ''They understand that. That's absolutely essential to preserve the creditworthiness of the United States of America.''
He went on: ''You know, we're a country that meets its obligations, and we have to meet our obligations, and they recognize that. In fact, I heard the leadership tell the president that again on Wednesday.''
Republican leaders responded rather indirectly to Mr. Geithner later on Sunday, focusing on their demands for greater spending cuts in next year's budget in exchange for a vote to raise the debt ceiling, rather than on whether they actually planned to vote for the increase.
In a statement, Michael Steel, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, said Mr. Boehner had made it plain to the president at the White House meeting that more spending cuts would be the price for a debt ceiling deal.
''Boehner has been very clear: the American people demand that any increase in the debt ceiling be accompanied by spending cuts, and real reforms so we can keep cutting,'' Mr. Steel said.
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee, gave a similar response to Mr. Geithner's assertions on the CBS program ''Face the Nation.''
''We want cuts in spending accompanying a raising of the debt ceiling, and that is what I believe they told the president,'' Mr. Ryan said, referring to Republican leaders. He added that ''nobody wants to play around with the country's credit rating.''
''Nobody wants to see defaults happening,'' he said, ''but we also think it's important to get a handle on future borrowing as we deal with raising the debt limit.''
The administration says the legal debt limit, now just over $14 trillion, will be reached next month. Many economists have warned that if the ceiling is not raised, the United States will soon begin to default on its debt, and that could set off an international financial crisis.
The vote over raising the debt ceiling is the second major showdown over budgetary and financial matters between the White House and the Republican-controlled House in recent weeks. A government shutdown was narrowly averted when negotiators worked out a deal that included billions of dollars in spending cuts for the remainder of the 2011 fiscal year. Mr. Obama signed that legislation on Friday, just in time for the next battle.
Republicans, prompted by Tea Party supporters who helped fuel their electoral victory in the 2010 midterm elections, have been pushing for greater leverage to cut spending further, and the debt ceiling vote has been looming for months as one of their most potent weapons.
Yet it is not clear how much of an appetite there is among Republicans for a showdown on the debt ceiling. Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican elected last year as a Tea Party favorite, said Sunday that he was not necessarily opposed to raising the debt ceiling. When asked on the CNN program ''State of the Union'' whether he would vote on a bill to raise the limit, even without other provisions attached to the legislation, Mr. Paul answered indirectly.
''I don't think it should be an either-or situation, you know,'' he said. ''There is another alternative, and that is that we send the message to the president through legislation that says: 'You know what, Mr. President? Don't default, but pay the interest out of the revenue.' ''
Mr. Obama acknowledged Friday in an interview with The Associated Press that he would have to agree to Republican demands for more spending cuts to win their backing for a higher debt limit.
On Sunday, Mr. Geithner gave a slightly more detailed answer, saying it would be difficult to try to push both the spending cuts and the debt ceiling through Congress simultaneously.
''I think you can do these things in parallel,'' he said on ''Meet the Press.'' ''But if by the time we need to raise the debt limit, we haven't worked all that out, Congress still has to raise the debt limit. And again, leadership realized that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy F. Geithner predicted Sunday that G.O.P. leaders would support a debt limit increase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED WATKINS/ABC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Representative Paul D. Ryan said Sunday that spending cuts must accompany a limit increase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); PAUL RYAN (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



434 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Amid Din, Serious Talk on Debt

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Let's have an adult conversation about the federal budget - because Washington has started one.
No, seriously.
It's hard to hear through the clamor surrounding rival approaches to the budget by President Obama and House Republicans. Because the din was linked to the volatile debate over raising the debt limit, it sounded like a typical partisan brawl with an atypical ability to destabilize financial markets and the economic recovery.
But listen closely, and you can hear something different: moves by Republicans and Democrats to decouple what they must resolve within the next two months from what they'll battle over for the next two years. 
Consider the reaction of Representative Paul D. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, after Mr. Obama's speech excoriated Mr. Ryan's proposal as an attempt to take money from older people with health problems and give it to millionaires.
''It definitely poisons the well on a comprehensive solution to our budget problem,'' Mr. Ryan said on CNBC. The picture the president painted of his budget, Mr. Ryan added, was that ''basically it's un-American.''
Yet Mr. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, went on to separate the impact of Mr. Obama's words on long-term budget negotiation from their impact on the short-term challenge of persuading Congress to raise the federal debt limit.
''As far as the debt limit, we're just going to have to forget about the president for now,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''He's out campaigning, giving us this kind of demagoguery and this kind of rhetoric.
''We're going to have to work with our colleagues, Democrat colleagues here in Congress, act like adults, and try and get a solution to that particular problem. Which we intend on doing.''
In today's Washington, that's the sound of the White House and Congress working together.
Blending Approaches
Decoupling short-term challenges from long-term battles over debt and deficits won't be easy. The issues overlap; the ideologies behind the two parties' approaches hardly overlap at all.
Republicans see the long-term solution as a fundamental diminution of the role of government, foremost in the entitlement programs of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.
Democrats aim to preserve the essential character of those huge programs. They would pare deficits by combining less-consequential spending cuts with tax increases, particularly on the most affluent Americans.
Given the nation's political divisions, enacting a solution will almost certainly require a blend of both approaches. That's what the Senate's bipartisan ''Gang of Six'' is trying to negotiate.
Even if the six succeed, however, 10 times as many of their colleagues must agree to move anything through the Senate. So odds tilt strongly against passage of substantive changes in taxes or entitlements until after Mr. Obama and his Republican adversaries place their alternatives in front of voters in the 2012 presidential campaign.
Yet House Republicans insist on immediate steps toward a long-term solution - as their price for raising the debt limit, which both sides acknowledge must happen before Washington's authority to borrow runs out around July 8. Those more limited steps are the subject of negotiations that Mr. Obama initiated with Republicans, even as he blistered their budget.
Signals of Agreement
Already, both sides have backed similar long-term goals of $4 trillion in deficit reduction, the level advanced by Mr. Obama's bipartisan fiscal commission. They'll haggle over budget process ''triggers'' intended to force the government to hit numerical targets.
Still unclear is what policy disputes must be settled in an agreement to smooth the path for raising the debt limit. In addition to the familiar ''tax reform'' euphemism to avoid Republican opposition to tax hikes, Mr. Obama has offered a new one: ''reduce spending in the tax code.''
But public comments by Republican leaders as well as their private discussions with Mr. Obama have signaled mutual commitment to an agreement allowing a debt limit increase to pass Congress. Representative John A. Boehner signaled as much last November, even before he took the speaker's gavel, when he said ''we're going to have to deal with it as adults.''
Passage last Thursday of the 2011 budget agreement provided a template for cooperation. That morning, the House Republican whip, Kevin McCarthy, informed his Democratic counterpart, Steny H. Hoyer, that because of conservative defections, the deal needed Democratic votes. The 81 votes Democrats provided let it pass easily.
What leaders don't want to replicate is the brinksmanship that left the federal government within an hour of shutting down. On the debt limit, suspense itself could produce the falling confidence and rising interest rates that business and government both want to avoid.
''Everybody agrees that a countdown clock will be harmful,'' Mr. Hoyer said in an interview.
In a White House meeting last week with Mr. Obama and Congressional leaders from both parties, Mr. Hoyer offered an idea to keep one from starting: pass a debt limit increase by June 8, a full month ahead of the deadline.
Republican leaders didn't commit. But ''nobody said, 'No, we can't do it,' '' Mr. Hoyer said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); MEDICAID (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



435 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: President Heads West To Sell His Deficit Plan

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After weeks of tussling and political gamesmanship in Congress over federal spending, President Obama will take his message on the road this week, traveling to the West Coast to promote his deficit-cutting plan.
It is the first campaign-style tour for Mr. Obama since he emerged from the sidelines of the deficit debate last week with a speech calling for a mix of long-term spending cuts, tax increases and changes to entitlement-benefit programs.
With its emphasis on cutting the budget, the speech had elements to appease moderates and independents who have been drawn to the calls from freshman Republicans in Congress to rein in government spending. But at the same time, the address was a nod to the liberal wing in his party, with its progressive notes about the government's responsibility to provide a safety net to its citizens. 
The 44-minute speech seemed to win over at least some leading liberal figures -- a big first step toward shoring up and energizing his party's base at the outset of a re-election campaign that will inevitably require him to play to the middle and, potentially, draw renewed ire from the left.
''Undoubtedly, he rediscovered his voice,'' said Robert B. Reich, the chancellor's professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Hopefully, this will be his campaign voice.''
The trip, with stops in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Reno, Nev., is also Mr. Obama's first since the unofficial start of his re-election campaign in Chicago last week.
While he faces a fractured and late-starting field of Republican challengers, some political clouds hang over him, too.
In the latest Gallup tracking poll, Mr. Obama's approval rating was 41 percent, tied with the lowest level of his presidency. Among Democrats, his approval was 77 percent, four percentage points below his average rating in 2011 and seven points below his average rating since he became president.
It is hard to say whether Mr. Obama's deficit plan dampened his ratings, since the interviews were conducted on April 12 and 14, before and after the speech. But they clearly reflect worries about the economy and pessimism that the White House will find common ground with the Republicans.
Mr. Reich, who was labor secretary in the Clinton administration, said Mr. Obama's pledge to defend health care and Social Security would resonate with older voters, who deserted the Democratic Party in the last midterm elections. Democrats, he said, will also respond to Mr. Obama's vow to raise taxes for higher-income Americans when the Bush administration's tax cuts finally expire in 2012.
''His language had a kind of 'read my lips' quality that will make it hard to retreat from,'' Mr. Reich said. ''The question remains whether he has closed the enthusiasm gap. I don't think one speech will do it.''
Mr. Obama acknowledged as much on Thursday, speaking to 2,300 young supporters at Navy Pier in Chicago.
''I know there are times where some of you have felt frustrated because we've had to compromise with the Republicans on some issues,'' he said. ''There have been times people are frustrated because we didn't get everything done in the first two years. There have been times where I felt the same way you do.''
But Mr. Obama implored the crowd not to lose heart, declaring that the vision of America he laid out in his fiscal speech -- one in which ''we are connected to one another; that I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper'' -- would animate his campaign and drive the debate in the 2012 election.
If Mr. Obama sticks to that message, it will cheer other Democratic constituencies, not least the labor movement. Unions were dismayed by the budget deal the White House struck with House Republicans in December to extend the Bush tax cuts, even though it also extended unemployment insurance.
But union officials said Mr. Obama won them back last week. ''The rhetoric of the speech was fabulous,'' said Thea Lee, the chief economist of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''It was a strong speech; it was a principled speech.''
Ms. Lee said there was still uncertainty about parts of Mr. Obama's plan, notably how it would affect taxes. The White House said it could generate $1 trillion in savings from ''tax expenditures'' -- closing loopholes on deductions for charitable donations, interest payments on home mortgages and the like.
For frustrated Democrats, perhaps the only thing better than Mr. Obama's feisty speech last week about cutting the deficit were the even feistier remarks he made about the Republicans the next evening, at an intimate dinner with campaign contributors in a chic Chicago restaurant.
Speaking into a microphone that he thought was off, Mr. Obama bragged about how he had faced down House Republicans during budget talks. ''You want to repeal health care? Go at it. We'll have that debate,'' Mr. Obama said, recalling a testy exchange with an aide to Speaker John A. Boehner. ''You're not going to be able to do that by nickel-and-diming me in the budget. You think we're stupid?''
The White House said later that Mr. Obama did not regret that his private remarks had been picked up by reporters. And why should he, Democratic loyalists asked.
After a period in which the party faithful fretted that Mr. Obama was giving up too much to the Republicans, those supporters were thrilled to see him come out swinging.
''He needs to be combative,'' Mr. Reich said. ''The Republicans have been combative since he became president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama urged supporters on Thursday in Chicago not to lose heart over compromises made with Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (54%) WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



436 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Comparing Ryan's Medicare Plan to What Congress Gets

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The architect of the G.O.P. proposal neglects one detail, an economist writes: it indexes coverage increases to overall consumer prices, not health-care costs, which could shift a growing burden to beneficiaires. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
On April 15, the House of Representatives passed, on a partisan vote, the budget plan that Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, had earlier introduced to his committee.
Mr. Ryan's plan should be read closely by every voting citizen, as it comes closer than any other legislative proposal I can recall to the libertarian vision for America.
At the same time, I urge readers to study the Congressional Budget Office's analysis of Mr. Ryan's plan and a very good summary of the plan by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.

With regard to health care, the Ryan plan envisages a major withdrawal of at least the federal government from the financing of health care in America. Among the major provisions to that effect are these: 
 Through block grants rather than sharing actual outlays by the states on Medicaid, it would drastically reduce the federal government's contribution to the state-run Medicaid programs, which, of course, might force states to raise their taxes on their residents or significantly reduce eligibility for the program.
 It would repeal and defund the president's health-care law, in particular the large federal subsidies that would go either to low-income families toward the purchase of health insurance or to the states to enroll such families in Medicaid. Instead, the plan says, it would "advance common-sense solutions focused on lowering costs, expanding access and protecting the doctor-patient relationship." What the alternative solutions expanding access would be, especially the financing of these solutions, is not made clear.
 For people now 55 or younger, the traditional Medicare program - a defined benefit plan - would cease to exist and, starting in 2022, would be converted to a defined contribution program. Starting in 2022 the eligibility age would gradually be ratcheted up to 67 from the current 65.
It is not surprising, and altogether healthy in our democracy, that Mr. Ryan's vision has drawn sharp criticism from the liberal camp, including a speech by President Obama himself. In this post, I will leave such commentary untouched and focus on only one aspect of the proposal.
In an Op-Ed piece in The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Ryan wrote, "Starting in 2022, new Medicare beneficiaries will be enrolled in the same kind of health-care program that members of Congress enjoy."
He repeated that assertion on NBC's "Meet the Press" on April 10, when he said, "For future generations, what we are proposing is a personalized Medicare, a Medicare system that works exactly like the health care I have as a member of Congress and federal employees have."
Exactly? I beg to differ.
There is a huge difference in one important aspect between the Medicare program in the Ryan budget plan and the Federal Employee Health Benefit Plan, or F.E.H.B.P., for federal employees and for members of Congress.
Basically, the F.E.H.B.P. is best described as a typical employer-sponsored health insurance plan. The federal government's - that is, taxpayers' - annual contribution to the premiums paid to competing private insurers by employees and members of Congress would rise in step with the average premiums charged by the private insurers (see Page 1).
These premiums have been rising over time more or less in step with the overall increase in per-capita health spending in this country.
By contrast, under the Ryan plan, the federal contribution toward the purchase of private health insurance by future Medicare beneficiaries would be indexed only to the Consumer Price Index (see Page 2 of the C.B.O. analysis).
Over the last three decades, the C.P.I. has grown at a much slower rate than per-capita health spending, especially since 2000 (see the chart below).
The following table shows the numerical difference between the growth in the C.P.I. and health insurance premiums since 2000. The table also shows that with the exception of a few years, private health insurance premiums tend to rise as fast and often faster than does Medicare spending per beneficiary, in good part, of course, because Medicare can control the prices it pays the providers of health care (although not the volume of these services).
Indexing the federal contribution to Medicare beneficiaries to the C.P.I. can thus be expected to shift an ever-larger share of the total health spending on Medicare beneficiaries from the books of government to the household budgets of these beneficiaries. It is fair to wonder whether members of Congress would ever pass a bill indexing the federal contribution to their insurance premiums only to the C.P.I. rather than, as now, to the growth in insurance premiums.
As the Congressional Budget Office noted in its analysis of the Ryan proposal, for a typical 65-year-old with average health spending enrolled in a private plan
with benefits similar to those currently provided by Medicare, C.B.O. estimated the beneficiary's spending on premiums and out-of-pocket expenditure as a share of a benchmark: what total health care spending would be if a private insurer covered the beneficiary. By 2030, the beneficiary's spending would be 68 percent of that benchmark under the proposal (see Pages 20-24 and Figure 1 on Page 22).
If private insurance premiums after 2030 continued to grow at a rate exceeding the growth in the C.P.I., the federal contribution to Medicare might shrink even further.
Perhaps this is what the voting public wants - and perhaps not. Either way, it is important that voters, especially those under age 55, follow with open eyes the fierce budget battle now erupting between Republicans and Democrats, so they will be well informed of the consequences of each choice offered them by the feuding politicians.
Unfortunately, the combatants themselves will probably not disclose the full consequences of their options to the voting public. Instead, politicians on both sides of the aisle are likely to camouflage these consequences in mellow language, as Representative Ryan did in regard to his Medicare proposal.
Politicians and elected officials appear to have concluded from years of experience that the public has never favored those who tell them the harsh truth. It's almost as though the public wants to be misled.
The specific proposals aside, does the Ryan plan offers anything to control overall health-care spending?
No, nor does that appear to have been Mr. Ryan's objective.
As the Congressional Budget Office observed, "Private plans would cost more than traditional Medicare because of the net effect of differences in payment rates for providers, administrative costs and utilization of health services, as described above." The data in the table above support that conclusion as well.

        
Does the Ryan Plan Curb Health Spending?
        
Evidence vs. Ideology in the Medicare Debate
        
Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan's Budget
        
A Conservative Case for the Welfare State
        
Mitt Romney and Extreme Fiscal Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); MEDICAID (58%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) budget deficit; health care; Medicaid; politics; U.S. health care costs; Uwe E. Reinhardt; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Federal Budget (US); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; United States Politics and Government; Economix

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



437 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BRESSLER, SIDNEY

 BODY:
BRESSLER--Sidney. Age 90, of New York City and Goshen, CT, formerly of Tenafly, NJ. Born in Paterson, NJ, he attended the London School of Economics and graduated from Ohio State University. While studying in England, he developed a passion for antiques which presaged a long and distinguished career as an art dealer and proprietor of Royal Galleries in New Jersey. His catalogue raisonne on the American impressionist, Reynolds Beal, remains the authoritative work on the artist. His accomplishments were in many ways enabled by his adored and adoring wife of 60 years, Rhoda Bressler. He is also survived by his loving children, Pam Schafler and her husband, Scott, and Neil Bressler and his wife, Susan. He was the proud and beloved grandfather of Michael, Steven, Jonathan and Matthew and a caring uncle to Martin, Susan, Lisa, Douglas, Ross (deceased) and Rena. In lieu of flowers, the family invites you to consider a gift to The Lustgarten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer Research, 1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, NY 11714. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); ONCOLOGY (72%); ART DEALERS (71%); CANCER (64%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



438 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: WALL ST. SENDS WARNING TO U.S. ON DEBT LEVELS

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Carl Hulse and Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The United States has long had a sterling credit report from ratings agencies because of the global preference for the dollar. But the latest deficit gridlock in Washington may have taken some of the luster off the reputation of the world's largest economy and its currency.
On Monday, the ratings firm Standard & Poor'slowered its outlook on the United States rating to negative. Although the agency did not actually lower its highest AAA rating on the country's debt, it was the first time since the S.& P. started assigning outlooks in 1989 that the country was given an outlook that was something other than stable.
While it had not been completely unexpected, the S.& P. decision shifted the nation's deficit debate out of the political arena -- at least for the day -- and thrust it on Wall Street. The action spooked investors, sending the three main stock indexes down more than 1 percent.
Treasury yields, or the interest rate that the country pays on its debt, spiked immediately after the announcement. Since the United States owes more than $9 trillion in outstanding debt to the public, even a one-tenth of a percent increase could potentially add billions to the deficit over time. 
A lower credit rating for the government could also end up hurting consumers in the pocketbook since Treasury yields also affect rates on consumer loans, particularly mortgages.
''If the U.S. gets downgraded, the cost of issuing new debt will definitely increase,'' said Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott. ''It is a question of how much.''
Mr. LaBas's firm estimated in a study this year that there could be a 6 to 6.5 percent decline in American stocks over three months as a result of any downgrade. Russell T. Price, a senior economist with Ameriprise Financial, said that any downgrade could also hurt perceptions of the dollar and perhaps trade.
''Even a small increase in the interest rate being charged on that debt could add significantly to the U.S. deficit problem,'' he said.
On Monday, the markets turned sharply lower in reaction to the news. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 140.24 points, or 1.14 percent lower, at 12,201.59. It was the Dow's biggest decline since March 16.
The broader S.& P. 500-stock index declined 14.54 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,305.14. The technology-heavy Nasdaq lost 29.27 points, or 1.06 percent, at 2,735.38.
Stocks also fell across the Asia-Pacific region early Tuesday, with the Nikkei 225 index in Japan down 1.5 percent by midmorning. Singapore's main index fell 0.6 percent and in Australia, the S.& P./ASX 200 index fell 1.3 percent.
In its decision, the Standard & Poor's ratings unit issued a strong warning to government leaders to agree on how to address the medium- and long-term budget challenges by 2013.
''More than two years after the beginning of the recent crisis, U.S. policy makers have still not agreed on how to reverse recent fiscal deterioration or address longer-term fiscal pressures,'' said Nikola G. Swann, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's. The firm said that there was a one in three chance that it could lower its long-term rating on the United States in two years.
The statement initially made investors in Treasury bonds nervous, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond as high as 3.45 percent. By the end of the day, the yield fell to 3.37 percent, down from 3.41 percent on Friday. The price of the 10-year bond rose 9/32, to 102 2/32.
Previously, on Jan. 14, the S.& P. and another major credit ratings agency, Moody's Investors Service, warned that the United States might tarnish its triple-A credit rating if its national debt kept growing. At that time, the Obama administration was warning that the government could reach its legal borrowing limit within a few months and urged Congress to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a default.
Administration officials played down the S.& P.'s assessment on Monday while reiterating Washington's determination to reach a compromise on the deficit.
Treasury officials ''believe S.& P.'s negative outlook underestimates the ability of America's leaders to come together to address the difficult fiscal challenges facing the nation,'' an assistant secretary for financial markets, Mary J. Miller, said in a statement.
Austan Goolsbee, chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV that President Obama in a recent speech had said that there would be actions taken to promote fiscal responsibility.
He said that S.& P.'s ''political judgment'' should not be given ''too much weight.''
Both President Obama and Republican lawmakers have suggested plans to cut the federal deficit by at least $4 trillion over the next 10 to 12 years, but by different methods. And Mr. Obama plans to take his message on the road this week, traveling to the West Coast to promote his proposal, which combines spending cuts and revenue increases.
The Republican blueprint championed by Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, includes cutting nonmilitary spending, and a politically charged proposal to fundamentally reconfigure Medicare.
''We face the most predictable economic crisis in our history -- a crisis driven by the explosive growth of government spending and debt,'' said Mr. Ryan in a statement.
Congressional Republicans quickly seized on the Standard & Poor's analysis as an argument for advancing the newly adopted House budget that would cut an estimated $5.8 trillion over a decade. They sought to increase the pressure on Democrats against increasing the federal debt limit without some significant new limits on federal spending.
''Serious reforms are needed to ensure America's fiscal health, and today S.& P. sent a wake-up call to those in Washington asking Congress to blindly increase the debt limit,'' said Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and House majority leader.
As Republicans claimed the report bolstered their case against increasing the debt limit without new spending limits, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, leader of the Democrats, said she read the findings as an indication that the two parties must move carefully and cooperatively to show a united front in trying to tackle the nation's fiscal woes.
''Both Democrats and Republicans must participate in the process initiated by President Obama last week to demonstrate our commitment to reducing our deficit through shared responsibility,'' she said.
With many lawmakers back home beginning a two-week recess, the S.& P. warning could weigh on some voters as Republicans try to sell their new plan.
Standard & Poor's did not take sides on any of the political proposals, saying that they were a good starting point. But it cautioned that ''we see the path to agreement as challenging because the gap between the parties remains wide.''
Analysts said that there were not many immediate implications to the S.& P.'s action. But over time, other ratings agencies could reconsider their recommendations on the United States' sovereign debt.
The S.& P. statement could spur the administration and lawmakers to find a way to reduce the nearly $1.5 trillion budget deficit and give the fiscal austerity debate a greater sense of urgency, said Capital Economics economists in a research note.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. Standard & Poor's said there was a one in three chance that it could lower its long-term debt rating on America in two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (B9) CHARTS: Debt Worries: Standard & Poor's lowered the long-term outlook for United States debt, which shook markets on Monday and could imperil stock market gains over the last 24 months. (Source: Bloomberg)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (64%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



439 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: Tornado Swarm Deals Death, but Also Miracles

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Kim Severson reported from Atlanta. Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta, Tarini Parti from Raleigh, N.C., and Joseph Berger from New York.

 BODY:
RALEIGH, N.C. -- The reality of the devastation of a storm that sent more than 200 tornadoes ripping across the South, killing at least 45 people and causing millions of dollars in damage, began to sink in Monday morning.
In North Carolina, where the storm killed at least 23 people and put hundreds in the hospital, federal and local emergency workers were fanning out to the areas hardest hit and residents were scrambling to figure out how to help their neighbors or, for the dozens who lost their homes, how to start over.
In the Raleigh area, the police kept residents from a mobile home park with about 200 homes where three young siblings were killed. In sections of this city of about 400,000, several major buildings were damaged and several schools and government offices were closed for the day. Traffic into downtown Raleigh was snarled.
In rural areas, downed cellphone towers and severed utility lines were likely to hamper clean-up efforts. 
The storm, which began Wednesday in Oklahoma and charged east for the rest of the week, brought winds as high as 165 miles per hour and spread challenging weather from New York to South Carolina.
Gov. Bev Perdue of North Carolina, who said she was nearly in tears touring damaged areas Sunday, said she had been in contact with President Obama and anticipated that a federal state of emergency would be declared by week's end.
Ms. Perdue said she met with the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Sunday and would continue to tour the state Monday.
''The tornados have left and things are brighter today in North Carolina,'' she told NBC's ''Today Show.'' The state, she said, would survive. ''We understand how to face adversity and suck it up.''
More than 90 tornadoes -- what one meteorologist described as a ''family'' of them -- hit the state on Saturday afternoon. At the Golden Corral in Sanford, N.C., a worker was washing kitchen equipment behind the restaurant when he spotted a giant black funnel-shaped cloud bearing down. He ran to his boss, Terri Rodriguez, who walked out the back door and, after dodging a piece of flying wood, saw a dark whirlwind thick with wood and metal only a couple of blocks away.
About 140 people were eating in her restaurant, many of them in front of the thick plate-glass windows that run the length of the place.
''All I could think is that I have to get them away from the glass because I knew it would just cut them in half,'' she said in an interview on Sunday. ''I thought, where can I put them? Then I yelled: 'Tornado! Everyone to my kitchen!' ''
People packed into the meat cooler and behind the stoves. Others jammed into the restrooms. Then they waited. After five minutes, Ms. Rodriguez said, the darkness lifted and she peeked out the back door.
The tornado, she said, had bounced up, skipped the Golden Corral and made a sharp turn, setting down on top of a Lowe's Home Improvement Center a few hundred feet away.
''I could see the roof was just gone and all of the Lowe's stuff flying up in the air,'' Ms. Rodriguez said.
The Lowe's store in Sanford, a town of about 29,000 in the center of the state, was essentially demolished. But an estimated 70 customers were saved when another fast-thinking manager herded customers and his staff into a windowless storeroom.
The storm killed at least two people in the Sanford area and injured several more, according to Sheriff Tracy Carter of Lee County.
Although April and May are the worst time for tornadoes in the South, this storm system, which had its roots in the Pacific Ocean, was unusual for its size and duration, officials said. The storm would calm itself a bit at night and then gain renewed strength with the day's heat, said Greg Carbin, warning coordination meteorologist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
It brought flash floods, tornadoes and thunderstorms laced with giant balls of hail to Oklahoma on Thursday, killing two elderly sisters, before moving east through Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, North and South Carolina and Virginia.
The effects from the storms could be felt as far as Pennsylvania, New Jersey and the New York City area on Saturday night, when furious wind-driven rains covered roadways and produced isolated flooding.
When the system hit North Carolina on Saturday night, it spawned a record 92 tornadoes in the state. At least 14 deaths were in Bertie and Hertford Counties, in a rural northeast corner of the state, and the economic toll there could be especially severe. Now is planting season in North Carolina's farm country, dominated by cotton, tobacco, peanuts, corn and soybeans.
''Some of these farmers may have lost everything they had,'' said Bob Etheridge, a former congressman who was recently appointed to lead North Carolina's economic recovery efforts. Many farmers do not insure their equipment, and stocks of seeds and fertilizer bought on credit have been ruined, Mr. Etheridege said.
''I think you're going to see some pain for years to come,'' he said. ''A lot of these big farmers may employee 75 to 100 people during the harvest season,'' so if they cannot plant their crops, the impact on jobs will continue through the summer.
The governor said she also planned to speak to federal officials about assistance to farmers who may need manpower to quickly replow and reseed, she said. ''This is the first major agriculture hit that North Carolina has ever had,'' Ms. Perdue said.
Cal Bryant, the editor of The Roanoke-Chowan News Herald, which serves a part of North Carolina that was most severely hit, said, ''Normally the storms that hit here are pretty severe but smaller in size.''
''Now they are thinking it may have been one big tornado. They're trying to find where it stopped, and they haven't got there yet.''
Mr. Bryant, who spent Sunday with survivors in Bertie County, said rescue crews were going house to house looking for dead or injured residents and assessing damage. At least 60 houses, some of them mobile homes, were destroyed, and he expected the count to go higher.
Scott Sharp, a meteorologist for the National Weather Service office in Raleigh, said the devastation was due to ''a family of tornadoes'' that were part of the same thunderstorm system, with one rotating updraft cropping up after another had dissipated.
Still, the storm was not as bad as something meteorologists call ''Super Tuesday,'' when a string of tornadoes in February 2008 claimed 56 lives, said Mr. Carbin of NOAA. But it was unusual in that all of the weather stemmed from one huge storm.
But for many of the states that lay in the path of this system, including North Carolina, which had not seen such severe weather since the early 1990s, it was a storm that will most likely takes months to recover from.
Ms. Perdue, like governors in three other Southern states, declared a state of emergency on Sunday. On Monday, the Federal Emergency Management Agency reported that it had 12 teams in North Carolina, one in Alabama and three in Mississippi.
In Raleigh, major avenues downtown were blocked by fallen trees. Buildings were flattened in at least eight areas of Wake County, said Sarah Williamson-Baker, a spokeswoman for the county.
Three siblings, who ranged in age from 2 to 5, were killed in a mobile home park in Raleigh when a tree fell on their home. The three were in a bathtub, according to a local news report.
The tornado seemed to make a direct cut through the area, Ms. Williamson-Baker said.
''There's many places where there's little left of buildings, and then in other places nearby, there's almost no damage,'' she said.
Elizabeth Strauch, 41, lives in the Cranberry Ridge subdivision in Wilson, N.C. Her house was destroyed. When she heard the tornado, she ran to a closet with her cat and some personal belongings.
''What I thought was a tree falling down on the house was my roof falling down and the attic falling through,'' she said. She opened the door of her closet, pushed back the debris and ran to her neighbors. The whole thing lasted about three minutes.
''I thought I was going to die,'' Ms. Strauch said. ''I was hysterical.''
Near Raleigh, dormitories and classrooms at Shaw University, the oldest historically black university in the South, were so damaged that classes were canceled for the rest of the semester.
''After an assessment by experts, I will determine if summer school can be held on campus or will be available only online,'' the university president, Irma McClaurin, said in a statement. ''I think we are blessed that despite tremendous structural damages to dormitories and the Willie Gary Student Union that not one single person (student, faculty, staff or community members) was injured. We can all give thanks for that.''
In Sanford, many were grateful, too. John Douglas, 42, a contractor, was inside a tractor supply store when the tornado ripped the roof from the building.
He and a friend jumped on top of his daughter Abby, 9, as part of the ceiling fell on top of them. He suffered a few minor scrapes and bruises, but they all walked away otherwise unhurt.
''Everything was flying around inside the store. You could see the sky through the roof,'' Mr. Douglas said. ''We just prayed to the Lord to help us through this.''
Around the parts of the Southern states that were hardest hit, volunteers began organizing food drives and fund-raisers. Many people were connecting through Facebook and Twitter, and others were simply showing up to see how they might help.
In Sanford, the Salvation Army thrift store opened its doors at 3 p.m. and two hours later had already accepted about 400 bags of clothes and household goods, said Derek Oley, 29, the manager. They will start supplying food to people Monday.
''This community is just so awesome right now,'' Mr. Oley said. ''People are just coming out from everywhere to help out.''
The National Weather service warned that parts of the Midwest should prepare for more severe weather on Tuesday, predicting possible strong tornados and large on Tuesday afternoon and evening in the Ozarks and the Mississippi and Ohio River Valleys.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joshua Dunlow, 6, rested Monday near his family's home in Askewville, N.C., while his parents sorted through their belongings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA D. DAVIS/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
A tornado moving through Colerain, N.C., on Saturday. The photographer took the picture shortly before taking cover in a closet under a staircase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD BURKETT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Molly, back in her own pasture Monday after being lifted away by Saturday's tornado. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN TAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) MAPS: Tornado Deaths: Saturday's tornadoes in North Carolina killed 11 people along a 10-mile stretch of sprawling peanut, tobacco and soybean fields between Askewville and Colerain. (MAPS FROM USDA FARM SERVICE AGENCY VIA GOOGLE EARTH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); TORNADOES (90%); RESTAURANTS (85%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); METEOROLOGY (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); TRAILER PARKS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



440 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Man With $20 Billion to Disburse Finds No Shortage of Claims or Critics

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ; Campbell Robertson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
From the numbers alone, you might think Kenneth R. Feinberg would be a popular guy.
Since taking over the $20 billion fund to compensate victims of the Gulf Coast oil spill in July, he has handed out $3.8 billion, with $2.6 billion in no-strings-attached emergency payments and $1.2 billion in final and interim payments. More than a half-million people and businesses have filed claims with the fund, and nearly 70 percent of the claims have been resolved through payment, request for more information or rejection.
But Mr. Feinberg has become the man the Gulf Coast loves to hate. Residents yell at him in meetings, coastal politicians and the news media accuse him of acting in bad faith, and plaintiffs' lawyers say he is working for BP. 
A federal judge has ruled that while Mr. Feinberg's work may benefit BP, his claims decisions are independent. Still, many who have dealt with the claims process complain that it is opaque at best, low-balls their compensation and varies payouts capriciously for neighbors in like circumstances.
''People are having any number of kinds of issues with the claims process,'' said Martha Bergmark, the president of the Mississippi Center for Justice, a nonprofit law firm that receives money from the fund to provide legal aid. ''It's getting invented on the fly here.''
Politicians and plaintiffs' lawyers decry as extortion Mr. Feinberg's quick-pay option, which provides thousands of dollars to those willing to sign away their right to sue without having to prove economic loss. The critics say the difficulties of the claims process all but force claimants into the quick-pay system.
Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, sent a scorching letter to Mr. Feinberg last month saying he was ''making empty promises to Louisianians'' citing the complaints of seven constituents who said they had not been paid, or paid enough.
Opposition to Mr. Feinberg in Alabama has flared, and The Press-Register of Mobile called last year for him to be fired, though the paper no longer pushes the point. ''When it became clear he wasn't going to be fired, we just continued to hold his feet to the fire,'' said Ricky R. Mathews, the paper's publisher, who calls the fund a ''very clumsy process.''
He added, ''I believe from the very beginning he completely underestimated how big this was going to be.''
Mr. Feinberg says the attacks are misguided, and in many cases, flat wrong. In response to Mr. Vitter, he wrote that the examples did not stand up to scrutiny. One, he wrote, submitted claims for emergency payments ''in an amount 2 1/2 times the business's total gross sales'' from its 2009 tax return; another submitted documentation ''consisting solely of a letter from her mother as the business owner,'' and several had filed multiple claims or offered little or no documentation. Yet another, he wrote, had submitted a business claim that included his wife's losses, though his submitted tax returns reported her occupation as ''housewife,'' and did not show ''any reference to her role, if any, in the business.'' That claim was for more than twice the man's previously reported fishing income.
In an interview, Mr. Feinberg was undaunted. ''I will not pay claims that can't be proven, that lack proof, that are not substantiated,'' he said. ''I won't do it!'' He admitted that ''there may be inconsistencies'' in a system of this size. ''But I think those inconsistencies are relatively rare,'' he added.
''One of the reasons your neighbor gets paid and you didn't might have something to do with human nature,'' he said. People in similar situations might approach the claims process with more proof or less, and higher or lower evaluations of their losses.
He said, ''Don't always believe everything you've heard from your next-door neighbor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenneth R. Feinberg
 At meetings like this one last spring in Mathews, La., to discuss payments to oil spill victims, the fund's administrator has faced angry residents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIA RENDLEMAN/THE HOUMA DAILY COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); POLITICS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BAD FAITH (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); JUDGES (69%); LEGAL AID (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); OIL SPILLS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



441 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1155 words

PERSON: William Donald Schaefer 

HEADLINE: William Schaefer, 89, Bulldozing Mayor Who Revitalized Ailing Baltimore, Dies

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
William Donald Schaefer, a political showman who captivated voters and infuriated critics for more than three decades as the mayor who rejuvenated decaying Baltimore and then as Maryland's governor and comptroller, died on Monday at a retirement home in Catonsville, Md. He was 89.
A former aide, Lainy LeBow-Sachs, confirmed the death, The Associated Press reported.
New York had its Fiorello H. La Guardia. Chicago had its Daleys. And Baltimore had William Donald Schaefer: the name on park benches, garbage trucks, office buildings, construction sites, horse races at Pimlico -- and on the psyche of Baltimoreans in the 1970s and '80s. It was a kind of anticlimax when he became governor: they called him the mayor of Maryland.
Mr. Schaefer, a Democrat who steamrolled his opponents with up to 94 percent of the ballots, had one of the longest runs in American politics. After 16 years as a city councilman, he won four terms as mayor, from 1971 to 1987; two terms as governor, from 1987 to 1995; and two terms as state comptroller, from 1999 to 2007. His defeat in a 2006 bid for re-election was his first in more than a half-century. 
''Bawlamer,'' as natives call it, was a seedy, shot-and-beer factory town when he became mayor. There had been riots in the late 1960s, and residents and businesses were leaving. Its 18th-century core was a shambles of rotting piers and dilapidated warehouses. Gritty row houses and run-down tenements lined the inner city streets. Neighborhoods ached with poverty, unemployment, drugs and crime.
His methods were unorthodox. He sold 500 abandoned buildings for $1 apiece to urban homesteaders and hundreds of commercial shells for $100 each to businessmen. He twisted bureaucratic arms to get development projects moving. He badgered government authorities for housing and transportation money, solicited private donations, lured new businesses with concessions and enlisted world-class architects.
He demolished and rebuilt whole neighborhoods. He had city crews salvage the lintels, fireplaces and marble from derelict buildings and sold them for restoration money. He pushed summer festivals and community theaters. He jawboned professional sports teams to stay put, or come to town. He drove around at night looking for potholes, trash, troublemakers and drug pushers, and got things done.
By the end of his tenure at City Hall, Mr. Schaefer was being hailed for transforming what was once the United States' eighth-largest city into a model of urban renaissance and national tourism. There were new businesses, parks, auditoriums, expressways and transit lines, a new skyline of hotels and office towers, a new convention center and a 28-story pentagonal World Trade Center designed by I. M. Pei.
The centerpiece was Mr. Schaefer's signature Harborplace, a glass waterfront pavilion of restaurants and shops by James Rouse, the developer of New York's South Street Seaport and Boston's Faneuil Hall Marketplace. It had cobblestone walks, a National Aquarium and, on the water, sailboats, a historic frigate, a vintage submarine and a Chesapeake Bay skipjack. It had 18 million visitors its first year, 1980-81.
The transformation was hardly complete. The city's economy and image improved, but critics said that the lives of many citizens had not, that schools had declined, and that poverty, crime, unemployment and drugs had not been subdued. The mayor was widely denigrated as a bully who favored business and promoted himself with clownish gimmicks. (When the aquarium was not finished on time, he jumped as promised into the seal pool wearing a striped Victorian swimsuit and clutching a rubber ducky.)
But defenders insisted his improvements were substantive and had brought a much-needed sense of pride. When he became governor in 1987, The Baltimore Sun editorialized that Mr. Schaefer had ''changed the way the city felt about itself.''
William Donald Schaefer was born in Baltimore on Nov. 2, 1921, the son of William Henry and Tululu Irene Skipper Schaefer. He attended public schools and graduated from Baltimore City College in 1939 and the University of Baltimore Law School in 1942. He joined the Army in World War II, became an officer and supervised hospitals in England and Europe.
He practiced real estate law in Baltimore after the war, and joined citizens' groups focused on housing and city planning. He was portly, with a long face and solemn eyes, and painfully shy as a young man. He never married and lived most of his life with his mother, until her death in 1983, in two plain Baltimore row houses. After he became governor at 65, his friend since childhood, Hilda Mae Snoops, served as his official hostess in the governor's mansion in Annapolis. She died in 1999.
After two unsuccessful races in the early 1950s, Mr. Schaefer finally won a seat on the City Council in 1955, and he became known as a tireless civic leader as he worked his way up to the council presidency. In a city of 900,000, where blacks were half the population and Democrats outnumbered Republicans 5 to 1, he easily won the mayoral election in 1971, and was soon embarked on his mission to resurrect Baltimore.
His re-election totals (''Vote for Baltimore'') in 1975, 1979 and 1983 all exceeded 85 percent. He won the governorship in 1986 with 82 percent of the vote, the biggest landslide ever in a contested statewide race in Maryland, and was re-elected in 1990 with 60 percent. In politics, he used all three of his names, and they were up everywhere, including Pimlico Race Course, where the annual William Donald Schaefer Handicap was inaugurated in 1994.
As governor, he overhauled the state's legal code and was credited with improving education, social programs, transportation and efforts to clean up pollution in Chesapeake Bay. He saw the completion of the publicly financed Oriole Park at Camden Yards in 1992, a project he had pushed as mayor. But he also ignited controversy by commuting the sentences of eight battered women who killed or assaulted their mates, and suggesting that contraceptives be given to women on welfare and vasectomies to men leaving prison.
Limited to two terms as governor, he joined a Baltimore law firm and held a chair named for him at the University of Maryland. In 1998, after three years out of politics, he won the comptroller's job. His two terms as chief financial officer were relatively unremarkable. But he was in the news for feuding with Gov. Parris N. Glendening, a fellow Democrat, and for criticizing immigrants who could not speak English, saying AIDS victims ''brought it on themselves,'' and ostentatiously ogling a woman at a public meeting.
''William Donald Schaefer: A Political Biography,'' by C. Fraser Smith, was published in 1999.
When he lost his re-election bid in 2006, Mr. Schaefer was asked how he would like to be remembered. ''There are two words,'' he said. '' 'He cared.' People mock me and make fun of it. But it's the truth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor William Donald Schaefer once promised that if Baltimore's aquarium was not finished on time, he would jump into the seal pool. It was not. He did.
 William Donald Schaefer at work in 1981 in Baltimore 1981. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTY KATZ/BALTIMOREPHOTOGRAPHER.COM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); SPORTS (70%); RIOTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); FESTIVALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



442 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. States the Obvious

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE, RICHARD BEALES and UNA GALANI

 BODY:
Standard & Poor's has taken its fair share of criticism in recent years. But at least it isn't too shy to state the much-needed obvious situation on America's debt.
S.& P.'s shift on Monday to a negative outlook on the country's AAA credit shouldn't come as any surprise. But it should provide a reality check.
S.& P. doubts that President Obama and Congressional Democrats and Republicans are capable of reaching a meaningful agreement to rein in deficits, which it believes could push the nation's debt load above 90 percent of gross domestic product by 2013. And even if they do reach agreement, there's nothing to stop lawmakers from reversing course in the future. 
Markets, which should be well acquainted with America's ugly fiscal situation, took the news on the chin. Stocks initially fell around 2 percent while the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond spiked as much as 0.11 of a percentage point. However brief, there's a chance such a jolt could help refocus the myopic obsession of many investors on short-term performance with the somewhat more distant but still real challenges.
Austan Goolsbee, a White House economic adviser, called S.& P.'s decision a political judgment. But the heart of the rating firm's reasoning is that without decisive action, America will soon look measurably sicker in financial terms than other AAA-rated countries and it will be increasingly difficult to justify its top rating.
Unfortunately, the Federal Reserve's current ultralow interest rates make doomsday predications seem abstract, even to supposedly rational market players. That's even more true inside the Beltway, where budget dogma on both sides of the aisle still persists instead of a pragmatic assessment of revenue and spending -- and the communication to voters of the hard realities -- that should be under way.
S.& P. and its peers would hate to cut America's rating. That would fracture the bedrock on which the debt world has rested for decades. But S.& P. is right to up the ante. Any lawmakers living in Washington's spendthrift past should perhaps heed the lyrics of ''Once Upon a Time,'' the song one participant reported hearing while waiting on hold for the credit rater's conference call: ''How we always laughed, as though tomorrow wasn't there.''
The 'Fair' Price for Oil
The rulers of Saudi Arabia have long thought they could tell what a ''fair'' price for oil should be. Before the unrest on its borders, the country repeated its long-held view that the figure was $70 to $80 a barrel.
A recent pledge for a huge increase in spending on everything from housing to the religious police, however, is pushing Saudi Arabia to its largest budget. No wonder it now thinks that the market is ''oversupplied,'' as Saudi's oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said this weekend. What's ''fair'' may prove more costly.
The kingdom will need an average oil price of at least $80 a barrel to balance its budget during 2011, according to various estimates. This is one of the highest break-even prices within the bloc of six Persian Gulf nations.
Supply disruptions in Libya, a country that produces a type of sweet crude that Saudi Arabia cannot easily replace, and the threat of similar problems erupting elsewhere, have pushed prices well above Saudi Arabia's needs, to around $120 a barrel for Brent crude and $110 for West Texas Intermediate crude.
It is not in Saudi Arabia's interests to keep prices so high that they threaten the global economy, irk Western allies and provide incentives for developing alternative fuels. But if higher spending becomes a new norm and the kingdom wants to avoid taking on new debt or eating into its foreign reserves, then it must adjust its view of what's fair.
The previous margin between the country's break-even requirements and its stated price target suggests a fair price closer to $90 to $100 a barrel. But even if spending comes down later, higher price expectations will be supported by another domestic factor: the country's explosive growth in domestic oil consumption.
Speculation has long swirled about the longevity of Saudi Arabia's reserves. Record spending and its own oil consumption, which amounts to about 15 percent of production by some estimates, suggest that domestic issues will probably force it to shift its consideration of what's ''fair'' to something closer to $100 a barrel. Importers should take note.
AGNES T. CRANE, RICHARD BEALES and UNA GALANI
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said that the oil market is ''oversupplied.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAYEZ NURELDINE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



443 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Madison Avenue Turns Toward the Entrepreneurial

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
MADISON AVENUE will never be confused with Silicon Alley, much less Silicon Valley. But increasingly, agencies are trying to channel their inner entrepreneurs by pursuing ventures outside the realm of traditional advertising tasks.
Some agencies are opening units aimed at selling products to consumers. Others are acting like venture capital firms, offering seed money to start-ups in fields like technology. Still other agencies are taking stakes in client companies and sharing in the revenue of merchandise sales.
The trend has been going on for some time, led by smaller, newer agencies along with some agencies based in London, where unconventional behavior has long been prized. Now it is expanding to larger, more established outfits like Horizon Media, the biggest independent media agency. 
Horizon is forming a subsidiary, appropriately named New Horizons, that is investing in fledgling consumer-product companies. The initial investment is in Frederique's Choice, an online business specializing in flowers that was founded by the Dutch model Frederique van der Wal. Two additional investments are being considered.
New Horizons is taking what Bill Koenigsberg, president and chief executive at Horizon in New York, described as a significant minority stake in Frederique's Choice, and Horizon will handle its marketing and media services.
''I'm an entrepreneur,'' said Mr. Koenigsberg, who founded Horizon in 1989, ''and the entrepreneur in me is always thinking about how to use the assets of the company.''
Ms. van der Wal said: ''I know how key media and advertising are in my business. Bill and his team have experience with many different companies. Blending our strengths together will make this a success.''
New Horizons will complement, not supplant or distract from, Horizon's mainstay operations, Mr. Koenigsberg said, ''because of the media involvement we'll have'' with the companies in which the unit will invest.
''It doesn't take our eye off the ball,'' he added. ''If anything, it makes us smarter.''
That sentiment was echoed by Edward Brojerdi, co-chief creative officer at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners in New York, a unit of MDC Partners.
''In a time of start-up communities and venture capital buzz, it gives us a chance to walk the walk,'' Mr. Brojerdi said, and ''find out what our creative output is worth out on the street, outside the traditional agency model.''
Last year, Mr. Brojerdi started a boutique division of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal called Spies and Assassins, specializing in developing ''our own intellectual property and marketing it directly to consumers,'' he said.
There have been more than 50,000 downloads of the division's first product, Mr. Brojerdi said, a free mobile application named Twit Hit. The next product, an animated game for the iPad named Monster Maker, is to cost about $3.99, he added, and be followed by ancillary merchandise like coloring books, toys and stickers.
''This allows us to get learnings on research-and-development and monetization,'' Mr. Brojerdi said, adding that at least two additional products with price tags -- a puzzle game and an iPad app aimed at creative employees at agencies -- are in the pipeline.
McKinney, an agency in Durham, N.C., undertook an initiative last year known as the McKinney Ten Percent, modeled after technology companies like Google that let employees devote part of their work day to personal, entrepreneurial pursuits.
''It's an itch that needed to be scratched,'' said Jim Russell, partner and director for digital strategy at McKinney. ''If there's not an entrepreneurial spirit, an understanding that employees need to play and experiment, it becomes a very static environment.''
''Instead of thinking and talking about what's next and what's new, it's 'construct and do,' '' he added. ''When an idea has potential and promise, we put resources against it.''
The first result of the initiative is a program that aggregates comments on Twitter about related subjects. The initial version, called Crows Nest, is online at crowwwsnest.com, offering the top 10 links from the Twitter posts of ''the 250 most influential tweeters in advertising, design and technology,'' Mr. Russell said, updated every 15 minutes.
The program is also being used by a McKinney client, the CenturyLink Business unit of CenturyLink. On Monday, CenturyLink Business began offering its customers Trend IT, an aggregation of Twitter links on the subject of information technology. It can be found online at trendittool.com.
''I think it's a revolution,'' said Cindy Humphrey, vice president for product and marketing at CenturyLink Business in Denver, because McKinney ''is looking beyond me as a client and into my client base and what they need.''
At the same time, Ms. Humphrey said, ''I see using technology to gather information as part of advertising, so I don't see this as separate'' from the more traditional services that McKinney provides.
Mr. Russell would not argue.
''I'm absolutely not saying the traditional craft of making ads that cause consumer attachment to a brand is ever going away,'' Mr. Russell said. ''But you need to have a wider definition; we just need to open our minds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Horizon Media chief Bill Koenigsberg and Frederique van der Wal are starting an online business specializing in flowers. Monster Maker is an animated game for the iPad that was developed by Spies and Assassins, a boutique unit of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG KESSLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%)

COMPANY: MDC PARTNERS INC (52%)

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (52%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



444 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Slow Payers Hinder Trade In Europe

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY and STEPHEN CASTLE; Suzanne Daley reported from Zaragoza, Spain, and Stephen Castle from Brussels. Rachel Chaundler contributed reporting from Zaragoza.

 BODY:
ZARAGOZA, SPAIN -- In 2001, an agricultural co-op here was supplying truckloads of wheat to an Italian pasta maker. At first, no one at the Spanish co-op, Arento, was much alarmed when the pasta factory in Milan fell behind in its payments.
The co-op did not cut off the credit until the pasta company owed 1 million, or more than $1.4 million today, never realizing how hard it might be to collect a debt in another country in the European Union. But now, a decade later, having spent years in the courts and tens of thousands of euros on legal bills, Arento has recovered only half of what was owed.
''We came face to face with the Italian legal system,'' said Luis Navarro Olivares, Arento's director general. ''The trips to Milan were Kafkaesque. Really, Italy is too far away on a cultural level, a legal level and an administrative level.'' 
In theory, the European Union is one gigantic economic zone of about 500 million consumers all integrated into the world's biggest trading bloc. But the ideal is still far ahead of the reality, particularly for businesses that end up trying to collect debts across the Union's many borders. There are still 27 different national legal systems at work in the bloc, each with its own procedures for handling claims, property attachment and bankruptcies.
European officials say at least 55 billion a year in debt is simply being written off, much of it because businesses find it too daunting to press expensive, confusing lawsuits in foreign countries.
Officials and business leaders say they believe that debt collection problems are a profound deterrent to commerce within the European Union and one of the reasons that job creation and wealth generation falls consistently behind the United States, where pursuing debts across state lines is a comparatively easy task.
With much of Europe still caught in an economic slump and several countries weighing down the bloc's growth prospects because of huge sovereign debt problems of their own, E.U. officials are starting to circulate proposals for fixing this comparatively simple problem, in hopes of yielding a quick, cost-free stimulus to Europe's financial health.
Debt collection is just one example of the shortcomings of a market which, for legal, linguistic and cultural issues, rarely functions as a single space. Professional qualifications in one country often are not recognized in another, for example, and local business regulations frequently make it hard for Europeans to set up shop in another E.U. country.
A more effective single market, the Union officials say, could generate 60 billion to 140 billion in additional trade -- the equivalent of an additional 0.6 percent to 1.5 percent of the bloc's gross domestic product.
But individual E.U. countries still jealously guard the right to control many regulations covering business, and to operate independent civil and commercial legal systems.
Valle Garcia de Novales, a lawyer here in Zaragoza who specializes in international commerce, tells her clients that any debt of less than 100,000 is not even worth pursuing in court.
''You let it go because it is just too costly,'' she said.
What is worse, many companies have been so discouraged that they have given up on doing business across borders. Meanwhile, fewer than 10 percent of European consumers buy anything from a Web site outside their home country.
In an effort to improve the situation, the European Commission, the bloc's executive arm in Brussels, is working on a series of proposals to improve the single market. They include 12 priority changes to help reinvigorate the single market, from an agreement to recognize one another's educational qualifications to an E.U.-wide system for registering patents.
This year, it is expected to propose a standardized Europe-wide system to freeze the amount of money owed to a company in the debtor's bank account. That would prevent it from being moved to another country -- often as easy as a mouse click -- while providing an incentive to settle the claim quickly.
''I want to ensure that companies feel confident when they do business outside their home markets,'' said Viviane Reding, the E.U. commissioner for justice. ''Trust is the currency of our single market. Businesses have to know that they can get their money back.''
Fewer than 3 in 10 companies in the European Union now do business across national borders, according to one E.U. survey. And just 8 percent of Europe's smaller companies do business outside their home country, according to another E.U. report.
''It's a huge impediment,'' said Tina Sommer, president of the European Small Business Alliance, which claims about a million members. ''People are afraid. They don't know how to go about this in terms of debt recovery or contract law.''
At Arento, Mr. Navarro became director general a decade ago, just as the farm co-op was to make a claim in an unfamiliar legal system, in a language he did not understand. He soon concluded that the co-op's business strategies had to change. Ten years ago, the co-op exported 50 percent of its goods. Today, all its sales are within Spain's borders.
''The debt endangered the survival of our company,'' Mr. Navarro said. ''We didn't get any money for three years.''
Companies doing business across borders have several safety mechanisms to employ. They can get insurance, a letter of credit or simply demand cash upfront. But each is costly, in its own way. And slip-ups are easy. Mr. Navarro's co-op, for instance, did not inform the insurance company fast enough to make a claim, partly because it did not understand the terms of the policy.
Experts point out, too, that there are huge differences among E.U. countries. Pressing a claim in German courts is a far cry from trying to get satisfaction in Bulgaria or Romania, a notion that made several Spanish lawyers roll their eyes.
Lourdes Lebrero, the financial director of Matilsa, a small family-owned company that makes aerial work platforms here, insisted on a cash deposit when an order came in from Romania. But the letter sent as proof of transfer turned out to be a forgery. A friend of a friend who was making a trip to Romania tried to look into collecting the debt, but came back convinced it was hopeless.
Indeed, many business leaders remain skeptical that the European Union can end debt collection problems, let alone open up a new world of cross-border trade.
''I don't think you can legislate that easily,'' said Ms. Sommer, the small-business alliance president.
Most companies she represents, Ms. Sommer said, refuse to sell abroad unless they get payment or a bank guarantee upfront.
''Safety is everything to a small company,'' she said.
The recent economic downturn seems only to have made the problem worse. Emili-Xavier Barba i Ballester, the director of Acebsa, a Spanish copper company outside of Girona, has been simultaneously struggling with two debt collection problems after years in which such issues rarely came up.
One customer was an Italian company that had gone bankrupt, and Mr. Barba i Ballester said he found himself in courts making agreements he hardly understood and feeling that Italian creditors had a leg up over Acebsa on getting their money back.
The second customer, who reneged on an agreement to buy copper at a certain price, decided not to pay his previous invoices when Acebsa pressed the issue. Even finding a lawyer, Mr. Barba i Ballester said, was difficult.
''You're at a total disadvantage,'' he said. ''They know you will be a client just this one time. So, the fees are sky high.''
Stephen Castle reported from Brussels. Rachel Chaundler contributed reporting from Zaragoza.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lourdes Lebrero, top, financial director of Matilsa, a Spanish company that makes elevated work platforms, ran into trouble collecting a debt in Romania. Emili-Xavier Barba i Ballester, above, director of the Spanish copper firm Acebsa, ran into similar problems in Italy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTA RAMONEDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASTA & NOODLE MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (89%); PASTA & NOODLES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARAGON, SPAIN (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ITALY (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ROMANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



445 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank's Las Vegas Bet

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS - The names of the biggest players in gambling - Wynn, Caesars, MGM - dominate the neon-drenched skyline of the Las Vegas Strip.
But the owner of the most expensive casino ever built in this hedonistic city, Deutsche Bank, is not announcing its arrival in lights.
Even before that casino, the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas, opened in December, the German financial company was planning its exit strategy from a $4 billion investment that could take years, if not decades, to recoup.
''There has to be pressure on Frankfurt to do something,'' said Bill Lerner, an analyst with the research firm the Union Gaming Group. ''They are a bank, and I don't think they have any interest in running a casino.'' 
Deutsche Bank spared no expense on the Cosmopolitan, whose casino floor is dominated by a three-story glass chandelier that encompasses a cocktail bar. Guests rave about the oversize luxury hotel rooms with wrap-around terraces, which are often sold out. And management has lured popular restaurateurs and retailers.
The Cosmopolitan is missing just one major component: a deep base of gamblers. It is betting on a relatively young demographic, a challenging crowd that usually prefers partying. On a recent Saturday night, the casino was almost empty as visitors flocked up one flight to the Marquee nightclub, where one inebriated partygoer threw up in line.
The investment is also putting Deutsche Bank at odds with its own clients. In 2009, it hired the general manager at Caesars Palace to run the Cosmopolitan - a move that upset the parent company, Caesars Entertainment, a crucial customer of Deutsche, according to people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to speak publicly.
While big banks bristle at comparisons to casinos, big banks - by choice and by circumstance - have become a force in Las Vegas and other gambling hot spots. Goldman Sachs acquired the Stratosphere in 2008 for roughly $1 billion. The bond powerhouse Cantor Fitzgerald runs the sports books at the Tropicana and other locales. Until recently, Credit Suisse owned a stake in the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino.
But few companies have as much riding on the industry as Deutsche Bank.
The bank reluctantly inherited the Cosmopolitan in 2008, just as the local and national economy began to crumble. After running into cash-flow problems, Bruce Eichner, then the owner of the casino and a developer mainly known for high-end residential properties in New York and South Beach, defaulted on his $768 million construction loan from Deutsche Bank. The lender foreclosed on Mr. Eichner and took control of the property - one of the first signs that the city was headed for hard times.
''It's a story that's closely linked to that of Las Vegas's fortunes,'' said Anthony Curtis, a former professional gambler who now runs the Web site Las Vegas Advisor.
Many big lenders and opportunistic investors ended up owning troubled, half-built properties in recent years. Some walked away, like Morgan Stanley, which took a $1 billion write-off on the Revel in Atlantic City. Others decided to wait out the economic downturn. The billionaire Carl C. Icahn, who picked up the unfinished Fontainebleau resort in Las Vegas in bankruptcy for $156 million in 2009, still has not restarted construction on it.
In contrast, Deutsche Bank doubled down on the Cosmopolitan, opting to go it alone after failing to find a partner. Almost immediately, the bank scrapped Mr. Eichner's vision for the Cosmopolitan, which was originally planned as a modern residential building with 28-foot robots playing guitars in the lobby area. The bank also provided the project with a low-interest loan, potentially making Deutsche liable for roughly $4 billion.
Deutsche Bank soon recruited a high-powered management team, led by John Unwin, the former Caesars executive. The Cosmopolitan, say rivals who have lost staff, is offering pay packages 30 percent higher than the industry standard. Mr. Unwin collected $1.8 million in 2010, including a $1 million bonus.
After three years and an enormous financial commitment, the Cosmopolitan opened late last year to favorable reviews, said Mr. Curtis. Many of the hotel rooms, which are retrofitted condos from the housing bubble era, come equipped with kitchens and terraces that overlook Bellagio's famous water show. Room rates - which can top $300 a night - are among the most expensive in Las Vegas, and the property is often filled to capacity.
The Cosmopolitan has also attracted a distinctive lineup of retailers and restaurants, many of which are new to the local scene. The trendy British clothing line AllSaints chose the casino for its first Las Vegas shop. The complex also has branches of top restaurants like Jaleo, the tapas restaurant by the Spanish chef Jose Andres, and Blue Ribbon Sushi. The Cosmopolitan is also home to Marquee, a popular outpost of a New York City hot spot.
''In a sea of sameness, we are trying to stand out,'' said Mr. Unwin.
But the young clientele attracted to the Cosmopolitan is a notoriously fickle group. While they willingly spend on food and drinks, they are less likely to drop thousands on roulette or poker - typically the largest source of industry profits. Rivals like Wynn Resorts, the Palms, and Hard Rock Casino have had varied results tapping into this demographic. The management at Cosmopolitan says its target audience is the ''curious class,'' well-traveled people who are receptive to different concepts.
The demographic cuts both ways, said David B. Katz, a gambling industry analyst at the brokerage firm Jeffries & Company. ''The young vibe can be attractive from a volume perspective, and it can become the place to be on the Strip,'' he said. ''The rub is that demographic profile isn't the most affluent and most predisposed to spending, inside and out of the casino. People that are 40 years old and older simply have more money.''
Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank also has to contend with a tricky plot of land. The Cosmopolitan sits on a mere 8.7 acres, compared with 120.5 acres at the neighboring Bellagio, the resort modeled after an Italian palazzo. So Deutsche Bank had to build up rather than out, drawing comparisons to a New York City brownstone. The casino occupies the first floor, while restaurants, retailers and a common area with a pool table take up the next two. It is a challenging design, as it forces customers to leave the casino floor for food and shopping.
All that has left Deutsche Bank struggling to attract a critical mass of gamblers. At most Las Vegas properties, the casinos typically represent half of revenue, with the balance coming from lodging, retail and the like. It is less at the Cosmopolitan, according to industry analysts.
''When you build a $4 billion casino in the middle of the Strip, it is important to have a base of gamblers,'' said Mr. Lerner of Union Gaming, who previously covered the industry for Deutsche Bank. ''They have zip.''
Mr. Unwin, who indicated that the restaurants and retail were at or above targets, would say of gambling only that the ''trajectory is good.''
To help build the casino profits, Mr. Unwin cut a deal with Marriott to gain access to its large database of travelers. While the list does not specifically focus on gamblers, it does give the hotel a wider group to whom it can market services.
''As a financial investor in the project, we are convinced that the executive management team will built an outstanding business, and thereby serve our shareholders well,'' said John T. Gallagher, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank.
But behind the scenes, executives at Deutsche Bank have balked at some aspects of casino ownership. The Cosmopolitan created a risque advertising campaign featuring farm animals and proclaiming that the casino had ''just the right amount of wrong.'' But senior officials in Germany felt that the commercials were too ''racy for a bank,'' said a former Deutsche staffer who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Despite Deutsche's concerns, the Cosmopolitan ran the ads.
The bank's senior management has also kept a low profile in Las Vegas. Its chief executive, Josef Ackermann, has visited the Cosmopolitan only twice in recent years. He was also notably absent from the opening party, a $12 million affair on New Year's Eve with A-list appearances by Beyonce, Coldplay and Jay-Z.
Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank is years - if not decades - away from breaking even on the Cosmopolitan, say analysts, given the weak cash flow and heavy debt load. The resort, which was open for just 17 days in 2010, logged a loss of $139.5 million for the year.
''With the world coming to an end in 2008, I wouldn't have done that project if someone had a gun to my head,'' said Mr. Lerner. ''I suspect they will look for a liquidity event over a short period of time.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas is the most expensive casino ever built in the city. It sits on the Las Vegas Strip, below. (B1)
 Deutsche Bank acquired the Cosmopolitan in 2008 after its owner defaulted on a $768 million construction loan from the bank. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); FORECLOSURE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); THEME RESTAURANTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); RETAILERS (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (64%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); HARD ROCK HOTEL HOLDINGS LLC (52%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); CZR (NASDAQ) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (97%) NEVADA, USA (97%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



446 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: 2 Pulitzers for Times, 2 for Los Angeles Times, and First for Online-Only Series

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The New York Times won Pulitzer Prizes on Monday for its economics commentary and its reporting on Russia, while The Los Angeles Times received the coveted public service Pulitzer and the award for feature photography.
The prizes, which are administered by Columbia University, went to a variety of newspapers and were not concentrated in the hands of one or two publications, as has been the case in recent years.
And for the first time, a prize was awarded to reporting that did not appear in print: ProPublica's online series ''The Wall Street Money Machine,'' which won for national reporting. 
The awards this year included other notable firsts. The Wall Street Journal won its only Pulitzer since Rupert Murdoch bought the paper in 2007. It was for Joseph Rago's editorial writing on the debate over health care legislation. The Journal received the awards for international reporting and public service in 2007.
Carol Guzy, a photographer from The Washington Post, became the first journalist to win four Pulitzer Prizes. Ms. Guzy shared the award for breaking news photography with two other Post photographers, Nikki Kahn and Ricky Carioti, who were cited for their depiction of the devastation from the earthquake in Haiti.
For the first time, the Pulitzer board, which decides on the winners after juries in each category make their recommendations, did not award a prize for local reporting of breaking news. This was despite a number of dramatic breaking news events last year, including the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, which media organizations mobilized considerable resources to cover.
The Pulitzer board did, however, cite four newspapers as finalists in the category: The Chicago Tribune, The Tennessean of Nashville, and The Miami Herald and El Nuevo Herald, which were considered a joint entrant for their coverage of the Haiti earthquake.
Pulitzer Prizes were awarded in 13 journalism categories and 7 arts categories.
The prize for fiction went to Jennifer Egan for ''A Visit From the Goon Squad.'' Bruce Norris won the award for drama for his play ''Clybourne Park.'' The history prize went to Eric Foner for ''The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery.'' Ron Chernow won in the biography category for ''Washington: A Life.'' ''Madame White Snake,'' by Zhou Long, won for music.
Kay Ryan took the prize for poetry for ''The Best of It: New and Selected Poems.'' The award for general nonfiction was awarded to Siddhartha Mukherjee for ''The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer.''
In the public service category for journalism, The Los Angeles Times won for its coverage of city officials in Bell, Calif., who enriched themselves with enormous pay packages. The articles made Bell infamous and tapped into the anti-government ferment that hit its height last summer.
The paper's editor, Russ Stanton, called the reporting ''accountability journalism at its best.''
David Leonhardt of The New York Times won in the commentary category for what the committee said was ''his graceful penetration of America's complicated economic questions.'' The Times's Clifford J. Levy and Ellen Barry won the prize for international reporting for ''their dogged reporting that put a human face on the faltering justice system in Russia, remarkably influencing the discussion inside the country.''
Corporate malfeasance was a theme in the awards this year. ProPublica's winning series, by Jesse Eisinger and Jake Bernstein, exposed questionable business practices that helped contribute to the country's economic meltdown. The award for investigative reporting went to Paige St. John of The Sarasota Herald-Tribune for exposing how home owners in Florida were left vulnerable by insurance companies that were on shaky financial footing.
In the feature writing category, Amy Ellis Nutt of The Star-Ledger in Newark won for what the board said was her ''deeply probing story'' on the mysterious sinking of a scallop fishing vessel, the Lady Mary. Six men drowned.
Not all the prizes involved tragedies. Journalists from The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel won for their reporting on how doctors worked to save a young boy who was struck with a mysterious disease that attacked his intestine.
The award for criticism went to Sebastian Smee, the art critic for The Boston Globe. The Chicago Sun-Times journalists Frank Main, Mark Konkol and John J. Kim won for local reporting for their ''immersive documentation of violence in Chicago neighborhoods.'' Mike Keefe of The Denver Post won for his cartoons that employed ''a loose, expressive style to send strong, witty messages.''
Online Correction: April 18, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction as Eagan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (88%); WRITERS (78%); POETRY (73%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); HEALTH CARE LAW (53%); OIL SPILLS (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (96%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (91%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (91%); WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (69%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (69%) HAITI (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



447 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
U.S. AND AFGHANISTAN
DISCUSS ROLE AFTER PULLOUT
Afghanistan and the United States are in the midst of negotiating what they are calling a Strategic Partnership Declaration for beyond 2014. Afghan officials have expressed concern that the negotiations could scuttle peace talks with the Taliban, now in their early stages, because the insurgents have insisted that foreign forces must leave the country before they will deal. PAGE A4
RADIATION STYMIES CLEANUP 
Robots deployed inside two reactors at the Japanese nuclear plant overrun by last month's devastating tsunami have detected radiation levels too high for workers to enter, posing immediate challenges for a new plan to bring the ravaged complex under control by year's end. PAGE A6
National
ONLINE POKER HAS SETBACK,
DESPITE LOBBYING
When the Justice Department delivered an unexpected thunderbolt to a huge lobbying campaign by indicting top executives at several Internet poker companies, accusing them of fraud and money laundering, it took on a politically powerful industry that for a while seemed as if it might transform gambling around the world. PAGE A16
PUSHING PRIVATE SPACE FLIGHT
NASA said that it was distributing $269 million to four companies to develop spacecraft to take astronauts to orbit in the future. PAGE A13
New York
AT A FEDERAL MOB TRIAL,
FOOD IS A RECURRING THEME
A mob trial in federal court in Brooklyn provides the witness-stand debut of the first official boss of one of New York's five Mafia families to testify for the government. But it sometimes seems like a menu is required just to keep track of all of the culinary allusions being made. PAGE A20
AN IDEOLOGICAL ODDITY
Representative Scott Garrett, a Republican from the forested regions of northern New Jersey, has long stood out among the moderates and liberals of both parties in the state's Congressional delegation. A few years ago, he was considered outside the mainstream of even his own party. Now, he is the mainstream. PAGE A19
Business
EUROPE FIRMS STILL STRUGGLE
TO COLLECT ACROSS BORDERS
In theory, the European Union is one gigantic economic zone of 500 million consumers, all integrated into the world's biggest trading bloc. But the ideal is far ahead of the reality, particularly for businesses that try to collect debts across Europe's many borders. PAGE B1
A BANK'S LAS VEGAS BET
Deutsche Bank spared no expense on the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas, the most expensive casino ever built in that city. But it is missing a deep base of gamblers, which is putting Deutsche Bank at odds with its clients. PAGE B1
Sports
REPORT SPREADS FAULT
IN DEATH AT NOTRE DAME
High wind, a lack of current weather information and a hydraulic lift susceptible to tipping each contributed to the death of a student video trainer at Notre Dame in October, the university said after a six-month investigation. The report said no one person was responsible for the death of the student, 20-year-old Declan Sullivan, who was filming football practice from a lift extended to 40 feet in high wind on Oct. 27 when it toppled. PAGE B12
Arts
DYNAMIC DRAMA
WITH LIMITED MEANS
Since its inception in 2005, the Belarus Free Theater, which is performing three plays in repertory at La MaMa, has carved an artistic identity and put its own existence in jeopardy by repeatedly making forbidden noise in defiant and imaginative style. PAGE C1
Science Times
IN AN 80-YEAR STUDY,
GOOD NEWS FOR THE DILIGENT
Cheerfulness, optimism, extroversion and sociability may make life more enjoyable, but they won't necessarily extend it, Howard S. Friedman and Leslie R. Martin found in ''The Longevity Project,'' a new book focused on an aging study that covered eight decades. The key traits are prudence and persistence. Katherine Bouton, Books on Science. PAGE D3
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
JOE NOCERA PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); POKER (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); TALIBAN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); GAMING (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); LITIGATION (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); WITNESSES (70%); TESTIMONY (70%); INDICTMENTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LIBERALISM (67%); WEATHER (62%); EUROPEAN UNION (61%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (51%); DBK (FRA) (51%); DBK (BIT) (51%); DBETN (JSE) (51%); DBA (ASX) (51%); DB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

PERSON: SCOTT GARRETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



448 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: An Oyster on the Seder Plate?

BYLINE: By PAUL GREENBERG. 
Paul Greenberg is the author of ''Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food.''

 BODY:
LAST night I put an oyster on my Seder plate.
While I didn't particularly want to put something traif atop that most kosher of dishes, this Passover falls on the first anniversary of the Deepwater Horizon blowout in the Gulf of Mexico. And since BP, the leaseholder of the failed well, seems intent with its new television ads on making us forget about the spill, I felt that something drastic was in order to help us remember. Combining the memorial powers of the Seder plate with the canary-in-the-coal-mine nature of the oyster seemed a good way to keep the disaster -- and BP's promises to clean up its mess -- in mind.
This past March I spent a week in Louisiana's bays and bayous. All over the region I encountered oyster dredges full of dead, empty shells and broken oystermen with equally empty pockets. Many of the oystermen I interviewed reported that 80 percent of their beds had been killed. 
Ecologically speaking, this is huge: a single oyster can filter 40 gallons of water a day, and the millions of oysters in Louisiana's waters are one of the things that make the gulf work as an ecosystem.
True, many oysters died not from the oil directly, but rather from the consequences of a desperate attempt to counter the spill's effects. As oil rushed shoreward last spring, Louisiana's coastal coordinator opened gates along the Mississippi River and released millions of gallons of freshwater, hoping the surge would push the oil away. It's hard to say whether this worked; what it definitely did do was make some coastal waters too fresh for oysters to survive. Many beds were decimated. It will take years for them to recover.
Freshwater wasn't the only thing dumped into gulf waters to mitigate the spill: more than 1.8 million gallons of Corexit, a chemical used to break up oil slicks, transformed the floating, possibly recoverable oil into an invisible angel of death that sank and claimed not just the first born but perhaps the first million born of many gulf creatures -- a considerable blow to what is arguably America's most important fish nursery.
Indeed, oysters are just the beginning. The delayed effects of oil and Corexit will likely be seen for years. In 2012 the number of blue crabs -- which many people associate with the Chesapeake Bay but in fact often come from the gulf -- may significantly drop thanks to the spill. In 2013, the redfish that Paul Prudhomme famously blackened may not be there for fishermen and diners to enjoy. In 2017 we could see a considerable drop in the population of bluefin tuna, the missing adult fish having been killed as fragile larvae in 2010.
And even if by some miracle there is no significant decline in the gulf's sea life, its harvest might still suffer from a sullied reputation. In a recent poll of 18 national restaurant chains released by Greater New Orleans Inc., an economic development organization, found that only 19 percent of those restaurants' customers held a favorable view of gulf seafood in 2010, compared with 75 percent in 2004.
Oystermen weren't the only ones affected by the spill, of course. But while BP has compensated waiters and hairdressers for work lost during last summer's ruined tourist season, most oystermen told me that aside from an emergency payment last fall, they have yet to see compensation that approaches the value of their lost oysters.
Fortunately for BP, it can take decades for the aftereffects of an event of this scale to appear. And it will be a long time before the Natural Resources Damage Assessment, put in place to determine BP's true liability, will be made fully public with any sort of conclusion about the company's liability.
Although I put an oyster on the Seder plate, you might want to find a less controversial way to mark the disaster. If you're having a second Seder tonight and want a non-traif symbol, consider putting a small dish of oil next to your glass of wine. After you've dipped your finger in your wine to count out the 10 plagues that brought down Egypt's tyrannical pharaoh, dip your finger in the oil and dab out an 11th plague.
In so doing remember that in A.D. 2010, the Jewish year 5770, humanity damaged a valuable, nourishing ecosystem to maintain the tyranny of oil. Until we throw off that tyranny, we will mark many more plagues in the years to come.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LOGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); PASSOVER (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); FISHES (86%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (74%); COASTAL AREAS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



449 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Portugal's Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Portugal's Unnecessary Bailout'' (Op-Ed, April 13):
Robert M. Fishman argues that unlike the situations that led to the bailouts for Greece and Ireland, there is not a genuine underlying economic crisis in Portugal. The problems that have led it to request assistance from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund are not, he says, of its own making; rather, they are a result of unfair and arbitrary pressure from bond traders, speculators and credit rating agencies that have downgraded the country's debt and driven it into the arms of the E.U. and I.M.F. 
In fact, there is, and has been for years, a genuine economic crisis in Portugal. In fiscal policy, there has been a recurring imbalance between spending and revenues. Portugal was the first member of the euro area to be subjected to a formal decision by the E.U. finance ministers that an ''excessive deficit'' existed, and it is the only member that has been found to have an ''excessive deficit'' three times.
No less important are the long-term structural imbalances in the economy. Portugal has had a large trade deficit with the rest of the E.U. every year since 1999. Likewise, it has had large current account deficits every year; since 2002, its current account deficit has averaged almost 10 percent of gross domestic product.
These problems were not created by the bond traders, speculators and credit rating agencies. They were created by the fiscal and economic policies carried out by Portuguese governments, both of the left and the right, over many years. The only surprise is that the traders, speculators and credit rating agencies ignored them for so long.
DAVID R. CAMERON New Haven, April 14, 2011
The writer is a professor of political science at Yale and the director of the Yale Program in European Union Studies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); EURO (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); BONDS (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%) CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) EUROPE (93%); PORTUGAL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GREECE (88%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



450 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BOOKS ON SCIENCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Eighty Years Along, a Longevity Study Still Has Ground to Cover

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BOUTON

 BODY:
After reading ''The Longevity Project,'' I took an unscientific survey of friends and relatives asking them what personality characteristic they thought was most associated with long life. Several said ''optimism,'' followed by ''equanimity,'' ''happiness,'' ''a good marriage,'' ''the ability to handle stress.'' One offered, jokingly, ''good table manners.''
In fact, ''good table manners'' is closest to the correct answer. Cheerfulness, optimism, extroversion and sociability may make life more enjoyable, but they won't necessarily extend it, Howard S. Friedman and Leslie R. Martin found in a study that covered eight decades. The key traits are prudence and persistence. ''The findings clearly revealed that the best childhood personality predictor of longevity was conscientiousness,'' they write, ''the qualities of a prudent, persistent, well-organized person, like a scientist-professor -- somewhat obsessive and not at all carefree.'' 
''Howard, that sounds like you!'' Dr. Friedman's graduate students joked when they saw the statistical findings. On a recent visit to New York, Dr. Friedman and Dr. Martin did both seem statistically inclined to longevity. Conscientiousness abounded. They had persisted in a 20-year study -- following up on documentation that had been collected over the previous 60 years by Lewis Terman and his successors -- despite scoffing from students: Get a life!
The hotel room (Dr. Martin's) was meticulously neat, and they had prudently ordered tea and fruit from room service. Both were trim and tanned, measured in their answers, trading off responses like the longtime collaborators they are. Despite a busy schedule they were organized enough for a relaxed talk.
In 1990, Dr. Friedman and Leslie Martin, his graduate student at the time, realized that an invaluable resource for studying well-being and longevity existed right in their own state of California. In 1921, Dr. Terman had chosen 1,528 bright San Francisco 11-year-olds for a long-term study of the social predictors of intellectual leadership. Dr. Terman interviewed the children, their families, their teachers. He studied their play habits, their parents' marriages and their personalities: were they diligent, extroverted, cheerful? He and his team followed up with the participants every five or 10 years. Dr. Terman died in 1956, but colleagues continued the regular interviews with the original subjects, asking the same questions Dr. Terman had asked.
Dr. Friedman and Dr. Martin pored through Dr. Terman's records, dredged up death certificates and asked Dr. Terman's questions of study participants' survivors. They also conducted a group analysis of other similar studies, and collaborated with experts in many fields.
The secret to a long life has been much studied. The health economist James Smith, at the RAND Corporation, found that the answer was education. Stay in school. This is no doubt true. But his findings don't necessarily conflict with Dr. Friedman and Dr. Martin's: what keeps people is school is often conscientiousness.
The New England Centenarian Study, on the other hand, found that the children of centenarians scored in the low range for neuroticism and the high range for extroversion. (For women it also helped to be agreeable.) Both men and women were about average in conscientiousness. Dr. Friedman pointed out that this was a selected group -- the researchers could not study the centenarians themselves, except by self-reporting, so they turned to their children. There was also no control group. The Friedman/Martin/Terman study is unique in that it followed a single set of participants from childhood to death.
How do you pose the same questions to participants over an 80-year period? Dr. Friedman deferred to Dr. Martin. One of Dr. Terman's original questions to parents was ''How likely are you to upbraid a workman?'' Not very relevant in contemporary life. Employing a complicated linguistic measurement called factor analysis, Dr. Martin said, the researchers were able to come up with the 21st-century equivalent: ''How do you deal with co-workers?''
Many assume biology is the critical factor in longevity. If your parents lived to be 85, you probably will, too. Not so, Dr. Friedman said. ''Genes constitute about one-third of the factors leading to long life,'' he said. ''The other two-thirds have to do with lifestyles and chance.'' As an example of chance, he cited veterans of World War II. ''A disproportionate number of those sent overseas, especially to the Pacific, died at a greater rate after the war than the men who had been deployed at home,'' he said. In any given year, men sent overseas were more than one and a half times as likely to die, compared with their peers who had stayed home.
There are three explanations for the dominant role of conscientiousness. The first and most obvious is that conscientious people are more likely to live healthy lifestyles, to not smoke or drink to excess, wear seat belts, follow doctors' orders and take medication as prescribed. Second, conscientious people tend to find themselves not only in healthier situations but also in healthier relationships: happier marriages, better friendships, healthier work situations.
The third explanation for the link between conscientiousness and longevity is the most intriguing. ''We thought it must be something biological,'' Dr. Friedman said. ''We ruled out every other factor.'' He and other researchers found that some people are biologically predisposed to be not only more conscientiousness but also healthier. ''Not only do they tend to avoid violent deaths and illnesses linked to smoking and drinking,'' they write, ''but conscientious individuals are less prone to a whole host of diseases, not just those caused by dangerous habits.'' The precise physiological explanation is unknown but seems to have to do with levels of chemicals like serotonin in the brain.
As for optimism, it has its downside. ''If you're cheerful, very optimistic, especially in the face of illness and recovery, if you don't consider the possibility that you might have setbacks, then those setbacks are harder to deal with,'' Dr. Martin said. ''If you're one of those people who think everything's fine -- 'no need to back up those computer files' -- the stress of failure, because you haven't been more careful, is harmful. You almost set yourself up for more problems.''
How about exercise? Dr. Martin once ran the Marathon des Sables, a six-day race across the Moroccan desert, carrying her own food, bedding and clothing over 150 miles. But extreme exercise is not a predictable indicator of longevity (though the organization and persistence required to get there probably are). As important as exercise and lifestyle are to health, and thus to longevity, pushing yourself to extremes is not necessarily going to lengthen your life span, particularly if you don't enjoy it.
Spend your time working at a job you like instead. ''There's a misconception about stress,'' Dr. Friedman said. ''People think everyone should take it easy.'' Rather, he said, ''a hard job that is also stressful can be associated with longevity. Challenges, even if stressful, are also a link.'' In the end, he said, ''if people were involved, working hard, succeeded, were responsible --no matter what field they were in -- they were more likely to live longer.'' Many people, of course, have to stay in a job they don't like or don't do well in. That's bad stress, and they found those people were more likely to die young.
When it comes to marriage, there are many caveats. Marriage itself, adding together the husband's and the wife's happiness, was a good predictor of future health and longevity. But more interestingly, it was the man's happiness that was the better predictor of health and well-being -- for both the husband and the wife. Her own happiness mattered much less to her future well-being. Their mutual compatibility was also a strong factor in predicting their children's longevity: the single strongest social predictor (as opposed to personality predictor) of early death was parental divorce during childhood.
I asked Dr. Friedman and Dr. Martin what the single strongest social predictor of long life was. Their unhesitating answer: a strong social network. Widows outlive widowers. (Widows also tended to outlive still-married women.) Women tend to have stronger social networks. Interestingly, neurotic widowers tended to outlive their less neurotic peers -- they were more likely to take care of their health after their wives were gone.
One of my friends commented after hearing about the importance of conscientiousness, ''No wonder women live longer than men.'' That's partly true, Dr. Friedman said, but a great deal of it also has to do with social networks, a social support system, which women are often more likely to have. ''Among male/female differences, that's a big piece,'' he said.
The project is far from finished. Dr. Martin also wants to look into other variables affecting health, like sleep patterns. And she is interested in how their findings can begin to have an effect on public policy. Dr. Friedman said he thought the most important as-yet-unanswered question was about work -- ''retirement kinds of issues,'' he said. ''We know it's not good to retire and go to the beach.'' But it's also not good to stay in a stressful boring job. ''We need to think about negotiating these transitions in a healthy way,'' he added.
''The Longevity Project'' is written for the general reader, and it is full of self-assessment questionnaires, structured cleverly so the correct answers are not obvious. The subject matter of the questionnaires is illustrative of some of the other factors that are associated either positively or less positively with longevity: They include sociability (are you the life of the party?), emotional sociability, neuroticism, catastrophic thinking, life satisfaction, marital happiness, job passion and accomplishment, religiosity and social support network.
But the book is also amply footnoted with scholarly citations that others may want to follow up. It's far more nuanced in its discussion than any short summary could be. When I asked Dr. Friedman how he could prevent people from oversimplifying his findings, he sighed. He said he tells them they have to read the book. I have oversimplified, of course, and I, too, would recommend you read the book. It's a lot more complex than it sounds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); CHILDREN (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



451 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Still an Ideological Oddity in New Jersey, but a Rising Force in His Party

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Long before there was a Tea Party, there was Representative Scott Garrett, a Republican from the forested regions of northern New Jersey who had long stood out among the moderates and liberals of both parties in the state's Congressional delegation.
Over the years, he has been the only member of the delegation to vote against extending unemployment benefits, the only one to vote against making gasoline price-gouging a crime and the only one to vote for lifting a ban on gas and oil drilling off the coast of New Jersey and other states. 
In many ways, Mr. Garrett's ascension says much more about Congress than it says about Mr. Garrett. A few years ago, he was considered outside the mainstream of even his own party. Now, he is increasingly in the mainstream.
Indeed, Mr. Garrett has become a powerful Republican voice at a time when the party is engaged in a war with President Obama and Democrats over tax policy, federal spending and the budget deficit.
Mr. Garrett is the No. 2 Republican on the House Budget Committee, whose plan to cut more than $6 trillion in federal spending includes, among other things, overhauling a program sacred to both parties: Medicare.
But that did not go far enough for Mr. Garrett, who is the architect of an even more austere budget plan that he brought to the House floor last week, with the considerable support of conservative colleagues.
While his views would not be considered out of step in more conservative parts of the country, they stand out in the heavily Democratic Northeast. Not only has the number of Republicans in the region been dwindling in recent years, but those who have managed to survive have done so by defying their party's conservative leadership and embracing moderate positions.
''He takes a point of view that is often more compatible with representatives from the South or the West,'' said Representative Frank Pallone Jr., a Democrat from New Jersey. ''He is part of the right-wing element in the Republican Party pushing the leadership to the right.''
Mr. Garrett did not dispute the view that he stood out ideologically among his New Jersey colleagues. ''My colleagues are correct,'' he said.
But he pointed to evidence that his brand of conservatism was gaining traction even in heavily Democratic New Jersey. ''Christie is a sign of where the country is now,'' he said, referring to the governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie, a Republican who has cut the state budget and taken on public sector unions. Mr. Garrett also mentioned an article he had read in a New Jersey newspaper. ''The headline was something like: 'Garrett's Now in Vogue.' ''
Mr. Garrett founded and leads the House Constitution caucus, whose membership swelled this year with the arrival of a new freshman class that was elected in the fall on a conservative platform and with strong Tea Party support.
One of the first things a visitor to Mr. Garrett's Congressional office notices is a plastic backbone hanging behind his desk. Given to him by a supporter after he was first elected in 2002, it has a clear meaning: stick to your principles and avoid the ideological tradeoffs on which Washington thrives.
Not long after that, though, Mr. Garrett removed the backbone from his office, sorely disappointed that he had caved to the demands of his party's leaders to back a plan to spend billions of dollars for a Medicare drug benefit. But given the chance to redeem himself in a second vote, Mr. Garrett voted ''no.''
The backbone returned to his office. And it has stayed there.
''I've said I will stick with what I believe in,'' he said, ''and let the consequences be what they are.''
Mr. Garrett has long been an insurgent within his own party. In the 1998 and 2000 elections, he defied the New Jersey Republican establishment and ran ferocious primary challenges against Representative Marge Roukema, a centrist Republican and an elder stateswoman within the delegation. In 2002, Ms. Roukema decided not to run for a 12th term, paving the way for Mr. Garrett, then a member of the State Legislature, to capture the Republican nomination and go on to win the seat.
Once in Congress, Mr. Garrett quickly found himself at odds with Republicans in Washington.
On a visit to the White House, he challenged President George W. Bush on his education program, No Child Left Behind, saying that it exceeded the authority of the federal government. Mr. Bush was none too pleased with his opinionated guest. ''He didn't agree with me, let's just put it that way,'' Mr. Garrett recalled.
But that paled in comparison with his uncomfortable split with his party's leadership over a bill calling for a multibillion-dollar expansion of Medicare to provide low-cost prescription drugs to the elderly, an important constituency for both parties.
After voting to approve the bill the first time around, Mr. Garrett vowed to oppose it once it returned to the House for final passage. Before the second vote, Mr. Garrett came under as much pressure as he had before the first, even receiving a phone call from Mr. Bush, who considered it a signature piece of legislation.
''I told him I didn't come to Washington to expand the size of government,'' Mr. Garrett recalled of his conversation with Mr. Bush. ''That's when the conversation ended abruptly.''
Over the years, Mr. Garrett has only become more confident -- and influential.
He belonged to a group of Republicans who deserted the party's leadership to vote against a spending bill to keep the government running through September, forcing John A. Boehner, the House speaker, to rely on Democrats to pass the measure last week. Instead, Mr. Garrett offered an alternative budget that was voted down but that picked up the support of 119 Republicans, most of them conservatives.''Now,'' he said afterward, ''it's on to the next fight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The views of Representative Scott Garrett once made him an outsider in the Republican Party. But he now finds himself in his party's mainstream and says his brand of conservatism is gaining traction in New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); MEDICARE (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (56%); GASOLINE PRICES (56%)

PERSON: SCOTT GARRETT (92%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); FRANK PALLONE JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



452 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Readers Feel the Pinch Of Paying Hotel Extras

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DON'T get Jesse White started about those fees and surcharges that high-end hotels slap onto your bill. He was more than happy to discuss his annoyance with that kind of treatment.
''It's fee, fee, fee -- a litany of fees,'' said Mr. White, who owns a retail business in Florida called Sarasota Architectural Salvage that specializes in period furnishings for restorations.
''When I'm a traveler, I'm mostly a business traveler, and I'm looking for value and not getting it when I stay at these hotels,'' he said. ''Plus it hurts, as a business owner, when you send other people on the road, when you've budgeted X for the travel but it comes back X plus 20 percent. It drives me crazy.'' 
He said he recently took his family to a luxury hotel for a holiday -- ''three rooms; a huge bill, including a mandatory valet parking fee in a place with a huge amount of available parking space,'' he said. In the departure commotion, with many guests waiting out front for their cars, he forgot one suitcase filled ''mostly with the kids' toys,'' he said.
When he called the hotel from home to ask about the suitcase, he was told someone would get back to him. ''And that was it. ''Nothing. They never got back to us,'' he said. ''Their niche is high-end customer service, and they don't call a person back?''
On the other hand, like most business travelers, Mr. White said he stays more often at midrange hotels that seldom add fees. These hotels, incidentally, are prospering.
On a recent business trip in Atlanta, he stayed at a Drury Inn and Suites near the airport, where the amenities include free parking and Internet and a free breakfast and evening hot buffet with free drinks. At departure, he left a bathing suit in his room.
''I called them, and they called me right back and said they found it and, since I was coming back in a couple of weeks, they'd hold it for me,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''This is an airport hotel in Atlanta with thousands of people coming through, with occupancy probably 80 to 90 percent -- and I got my swimming suit back.''
Mr. White was among a lot of readers who reacted to last week's column in which I complained about the fees on my bill after a recent stay at the luxury Arizona Biltmore, a Hilton property in Phoenix. I was especially rankled by a $3-a-night charge for ''housekeeping gratuity'' and $12 for bellman service and ''porterage,'' even though I did not use a bellhop and always leave money for the maid in the room. Incidentally, a two-ounce pack of cookies in the minibar at the hotel was $6 and a bottle of water was $8.
Last year and in 2009, during the worst of the economic slump, high-end hotels were the most affected segment of the lodging industry. The conference and conventions business that many resorts specialize in was especially hard hit. One result was that people who book business meetings suddenly had pricing power and were able, in many cases, to demand concessions -- not just on room rates but on those infernal fees -- in exchange for the group business that these hotels needed.
But now, the high-end hotel segment is recovering. For the week that ended April 9, revenue per available room at the two top segments, upper-upscale and luxury hotels, was a combined 15.3 percent higher than the comparable week last year, according to Smith Travel Research. That rate far outpaced the average for the industry as a whole.
Revenue for fees and surcharges this year will probably be a record, exceeding the $1.75 billion that hotels made in 2008, according to Bjorn Hanson, dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University.
And pricing power is returning to the hotels. ''It has been more and more challenging getting hotels to waive these ancillary fees,'' said Lori Jenaire, who negotiates arrangements for meetings and conferences for clients at ConferenceDirect.
We all have pet peeves about fees. Some readers are livid about so-called groundskeeping fees and others by charges for things like that in-room safe that few people use. A nightly charge for housekeeping especially irks me. So let's say I share my skepticism and cynicism with one business traveler, who wrote this after reading last week's column:
''Like you, my wife and I have long left a tip on the bed at hotels as a tip to the person that cleans the room. However, last fall, in Manhattan we came back to our room midmorning. The room had not been cleaned, but the tip was gone.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (72%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



453 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2301 words

HEADLINE: FICTION

 BODY:
The Pulitzer Prizes were announced on Monday. The complete list of winners in Letters, Drama and Music is below.
FICTION: ''A Visit from the Goon Squad,'' by Jennifer Egan (Alfred A. Knopf)
Ms. Egan, 48, was cited for fiction for her ''inventive investigation of growing up and growing old in the digital age, displaying a big-hearted curiosity about cultural change at warp speed.''
She radically re-imagined the novel genre by writing a series of interlocking stories. In hardcover, the book was not identified as a novel on the cover, leading some readers to believe that it was a nonfiction study about music.
''At one point I was calling it entangled stories,'' Ms. Egan said. ''It's a little mysterious in its genre. In a way, who cares? As long as it feels like a story.'' 
Finalists:''The Privileges,'' by Jonathan Dee (Random House); ''The Surrendered,'' by Chang-rae Lee (Riverhead Books).
DRAMA: ''Clybourne Park'' by Bruce Norris
''Clybourne Park,'' a comedy about race relations inspired by Lorraine Hansberry's ''Raisin in the Sun,'' is set in the same house in Chicago in 1959 and 2009.
In the first act, residents of an all-white neighborhood grow anxious as blacks move in; by the second act, the neighborhood has become predominantly black, and it is the arrival of a white couple that stirs tension.
The Pulitzer jury noted that the characters ''speak in witty and perceptive ways to America's sometimes toxic struggle with race and class consciousness.'' Mr. Norris, 50, said in a statement that he was ''deeply honored and totally flabbergasted.''
Finalists:''A Free Man of Color,'' by John Guare; ''Detroit,'' by Lisa D'Amour.
HISTORY: ''The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery'' by Eric Foner (W. W. Norton & Company)
At a moment when attention is focused on the start of the Civil War 150 years ago, Dr. Foner, 68, was cited for ''bringing unforeseeable twists and a fresh sense of improbability to a familiar story.''
An expert on the politics of the Civil War era, he argues that Lincoln initially reflected many of the prejudiced racial attitudes of his time, but grew morally and politically in the presidency until he came to embrace the Civil War's ''fundamental and astounding'' result: emancipation and the recognition of blacks as American citizens.
Finalists: ''Confederate Reckoning: Power and Politics in the Civil War South,'' by Stephanie McCurry (Harvard University Press); ''Eden on the Charles: The Making of Boston,'' by Michael Rawson (Harvard University Press).
BIOGRAPHY: ''Washington: A Life'' by Ron Chernow (The Penguin Press)
No American is so revered as George Washington, yet Mr. Chernow, 62, was troubled that ''in recent years people had an image of Washington as wooden, bland and boring,'' far from the ''passionate, complex and sensitive man -- dynamic and commanding and charismatic,'' whose contemporaries viewed him as an authentic hero, the author said Monday.
Striving to uncover Washington's hidden side, Mr. Chernow achieved what the citation called ''a sweeping, authoritative portrait of an iconic leader learning to master his private feelings in order to fulfill his public duties.''
Finalists:''The Publisher: Henry Luce and His American Century,'' by Alan Brinkley (Alfred A. Knopf); ''Mrs. Adams in Winter: A Journey in the Last Days of Napoleon,'' by Michael O'Brien (Farrar, Straus and Giroux).
POETRY: ''The Best of It: New and Selected Poems'' by Kay Ryan (Grove Press)
Ms. Ryan, 65, labored outside poetry's mainstream for decades before she started gaining recognition for her sharp, aphoristic work, much of which is gathered in her eighth book. ''I was trying to offer a review of a fairly long career that was not much remarked on for the first 25 years of it,'' said Ms. Ryan, who last year was the 16th poet laureate of the United States. ''My things are little, and it's nice if you pile them up. It's a bigger sock in the jaw.''
Finalists:''The Common Man,'' by Maurice Manning (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt); ''Break the Glass,'' by Jean Valentine (Copper Canyon Press).
GENERAL NONFICTION: ''The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer'' by Siddhartha Mukherjee (Scribner)
Dr. Mukherjee, an oncologist and laboratory researcher in cancer at Columbia University began taking notes years ago when he was working in Boston as a fellow in cancer medicine. ''It was a journal, and then slowly it began to grow bigger and bigger,'' said Dr. Mukherjee, 40. ''Because it got to the essence of the question, which is: 'Where are we in the history of cancer and how did we get here'?''
Finalists:''The Shallows: What the Internet Is Doing to Our Brain,'' by Nicholas Carr (W.W. Norton & Company); ''Empire of the Summer Moon: Quanah Parker and the Rise and Fall of the Comanches, the Most Powerful Indian Tribe in American History,'' by S.C. Gwynne (Scribner).
MUSIC: ''Madame White Snake'' by Zhou Long, premiered on February 26, 2010 by the Boston Opera the Cutler Majestic Theatre.
The Pulitzer committee described Mr. Zhou's work as ''a deeply expressive opera that draws on a Chinese folk tale to blend the musical traditions of the East and the West.'' Mr. Zhou, 57, was exiled during the Cultural Revolution but enrolled in the first composition class just after the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing reopened in 1977. ''I felt the opera is a reflection of all my works combined,'' including music for Chinese ensembles and Western orchestras and choruses, Mr. Zhou said. ''I'm not following fashions. I don't reject anything. I look at everything equally.''
Finalists:''Arches,'' by Fred Lerdahl, premiered on November 19, 2010 at Miller Theatre, Columbia University; ''Comala,'' by Ricardo Zohn-Muldoon, recording released in June, 2010 by Bridge Records.
PUBLIC SERVICE THE LOS ANGELES TIMES
The public service award went to The Los Angeles Times for reporting by Jeffrey Gottlieb, 57, and Ruben Vives, 32, who uncovered municipal corruption in the small California city of Bell. Their questions and requests for city records revealed that the city manager's annual compensation exceeded $1 million, as well as other questionable fiscal practices. The disclosures led to investigations, resignations and an allnew City Council sworn in this month. ''We would go out to do a story,'' Mr. Gottlieb said, ''and come back with three more.''
FINALISTS The New York Times (Alan Schwarz); Bloomberg News (Daniel Golden, John Hechinger and John Lauerman).
BREAKING NEWS REPORTING
There was no award this year.
FINALISTS The Chicago Tribune; The Miami Herald and El Nuevo Herald (jointly); The Tennessean (Nashville).
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING PAIGE ST. JOHN
The Sarasota Herald-Tribune Using her experience in computer-assisted reporting, Ms. St. John, 50, uncovered the reason Florida property owners pay the highest insurance rates in the nation.
Her reporting found that insolvent insurers continued to collect premiums and companies drove up rates using questionable computer models. The database Ms. St. John created was turned into a useful Web tool for customers, allowing them to quickly find information about their own insurance companies. ''We wanted to make it easy for people to make the choice for themselves,'' said Michael Connelly, the paper's executive editor.
FINALISTS Walt Bogdanich of The New York Times; Sam Roe and Jared S. Hopkins of The Chicago Tribune.
EXPLANATORY REPORTING MARK JOHNSON KATHLEEN GALLAGHER GARY PORTER LOU SALDIVAR ALISON SHERWOOD
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel The Journal Sentinel series, ''One in a Billion,'' followed doctors' efforts to find a diagnosis and treat a child with a mysterious disease using genetic sequencing and other means. In a demonstration of the multidisciplinary journalism that many newspapers have embraced, two reporters, Mr. Johnson, 47, and Ms. Gallagher, 51, were joined by a photographer, Mr. Porter, 60; a graphics editor, Mr. Saldivar, 52; and an interactive producer, Ms. Sherwood, 24, who prepared videos that accompanied the articles.
FINALISTS The Wall Street Journal staff; The Washington Post staff
LOCAL REPORTING FRANK MAIN MARK KONKOL JOHN J. KIM
The Chicago Sun-Times
The prize was the first for The Sun- Times since 1989. The three reporters wrote of the violent ''no-snitching'' culture in Chicago. For one article, Mr. Main spent four months embedded with homicide detectives. For another, the reporters chronicled a weekend of shootings. ''In many of these cases the police were closing cases because the victims themselves weren't testifying,'' Mr. Main said.
FINALISTSMarshall Allen and Alex Richards of The Las Vegas Sun; Stanley Nelson of The Concordia (La.) Sentinel.
NATIONAL REPORTING JESSE EISINGER JAKE BERNSTEIN ProPublica
In a series of articles called ''The Wall Street Money Machine,'' Mr. Eisinger, 40, and Mr. Bernstein, 41, documented how some financial firms, in the words of the nonprofit news organization ProPublica, ''at first delayed but then worsened the financial crisis.'' The Pulitzer board credited the reporters for ''using digital tools to help explain the complex subject to lay readers.'' Mr. Eisinger also writes a twice-monthly column for the DealBook section of The New York Times.
FINALISTS David Evans of Bloomberg News; the staff of the Wall Street Journal
INTERNATIONAL REPORTING
CLIFFORD J. LEVY ELLEN BARRY
The New York Times ''Above the Law,'' a wide-ranging series by Mr. Levy, 43, and Ms. Barry, 40, about the failures of Russia's legal system, had at least one palpable impact: After their report on how Microsoft helped the police crack down on advocacy and opposition groups under a pretense of fighting software piracy, the company overhauled its practices in Russia. ''Russia's own president, Dmitri Medvedev, has spoken repeatedly about its tendency toward 'legal nihilism,''' Mr. Levy said. ''What we were trying to do was illustrate that problem for our readers.''
FINALISTS Deborah Sontag of The New York Times; the staff of The Wall Street Journal.
FEATURE WRITING AMY ELLIS NUTT
The Star-Ledger, Newark Ms. Nutt, 55, was cited for her ''deeply probing story'' about the mysterious sinking of a fishing ship off the coast of Cape May, N.J., which killed six men. Ms. Nutt spent seven months reporting on the story, which ran as a 20-page special section. ''If something like this had happened on land, there would have been an immediate public outcry and an investigation,'' she said. ''But as I learned, there are no skid marks on the ocean.'' FINALISTS Tony Bartelme of The Post and Courier, Charleston, S.C.; Michael M. Phillips of The Wall Street Journal.
COMMENTARY DAVID LEONHARDT
The New York Times
Mr. Leonhardt, 38, a finalist in the commentary category a year ago, won this year for columns the Pulitzer board said provided ''graceful penetration'' of economic issues. He joined The Times in 1999.
A major in applied math at Yale, Mr. Leonhardt never studied economics. ''I never had to unlearn the jargon,'' he said, adding, ''I love to tell stories and I love numbers, and it's a great privilege to have a job that lets me do both.''
FINALISTS Phillip Morris of The Plain Dealer, Cleveland; Mary Schmich of The Chicago Tribune.
CRITICISM SEBASTIAN SMEE
The Boston Globe
The Pulitzer Board praised Mr. Smee for art criticism characterized by ''vivid and exuberant writing'' that brought great works to life ''with love and appreciation.'' Mr. Smee, 38, is a native of Australia and joined The Globe three years ago. He was a finalist in this category in 2008 after having written for the paper for only eight months. He said, ''We have been already celebrating because it's my daughter's fourth birthday.'' He added that in the thrill of winning, ''I honestly can't even remember which pieces I submitted.''
FINALISTS Jonathan Gold of LA Weekly; Nicolai Ouroussoff of The New York Times.
EDITORIAL WRITING
JOSEPH RAGO
The Wall Street Journal With the health care reform debate blazing, Mr. Rago was honored for his ''well-crafted, against-the-grain editorials challenging the health care reform advocated by President Obama,'' according to the citation. Mr. Rago, 28, said he had been writing editorials about health care since 2007. ''It became a huge national issue because of what the White House chose to do after the election,'' he said. ''I think people were interested in serious commentary that challenged some of the White House's claims.''
FINALISTS Jackson Diehl of The Washington Post; John McCormick of The Chicago Tribune.
BREAKING NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY CAROL GUZY, NIKKI KAHN AND RICKY CARIOTI
The Washington Post
Ms. Guzy, 55, Ms. Kahn and Mr. Carioti, 42, were honored for their ''up-close portrait of grief and desperation'' in Haiti. This was Ms. Guzy's fourth Pulitzer Prize. Asked in an interview on Monday how she coped with such devastating scenes, she said, ''You have to have some protective barrier around your heart so you can do your job.''
FINALISTS Daniel Berehulak and Paula Bronstein of Getty Images; Carolyn Cole of The Los Angeles Times.
FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHY BARBARA DAVIDSON
The Los Angeles Times
Ms. Davidson was frustrated that declining crime rates had diminished interest in victims of gang violence. ''Even one person being impacted by this is incredibly wrong,'' she said. So she created a portfolio showing those who had been caught in the crossfire. Her editors were persuaded to let her pursue the assignment. Her Pulitzer Prize for the series is her second.
FINALISTS Todd Heisler of The New York Times; Greg Kahn of The Naples (Fla.) Daily News.
EDITORIAL CARTOONING MIKE KEEFE
The Denver Post
Mr. Keefe, 64, joined The Post in 1975; his first career was as a college math teacher. The Pulitzer judges cited his ''loose, expressive style'' that sends ''strong, witty messages.''
FINALISTSMatt Davies of The Journal News, Westchester County, N.Y.; Joel Pett of Lexington (Ky.) Herald-Leader.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); RACE & RACISM (87%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SLAVERY (62%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (63%); RIVERHEAD BOOKS (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (63%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



454 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Destruction On Campus Brings End To Semester

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON

 BODY:
Instead of cramming for finals, students at the South's oldest historically black college were cramming their belongings into hastily bought tubs from Wal-Mart after a tornado forced an abrupt departure from their dormitories and, in some cases, an early end to their college years. 
The whirlwind churned up uncertainty at Shaw University, in Raleigh, N.C., as some students wondered whether they would be able to graduate in the short term and others tried to fathom how the college would rebuild.
One of the tornadoes that tore through Wake County on Saturday was actually at a weak point when it lashed together fallen trees in front of Shaw's modernist bell tower, blew the roof off the student center and rendered two of the four dormitories uninhabitable.
''It literally looked like a scene out of Hurricane Katrina,'' said Aeriel Sanders, an English major.
Officials decided to close Shaw indefinitely. The university, a private Baptist institution, was founded in 1865.
Veterans and observers of school closings praised Shaw's president, Irma McClaurin, for quick decision-making and expressed confidence that the university would survive.
Some students cheered the early vacation. But the news prompted more anxiety for others. Some seniors were upset that they would not have the opportunity to improve their grade point averages with final exams and projects. Others wondered whether to apply for graduate school or participate in commencement, which was still scheduled for May 7.
But anxiety began to subside by Monday afternoon as professors began responding to e-mail, and the university said it was putting together a Web site to help students contact instructors.
Shaw officials were still assessing the damage Monday, and it remained unclear when classes would resume.
''The decision is expected to be made within a week about how summer school will be conducted,'' Sherri Fillingham, a communications official, said in an e-mail. ''Then we rebuild.''
Scott S. Cowen, the president of Tulane University, said Shaw's situation was ''like deja vu.'' Mr. Cowen saw Tulane, in New Orleans, through its five-month closing after Hurricane Katrina, which was followed by a sweeping overhaul.
''When you have an event like this happen, you have to think, 'Can we come back the way we were before, or is there a new future for us?' '' Mr. Cowen said.
Shaw's devastation came just a year after a $31 million loan to refinance the university's debt forestalled a financial crisis.
Students, who protested in recent years to demand better dining and living conditions, saw an opportunity for major improvements, especially at the Willie E. Gary Student Center.
''I'd rather see it be rebuilt from scratch so it can be more state of the art, because it's kind of old,'' said Jason Royal, a senior business management major. ''We wanted more up-to-date equipment like we were seeing at other schools.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dorothy Wade, at left, packed her belongings on Sunday at Shaw University, where two dormitories were uninhabitable after a tornado struck on Saturday. The roof of the Willie E. Gary Student Center was also damaged. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAKAAKI IWABU/NEWS & OBSERVER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); TORNADOES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); GRADES & GRADING (73%); HURRICANES (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



455 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM HAVANA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: In a Changing Cuba, Many Remain Skeptical

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
HAVANA -- For months, Cubans have been treated to an uncharacteristically blunt assessment of their future by none other than their president, Raul Castro.
They do not work hard enough and live too much off the state dole, he has said. The economy has been based on an unworkable math in which two plus two ''equals six or eight,'' as he put it in a speech on Saturday. And the leadership has failed to groom a young generation to take over, leaving the upper echelon of the party dominated by standard-bearers of the revolution who are as old as 87.
No longer, he has promised, pushing forward a battery of changes, vastly expanding small businesses and, for the first time since the 1959 revolution, allowing Cubans to buy and sell private homes, something now done only through a bustling underground market.
But if winds of change -- and it remains to be seen if they will end up being breezes or gusts -- are emanating from the convention hall where the Communist Party held its sixth congress over the last three days, Cubans seem ambivalent, even skeptical, that the end result will upend the island. 
''We have a way of making changes but keeping everything the same,'' said Johan Rodriguez, 22, who supplements his meager state accountant salary by selling trinkets on the street. ''The basic problem is we have no money. I am hoping what they are discussing will change that.''
Mr. Castro has steadfastly avoided using anything like the word capitalism in discussing the new economic platform, lest the United States get the impression a long-lost cousin was coming into the fold. Indeed, he has tended to avoid describing the changes as, well, changes, preferring to cast them as ''modernizing'' the Socialist model here.
Still, he has proved adept at diagnosing the precarious condition of the economy, warning that Cuba can no longer afford state workers who do little for their checks and even suggesting eventually doing away with the ration books that provide food and other necessities at heavily subsidized prices.
''How will we afford food?'' said another young Cuban, a 36-year-old engineer who did not want his name used for fear his remarks would sound too critical to the government. ''They will have to lower food prices a lot so people do not starve. This all seems so much so fast.''
Still, Mr. Castro has not been the radical reformer his speeches suggest he might be. He recently stepped back from announced plans to lay off 500,000 state workers, postponing the cuts indefinitely. Last year, he had cast the state's ''inflated work force'' as an unsustainable expense, ''tantamount to eating up our future and jeopardizing the very survival of the Revolution.''
But instead of the rapid economic overhaul previously laid out by the Communist leadership, Mr. Castro said much of the changes anticipated would come over the next five years.
And although he suggested top leaders like himself serve no more than two consecutive five-year terms, he also complained that the younger generation was ill prepared to take on top jobs.
How, analysts wondered, should that be interpreted as he officially ascends to the top spot in the party -- Fidel Castro, 84, disclosed last month that he was no longer the party chief -- and selects a new No. 2 at the party, the person who could succeed him as the nation's president?
Rafael Hernandez, a political scientist who edits the magazine Temas here, says there are legions of young party members in the bottom ranks who often hit a wall as they ascend.
''It is about a difficult political change between the generation that has been there for 50 years and the young generation,'' he said. ''It's a difficult process and one that they have wanted to be done deliberately gradually so it would not be so traumatic.
''But,'' he added, ''I think it is not just about more young people. It's about young people who think differently. We can have young people who think like the old ones or we can have young people who are young and think differently.''
Reading the tobacco leaves, as some call the Kremlinology here, can prove foolhardy since presumed rising stars streak and fizzle out. It is mostly a matter of matching relatively youthful ages with party rank and the frequency of television appearances, particularly near the Castros.
Much of the attention is on Marino Murillo, 50, who defended President Castro's initiatives when he was the economy minister. Now he holds a new post as a kind of czar overseeing changes designed to push more people into private enterprise.
Other names mentioned by diplomats and other Cuba watchers are Lazaro Exposito, believed to be in his 40s and the head of the Communist Party in Cuba's second city, Santiago de Cuba, and Lazara Lopez Acea, 47, the party leader of Havana.
Then again, Mr. Castro could stick to someone from the old guard, like Jose Ramon Machado, 80, who fought at his side and is in effect the current second-highest ranking functionary.
''The two-term idea -- a good one, anyhow, even if it comes rather late -- may be due in part to keep the less predictable seniors from jockeying to succeed Raul,'' said Mauricio A. Font, a CUNY Graduate Center professor. ''But the revolutionary regime does need new leaders rather fast. Previous efforts to groom the next generation of leaders failed in large part because younger leaders and others grew to develop perspectives and ideas that differed from those of the seniors, whom they also dismissed as obsolete.''
Jorge I. Dominguez, a Harvard professor, said the most-discussed prospects suffer from lacking the legend of the Castros. ''What's missing is a politician, someone to explain, justify, motivate and give hope that theirs is still the linea correcta,'' he said.
This may become important as people chafe at some of the finer print of the changes, like the heavy taxes that the newly licensed self-employed and small businesses must contend with.
''The argument is that this is one means to prevent the concentration of new wealth,'' Dr. Dominguez said. ''Of course, what they desperately need to do is to create jobs, not discourage them.''
Taking it all in are Cubans like Sevian Vargas, 32, who considered the doings from his newly opened hamburger stand in the Miramar neighborhood. As a ''cuenta propista'' -- one of the legions of mom-and-pop outfits hawking everything from use of bathrooms to pizza and jewelry -- he appreciates the opportunity to have his own business.
But in the end, he said, he has seen promises of reform die slow deaths and wonders if any of it will lead to more freedoms.
''I think we all have hope, we have to,'' he said. ''Many times they have talked but haven't complied with what they talked about. But Raul is more direct. So this could really be it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raul Castro delivered a speech on Saturday during the opening of the Communist Party's sixth congress in Havana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); LAYOFFS (68%); FOOD PRICES (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



456 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Revenue And Profit Fall at Citi

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
7:45 p.m. Updated
Citigroup took another halting step forward on Monday in its long march back from the brink, reporting a $3 billion profit in the first quarter, in spite of continuing losses in its mortgage unit and lackluster investment banking results.
The company earned 10 cents a share, a penny above analysts' expectations, but down 32 percent from the comparable period a year earlier, when it earned its first profit since the financial crisis struck. 
As has been the case for other financial giants, Citigroup's revenue actually fell during the first quarter, as nearly every major region and business except Latin America experienced a slowdown from a year earlier. Over all, revenue declined 22 percent, to $19.7 billion. Expenses also continued to rise, in part because of new business investments as well as higher legal costs.
Citi's results were buoyed by the release of $3.3 billion in reserves that had previously been set aside to cover losses on credit cards and other loans. That helped offset deeper losses in its domestic mortgage business and a weaker performance from its trading and investment banking groups.
''Our core businesses performed well despite the difficult economy,'' Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, wrote in an internal memorandum to employees. ''We've come a long way - and we continue to move forward.'' Mr. Pandit is expected to give a fuller report on Thursday at Citigroup's annual shareholder meeting in Midtown Manhattan.
The bank is also planning a 10-for-1 reverse stock split early next month that will almost certainly draw criticism from stockholders who argue it is little more than a symbolic effort to raise the bank's stock price.
On Monday, when the broader markets fell sharply, the company's stock was unchanged at $4.42 a share.
Citigroup's earnings were tempered by the same factors that weighed on the earnings of Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase, which reported their first quarter results last week.
Traditional banking businesses have been hit by rising foreclosure costs, new financial regulations and a slowdown in growth for home loans. Wells Fargo and several big regional players are expected to report similar trends when they announce their results later this week.
But Citigroup, whose stock price plummeted to below $1 during the financial crisis, is under intense pressure to show improvement. For the last three years, Mr. Pandit has been engaged in an ambitious plan to overhaul the troubled company, streamlining its sprawling operations and changing it from a global financial supermarket into a leaner and more focused lender.
Citi is close to completing its plan to shrink its balance sheet. Today, the pile of assets that Citi plans to sell or divest is down to $337 billion, less than half of its peak of $827 billion in early 2008. CitiFinancial, its large consumer lending franchise, is one of its last major businesses to go on sale, and several private equity firms are in the final stages of bidding.
The bank also identified assets worth an additional $12.7 billion that it will sell in order to free up capital, resulting in a pretax charge of $709 million when it booked the assets at their current market value.
''We are very much on track,'' John C. Gerspach, Citigroup's chief financial officer, said on a conference call with reporters. ''We are going to continue to make progress but it will be at a reduced pace from where we were in 2010.''
Federal regulators acknowledged Citi's progress when they approved Mr. Pandit's plan to reinstate the dividend in early May at a token one-tenth of a penny per share. But unlike several major competitors that announced large share buyback programs, Mr. Pandit has said that the bank is unlikely to buy back stock until sometime in 2012.
Meanwhile, the company faces rising costs, especially in its loan servicing business. And unlike JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup did not book a large upfront charge to reflect the higher operating costs required to meet the new servicing requirements outlined in a regulatory enforcement order issued last week.
Instead, Citi officials expect operating costs for the mortgage business to rise about $25 million to $35 million per quarter as it hires as many as 500 new employees to handle the increased volume of foreclosures.
The bank also expects to take additional charges tied to the overhaul of its servicing business, which could total as much as $40 million to $50 million over the next few quarters.
Citi, like most of its big competitors, also faces an array of legal claims from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other investors who say that the bank sold them securities backed by faulty mortgage loans. Mr. Gerspach said Citi had added about $122 million to its reserves to cover those potential liabilities.
Citigroup's investment banking profit fell by 46 percent, to $1.7 billion, from a year ago, when the trading environment was much stronger.
Investment banking fees fell 18 percent amid a slowdown in its merger advisory business as well as slower stock and bond underwriting.
Trading revenue from its fixed income, commodities and currency group, which long drove the bank's growth, dropped 29 percent. Trading revenue from equities fell 19 percent.
Overseas, the news was mixed. For several quarters, the bank's consumer businesses in Asia and Latin America have been one of the few bright spots.
Loan losses eased more quickly in those regions than in the United States, and corporate lending has been picking up in those areas. Nearly 70 percent of earnings from Citi's core operations came from overseas in the first quarter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: April 18, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the size of the first-quarter loss at Citi Holdings. It reported a loss of $608 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, has been engaged in an ambitious plan to overhaul the troubled company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK SPLITS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



457 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Spins Away From Success

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
''We didn't have a massive short against the housing market,'' Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, insisted at a Congressional hearing last year.
Ever since, politicians, pundits and professors have been calling him a liar. Goldman Sachs, his critics contend, escaped relatively unscathed largely because the bank saw the apocalypse coming and moved to profit from it.
This narrative might feel like well-trodden territory. But the sometimes mind-numbing 650-page report on the financial crisis published last week by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations offers a stark conclusion: Goldman Sachs executives did not tell the whole truth. 
Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, is so convinced that Mr. Blankfein and his colleagues ''misled'' Congress that he wants to refer the matter to the Justice Department to figure out whether Goldman executives broke the law.
While prosecutors will have to determine the potential legal implications, the evidence amassed by the Congressional subcommittee increasingly shows that Goldman bet against the mortgage market -- and did so successfully. It wasn't just a ''hedge.''
Why then has Goldman tried to spin it into a different story?
''I cannot figure out why they keep denying it,'' said William D. Cohan, the author of the new book, ''Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,'' and a columnist for NYTimes.com. His best explanation is that ''given the political dynamics that we're living in the moment, they'd rather be perceived as being as dumb as everybody else.''
Perhaps chest-beating about your genius at a time when the rest of Wall Street -- and the nation -- is doing so poorly might seem unbecoming. But it sure seems better than people publicly questioning your integrity.
The findings of the Congressional report are straightforward and damning.
The Senate subcommittee said it found the phrase ''net short'' some 3,400 times in documents from Goldman related to the mortgage market. For example, the company wrote in a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission that ''during most of 2007, we maintained a net short subprime position and therefore stood to benefit from declining prices in the mortgage market.'' In September 2007, Goldman told employees that ''we were overall net short the mortgage market and thus had very strong results.''
Now, compare that to a statement from the bank in 2010: ''Goldman Sachs did not take a large directional 'bet' against the U.S. housing market.''
Reading those quotes back-to-back is the equivalent of hearing someone declaring it is raining when it is a sunny day with clear blue skies. It just doesn't make sense.
The confusion continues today.
''The testimony we gave was truthful and accurate and this is confirmed by the subcommittee's own report,'' Goldman said in a recent statement. ''We did not have a massive net short position because our short positions were largely offset by our long positions, and our financial results clearly demonstrate this point.''
To defend its stance, the bank notes that in 2007 it was short the mortgage market $3.8 billion and long $3.3 billion. In Goldman's mind, those positions were simply hedges - and the outcome could have gone either way.
But whether through brilliant bets or dumb luck, Goldman Sachs made $500 million from that short. In this case, Goldman was not just offsetting its risk. It was profiting from those bets, and quite a lot.
For Goldman to suggest otherwise -- as it has -- is almost silly.
Having studied Goldman's statements closely, it appears the firm decided to take a Clintonian approach to parsing its words. Notice that Goldman and Mr. Blankfein always qualify their denials of the firm's short bets by saying they were not ''massive'' or ''large'' or ''consistent.''
Such descriptions may be accurate. What's large, or even massive, may be in the eye of the beholder.
To Goldman, a $500 million net short position may seem tiny relative to the rest of the firm's positions. But $500 million is still a lot of money; to the rest of the world it might even seem ''large'' and ''massive.''
Goldman's other qualifier -- about its positions not being consistent -- is also true. There were times that Goldman was not net short and there times when the firm tried to reduce its short positions.
But semantics should not be the issue. Goldman should be proud of its prescient call about housing.
It was better for its shareholders, and frankly better for the taxpayers, that the firm was smart enough to short the mortgage market. After all, Goldman didn't require a big bailout like Citigroup or the American International Group.
As Josh Birnbaum, a former star trader at Goldman who pushed that short position, told Mr. Cohan, ''The net result of the mortgage department in 2007 was a record year. Think about that statement: making a record amount in a year when everyone else was losing their shirts.''
So Goldman, take a bow. Don't hide behind the curtain.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (88%); CARL LEVIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



458 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Talks on U.S. Presence in Afghanistan After Pullout Unnerve Region

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- First, American officials were talking about July 2011 as the date to begin the withdrawal from Afghanistan. Then, the Americans and their NATO allies began to talk about transition, gradually handing over control of the war to the Afghans until finally pulling out in 2014. Now, however, the talk is all about what happens after 2014.
Afghanistan and the United States are in the midst of negotiating what they are calling a Strategic Partnership Declaration for beyond 2014.
Critics, including many of Afghanistan's neighbors, call it the Permanent Bases Agreement -- or, in a more cynical vein, Great Game 3.0, drawing a comparison with the ill-fated British and Russian rivalry in the region during the 19th and 20th centuries. 
It is without doubt a delicate process, and one that comes at a critical time. Afghan officials have expressed concern that the negotiations could scuttle peace talks with the Taliban, now in their early stages, because the insurgents have insisted that foreign forces must leave the country before they will deal. That they are already talking is an indication they are willing to compromise on the timing of a withdrawal -- but it is hard to imagine Taliban acceptance of a lasting American presence here.
Formal talks on a long-term agreement began last month under Marc Grossman, the official who has replaced Richard C. Holbrooke, the diplomat who died in December, as the Obama administration's envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, and a delegation visited Kabul under the direction of Frank Ruggiero, a State Department official who ran the Kandahar Provincial Reconstruction Team until last year.
The reaction regionally was immediate. The Iranian interior minister made a rushed visit to Kabul, followed shortly by the national security advisers of India and Russia.
The Russians, though generally supportive of NATO's role in Afghanistan, were alarmed at the prospect of a long-term Western presence.
''The Russian side supports the development of Afghanistan by its own forces in all areas -- security, economic, political -- only by its own forces, especially after 2014,'' said Stepan Anikeev, a political adviser at the Russian Embassy here. ''How is transition possible with these bases?''
American officials have hastened to assure Russia and other neighbors about their intentions after 2014. Mr. Grossman made a visit late last month to Moscow to do so. And officials from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on down have insisted that any presence after 2014 would not mean permanent bases.
It is a ''long-term framework for our bilateral cooperation,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a speech to the Asia Society on Feb. 18.
''In no way should our enduring commitment be misunderstood as a desire by America or our allies to occupy Afghanistan against the will of its people,'' Mrs. Clinton said, adding, ''We do not seek any permanent American military bases in their country.''
The Russians, however, have complained that any talk of a foreign troop presence in Afghanistan after 2014 violates international understandings, including one made in a joint statement by President Obama and President Dmitri A. Medvedev on June 24 supporting a neutral status for Afghanistan.
Afghan officials have acknowledged, however, that the talks do countenance some sort of long-term bases after 2014, if only for the purpose of continued training of Afghan troops. ''What we're discussing is a long-term strategic framework agreement,'' said Ashraf Ghani, an adviser to President Hamid Karzai who is one of the Afghan negotiators. ''The U.S. has many 10- to 25-year-long agreements, a wide range of agreements.''
''The important thing now is that the sense of abandonment that was in the air last year is gone now,'' he said.
One person's long-term base is another's permanent base, however -- and in the region many people took Mrs. Clinton's assurances as proof that the United States was not leaving, whatever the bases are called.
''A 10- or 20-years agreement can be prolonged at any time,'' Mr. Anikeev said. ''And we have no guarantee they're not permanent.''
''The Americans have not been honest about this, even among themselves,'' said Mullah Attullah Lodin, deputy chairman of the High Peace Council of Afghanistan, which is charged with leading reconciliation efforts with the Taliban. ''One says we are not building bases, another says we are building them, and it's very confusing.''
The big concern, he said, was that if any such agreement were reached, it would make it that much harder to enter into serious peace talks with the Taliban. ''That is the first thing the Taliban demand is the withdrawal of foreign troops,'' Mullah Lodin said.
Rangin Dadfar Spanta, the national security adviser to Mr. Karzai, disagreed. ''Reconciliation and a strategic relationship, they are not contradictory to one another. We have the same goals, peace and stability in Afghanistan, and elimination of sanctuaries and bases for terrorism, that is for the common good.''
Despite such worries, American and Afghan officials are negotiating on an accelerated timetable, with the Americans hoping to come to an agreement by July, when the first withdrawals of some American troops are to start, diplomats say.
''The Afghans are very worried about after 2014,'' said a European diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of diplomatic delicacies. ''They're trying to extract from the West as much as they can now.''
Mr. Ghani said that Afghan officials were hoping to win agreement on the transfer of Provincial Reconstruction Teams, which dispense aid from the United States and NATO countries directly to projects in the Afghan countryside, to Afghan government control. In general, the Afghans want to see more aid money funneled through their government, and they also want to see a reduced presence of the United Nations.
Then there is the issue of how the Afghans will be able to pay for their greatly enlarged police and military, which by some estimates will require $10 billion a year to sustain come 2014 -- 10 times the Afghan government's annual tax revenues.
''The whole mindset is to get as much as possible in the course of the next couple years,'' the European diplomat said. ''They really understand that they won't get as much as they used to get, and they're desperate to get as much as they can.''
One regional diplomat, speaking on the condition of anonymity for similar reasons, said the Americans were equally concerned to keep a long-term or permanent foothold in Afghanistan for their own interests as well.
''There was a time when the Americans were struggling to find one base in Central Asia,'' he said. ''Here is a place where they can have all the bases they want, and Afghanistan is a place between two potential nuclear Islamic powers, Iran and Pakistan.''
''There are forces of reaction who are itching to fire the starting gun on Great Game 3.0, and the insurgents will try to exploit this,'' said Mark Sedwill, the NATO senior civilian representative in Afghanistan, in a recent speech.
Reaching accord among the diplomats on a Strategic Partnership Declaration will only be a first step. Mr. Karzai has already said any such agreement would have to be put to a nationwide loya jirga, a tribal assembly that acts as referendum on important issues.
''In general, people in Afghanistan are against foreign forces,'' Mullah Lodin, the negotiator, said. ''I don't think the loya jirga will ever support foreign forces in the country.''
Mr. Spanta recognized the difficulty. ''We have to convince the Afghan people there is something for us in this,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers played video games at Kandahar Airfield. The United States will begin drawing down its forces in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TALIBAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



459 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: 'SoBro' and 'ProCro' NoJoke to Assemblyman

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY


HIGHLIGHT: Hakeem Jeffries plans to introduce a bill that would prevent real estate brokers from making up neighborhood names, whether SoBro (for South Bronx) or ProCro (for the area between Prospect Heights and Crown Heights). 

 BODY:
Updated, 3:46 p.m. | It's one of the oldest tricks in real estate: pretend that a property is in a more desirable neighborhood and demand more rent or a higher sale price. In other words, advertise that an apartment is in, say, Prospect Heights rather than Crown Heights.
When brokers cannot do that, some make up a whole new name, like ProCro for the area between Prospect Heights and Crown Heights. Or they rename places like the South Bronx "SoBro" and South Harlem "SoHa."
Assemblyman Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat, has little patience for this kind of broker babble. He said he would introduce a bill next week to require a series of approvals for new neighborhood names - from the community board, the City Council and the mayor.
His bill would also punish real estate brokers who promoted property with an unofficial, made-up name. The bill calls for fines and the possible suspension or revocation of brokers' licenses. 
He said he was simply trying to bring order to the chaos out there. 
"It's the Wild West in New York City right now," he said. "Brokers are allowed to essentially pull names out of thin air in order to rebrand a neighborhood and have the effect of raising rents or home prices." 
Mr. Jeffries said that the problem started when neighborhoods like NoLita were carved out of Little Italy. He says he was no happier when brokers started calling southern Harlem "SoHa," the South Bronx "SoBro," and parts of Sunset Park "Greenwood Heights" because of its proximity to Greenwood Cemetery.
"Some real estate brokers have found it's more desirable to rename a neighborhood after the dead than those who are living," he said.
Mr. Jeffries said he had tried to contact the Real Estate Board of New York but had not received a reply. 
Michael Slattery, senior vice president at the real estate board, responded: "Neighborhood boundaries are difficult to define and always changing. It is difficult to legislate the use of an official name when these neighborhood names are not legally defined."

        
Big Deal | Hudson St. Penthouse Back on the Market
        
Big Deal | Top Hamptons Sales Regained Traction
        
Big Deal | Buy One, Get One (Sort Of)
        
Big Deal | Norman Mailer Apartment for Sale
        
Big Deal | Paying Extra to Smell the Flowers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CITIES (73%); BRANDING (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%) Hakeem Jeffries; Hakeem S. Jeffries; real estate; Jeffries, Hakeem; Housing and Real Estate; Real Estate Brokers; Real Estate Board of New York; New York City; Housing & Economy

ORGANIZATION: Real Estate Board of New York

PERSON: HAKEEM JEFFRIES (95%) Jeffries, Hakeem

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



460 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: The Lives Sports Change Indelibly

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
Basketball as a way to rise above the reservation. Surfing as a way to get off the island (in this case, Papua New Guinea). Cricket as a way to transcend third-world stereotypes. Reaching for a foul ball as a way to ruin your life.
Transformation may be the subject of every sports movie, in one way or another, but the seven documentaries that constitute the Tribeca/ESPN Sports Film series -- part of the Tribeca Film Festival, which opens on Wednesday night -- make a fetish of it. 
In fact, the most interesting of the films, Eric Drath's ''Renee,'' is about a change so radical that athletics is almost the least interesting part of the story: the transformation of the tennis-playing surgeon Richard Raskind into the professional tennis player Renee Richards.
Ms. Richards, now 76, let Mr. Drath film at her upstate New York home, where we see the modest, cozy house and the vintage sports cars, parked under the trees, like two sides of her brain. She emerges in the interviews as a fascinating, melancholy figure, fiercely intelligent and inherently self-dramatizing.
But Renee Richards isn't even the best thing about ''Renee.'' The heart of the film is a chorus of her friends, or former friends: men and women from the same world of New York private schools, Ivy League colleges, Manhattan hospitals and amateur tennis tournaments that nurtured the hard-charging Dick Raskind. Their tribal resemblance and their back-breaking attempts to understand their old buddy's choices create the feeling of a large, exasperated but loving family.
A similar narrative dynamic is at work in Jonathan Hock's ''Off the Rez,'' about the last two high school seasons of the Umatilla Indian basketball player Shoni Schimmel. A strong, rangy point guard with a deadly shot and ferocious moves to the basket, Shoni has the kind of sheer, joyous athleticism that can leave you slack-jawed as you watch.
On the other hand, she can also be closed off and a little blank, the prerogatives of the star, even as a high school junior. Luckily for ''Off the Rez,'' Shoni's parents, Ceci Moses and Rick Schimmel, provide the same kind of character and drama in daily life that their daughter generates on the court. The movie cannily doles out the details of Ms. Moses's and Mr. Schimmel's own athletic exploits; the story of how his baseball career ended sneaks up on you like an inside fastball.
Ms. Moses, who takes a coaching job in Portland and moves her children all the way across Oregon to find a better brand of basketball for Shoni, is the film's hot-burning, quick-to-anger emotional center and its real star. (The filmmakers never address the relationship between Ms. Moses's employment and Shoni's enrollment at the same school.)
A mother is a significant figure in ''Renee,'' as well, though she never appears on screen: Ms. Richards's mother was a pioneering and, from the sound of it, extremely strong-willed psychiatrist.
The maternal presence is also felt in the German filmmaker Sebastian Dehnhardt's ''Klitschko,'' about the boxing brothers Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko, and in Pablo Croce's ''Like Water,'' about the Ultimate Fighting standout Anderson Silva.
The mothers of these brawling boys, however, are not taskmasters but talismans, loving presences to be coddled and thanked. This is of a piece with the relatively less complex and more promotional nature of these films -- the transformation we're talking about here is the standard one involving money and fame, and the two movies tick off the highlights of their subjects' careers in a turbocharged manner that will be exciting for aficionados but possibly monotonous for anyone else.
Both offer rewards, though. The Klitschko brothers, the cut-up Vitali and the bashful Wladimir, are endearing and articulate, and the film includes eerie footage of the aftermath of the Chernobyl nuclear accident, which their father helped to clean up. The best moments of ''Like Water'' come right at the beginning, in a film clip of an icy Bruce Lee explaining that the fighter should ''be like water making its way through cracks.''
''Fire in Babylon,'' by Stevan Riley, and ''Splinters,'' by Adam Pesce, are both stories of third-world athletes tackling commercial, first-world sports. ''Babylon'' is a story of past triumph, recounting the success of the West Indies cricket teams of the 1970s and '80s in the reminiscences of former stars like Viv Richards, Andy Roberts and Michael Holding, interspersed with musical numbers, including a terrific tribute to Mr. Richards by the calypso singer King Short Shirt. It's unusual among sports films for its straightforward discussion of the role of physical intimidation and the threat of injury in winning (something that may surprise Americans who think of cricket as a gentlemanly, if not effete, sport).
Violence also looms in the alternately cheerful and disheartening surfing film ''Splinters,'' though it's strictly on the sidelines. The local Papua New Guinea surfers prepping for an inaugural Western-style competition -- with the promise of a training trip to Australia for the winners -- must negotiate not only waves but also the everyday dangers of life in a country with an extremely depressed economy and a patriarchal, chest-thumping social framework.
The darkest view of sports among the Tribeca/ESPN films is likely to belong to ''Catching Hell,'' by the prolific, Oscar-winning documentarian Alex Gibney (''Taxi to the Dark Side,'' ''Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer''), which was not ready to be screened for critics. (It was originally scheduled in, and then pulled from, ESPN's ''30 for 30'' series of television documentaries last year.)
Mr. Gibney's subject is Steve Bartman, the man whose name has lived in infamy in Chicago since his awkward attempt to catch a foul ball in the left-field stands was blamed for keeping the Cubs out of the World Series in 2003. ''Catching Hell'' feels particularly timely in the wake of the brutal beating of a San Francisco Giants fan outside Dodger Stadium earlier this month, another reminder that not all of the changes that sports effect in us are for the better.
The Tribeca Film Festival continues through May 1 at various theaters in Manhattan; tribecafilm.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL: A sports documentary series includes, clockwise from left: the tennis player Renee Richards, in ''Renee''
the basketball player Shoni Schimmel, in ''Off the Rez''
the baseball player Bill Buckner, in ''Catching Hell''
and the mixed martial arts fighter Anderson Silva, in ''Like Water.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ESPN FILMS
ALASTAIR CHRISTOPHER/HOCK FILMS
LEE JAFFE) (C1)
Clockwise from top left, Steve Bartman's muffed moment in ''Catching Hell,'' directed by Alex Gibney
Anderson Silva training in Pablo Croce's ''Like Water''
West Indies cricket players in Stevan Riley's ''Fire in Babylon''
a surfer in Adam Pesce's ''Splinters''
and Shoni Schimmel with her mother, Ceci Moses, in Jonathan Hock's ''Off the Rez.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ESPN FILMS
LEE JAFFE
PATRICK EAGAR
MATT PESCE
 HOCK FILMS) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); FILM (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ATHLETES (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); AMATEUR SPORTS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); FILM GENRES (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (68%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (64%); BASEBALL (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (74%) PAPUA NEW GUINEA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



461 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Good Advice From S.& P.: Standard & Poor's calls for a real, serious discussion of the nation's financial problems

 BODY:
Anything the credit rating agencies say has to be taken with a block of salt. In the run-up to the financial crisis, they were enablers of excess, happily slapping AAA ratings on the toxic assets of their Wall Street customers. The same happened with Enron and other debacles. 
So it was encouraging to see markets recover quickly from the news on Monday that Standard & Poor's had lowered its outlook on the United States rating from stable to negative. Still, the announcement is worth reflecting on.
The gist of the report is that the credit standing of the United States will be impaired unless credible political action is undertaken to address its long-term budget deficits and large national debt burden.
In what amounts to a warning to lawmakers and other government leaders to get moving on deficit reduction, S.& P. said that there was a 1-in-3 chance that it could lower the AAA rating of the United States government within two years. That could cause interest rates to rise and to stay high, increasing the burden of paying back the debt and weakening the economy at large.
If the S.& P. warning convinces Congressional Republicans not to play games later this spring, when votes will be needed to raise the nation's debt limit, it will have done some good. Republican rhetoric to the contrary, a debt limit vote is not the appropriate place to make a stand about future budgets. It pertains to obligations already incurred -- like the Medicare drug benefit and the war in Afghanistan, both from the Bush era and financed by creditors who expect and deserve to be paid in full and on time.
If the warning is misconstrued to mean that deep and immediate spending cuts are needed -- as Republicans have claimed -- it will be counterproductive. Even S.& P. noted that given the difficult compromises ahead, the earliest plausible date to begin deficit reduction is late 2013, when the budget for fiscal year 2014 is due. What investors need to see before then, the report noted, is the emergence and debate of credible budget plans, with an eye toward implementation after the election in 2012. That is both politically realistic and economically sound because deep deficit reduction before then would risk derailing the economic recovery.
As credit raters, S.& P. and the other ratings agencies have squandered their credibility. But as a launcher of a shot across the bow in the budget battle, S.& P. did well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); MEDICARE (68%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



462 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 591 words

PERSON: Allan Blakeney 

HEADLINE: Allan Blakeney, 85, Pioneer Of Canadian Health Care

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Allan Blakeney, the health minister of the Canadian province of Saskatchewan who helped start North America's first tax-financed universal health care system in 1962, and was later the province's premier, died Saturday at his home in Saskatoon. He was 85.
The Saskatchewan government said the cause was liver cancer. 
In 1946, the government of Tommy Douglas, then Saskatchewan's premier, enacted universal insurance coverage for hospitalization. Mr. Douglas's successor, Woodrow Lloyd expanded the program in 1962 to include the costs of medical care provided by doctors.
Nine out of 10 doctors responded by going on strike, people demonstrated in support of the doctors and newspapers editorialized in their favor. Mr. Blakeney, as the health minister in Mr. Lloyd's government, became the main negotiator with the physicians. He succeeded in keeping the new system -- partly by emphasizing its lower cost -- but compromised to give doctors the right to charge fees for services, rather than going on salary.
Mr. Blakeney later called the brouhaha the ''the greatest social conflict I was involved in.'' By 1966, universal medical coverage had been extended to all Canadians. Opposition to the plan in Saskatchewan, however, helped the Liberal Party defeat Mr. Lloyd's government in 1964.
Mr. Blakeney remained a member of the provincial legislature and practiced law. But by 1970, he had become leader of the provincial New Democratic Party, and he led it to victory the next year.
As Saskatchewan's premier, a post he held until 1982, he put into effect a flurry of programs he called a New Deal for People. These included a dental program for children, a prescription drug program, subsidized housing, home care and a guaranteed income supplement for the elderly poor. He helped pass a law to allow the government to purchase land from older farmers, so it in turn could rent the land to their children, making it financially feasible for them to stay on the family homestead.
Mr. Blakeney aggressively increased the fees charged by the province for mining potash, a component of fertilizer. After foreign producers, largely American, refused to pay, Mr. Blakeney's government seized the mines of companies producing more than 40 percent of the province's potash, paying what it said was a fair market price. Both the companies and the United States government protested, but the action stood.
Mr. Blakeney also became a force on the national scene during the discussions over Canada's new Constitution in the early 1980s. He successfully argued for more power for provincial legislatures.
Allan Emrys Blakeney was born on Sept. 7, 1925, in Bridgewater, Nova Scotia, and grew up dreaming of being a sea captain. He earned a law degree from Dalhousie University in Halifax, then studied at Oxford as a Rhodes scholar, earning a bachelor's degree in politics, philosophy and economics. He worked as a civil servant in the Saskatchewan government until he was elected to the provincial legislature in 1960. In addition to being provincial health minister, he was also minister of education and treasurer.
He ran unsuccessfully to return to the premier's job in 1986, then retired from politics two years later. Mr. Blakeney's first wife, the former Molly Schwartz, died in 1957. His survivors include his wife, the former Anne Gorham, and four children.
Mr. Blakeney watched the United States' debate on health care, which resulted in the Affordable Health Care for America Act of 2009, with keen interest. He called the American law ''a painfully small step.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Allan Blakeney in 1974. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); CANCER (71%); STRIKES (70%); FERTILIZERS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); POTASH SODA & BORATE MINING (66%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); LEGISLATION (65%); LIVER DISEASE (57%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (99%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (79%); HIMACHAL PRADESH, INDIA (58%) CANADA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (58%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



463 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Digging For Ramps: Too Deep?

BYLINE: By INDRANI SEN

 BODY:
FOR Ashton Berdine, a ramble in the woods to dig for the pungent tender-leaved wild leeks known as ramps has been a springtime ritual since he was a teenager. Even today, at 45, as the first buds appear on trees, he takes his family into the woods near his home in Elkins, W.Va., to dig a few ramps to cook with fajitas.
But lately, Mr. Berdine, a botanist with the environmental group the Nature Conservancy, has had to hike deeper and deeper to find ramps, he said. The acres-wide patches that used to carpet the forest floor are becoming elusive. Mr. Berdine has seen areas where every single ramp has been scraped up, he said, as if by ''wild hogs rooting in the forest.''
Earlier this month, he caught a glimpse of one of those hogs. 
''I pulled up behind a truck at a stoplight,'' he said. ''And I just saw bags and bags of ramps, piled high in the truck bed.''
Over the last two decades, the lucrative market for ramps during their short early-spring season has drawn a horde of new diggers, who cart them out of the forest in unprecedented quantities. Some see the bounty as limitless, but Mr. Berdine is one of several botanists who think ramp frenzy may be taking a toll.
''I think we're having an impact on ramp populations,'' said James Chamberlain, a research scientist with the United States Forest Service. ''I would say that we're overharvesting the plants.''
Long revered as a spring tonic -- a nutritious green treat after months of dusty potatoes from the root cellar -- ramps grow wild in the woods from Georgia to Quebec. In the South, ramp festivals have been held for generations.
But since the early 1990s, the garlicky allium, with a slender white bulb, dark red stem and succulent green leaves, has gone from a Southern belle to a big-city starlet, with breathless articles in glossy magazines, top billing on restaurant menus and a paparazzi-like reception when the first crates arrive at farmers' markets in April. And while many people have never understood what the fuss was about, the local-food movement and a growing interest in wild and foraged plants have fueled demand and pushed prices as high as $12 a pound.
''We're so over winter, and we're so ecstatic about ramps,'' said the New York City chef Marco Canora, who held a ramps dinner April 12 at Hearth Restaurant to celebrate his first crate from upstate New York. ''There's nothing local right now. These ramps are the first local spring thing.''
There is no definitive data on whether ramp populations have been damaged, said Lawrence Davis-Hollander, a Massachusetts ethnobotanist. But now is the time to answer that question, he said, before ramps become as rare as ginseng, the medicinal root that used to be plentiful in America's woods. ''At the rate we're harvesting,'' Mr. Davis-Hollander said, ''the honest answer is we don't know the effect we're having.''
In Quebec, the plant is listed as threatened, and its sale has been banned since 1995.
In Great Smoky Mountains National Park in North Carolina and Tennessee, ramp harvesting was banned in 2004 after a study there found that the only way to prevent damage to a ramp patch was to harvest less than 10 percent once every 10 years. The Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians has argued that its traditional way of harvesting ramps in the park, by cutting off the tips of the leaves, does not kill the plant.
In New York State, the Department of Environmental Conservation does not regulate ramp-picking, said Lori Severino, an agency spokeswoman. ''As far as we know,'' she said, ''wild leeks are not being overharvested in New York.''
Indeed, on a still-chilly day earlier this month in upstate New York, it was hard to imagine that ramps could be in trouble. Over acres of forest beside a gurgling stream in Sullivan County, their green tips poked through the blanket of dried leaves, ready to unfurl.
Rick Bishop, a farmer from Roscoe, N.Y., who helped introduce New York City chefs to ramps at his Union Square Greenmarket stand 20 years ago, bounded through the trees, crouching occasionally to plunge his fingers into the soil and fill his large hands with scallion-like baby ramps.
''It's a carpet up here,'' Mr. Bishop yelled. ''The whole hill is loaded with them.''
By his count, Mr. Bishop and five of his workers from Mountain Sweet Berry Farm pick from 18,000 to 20,000 pounds of ramps a year for New York City restaurants and the Greenmarket. He is careful not to hit the same patch more than once every five years, so that the plants have time to recover.
''It's common sense,'' Mr. Bishop said. ''If you're living off that product, you don't want it to go away.''
Although he has occasionally seen damaged patches, he said, he thinks that ramps are far from endangered in Sullivan County.
''If you moved the U.S. Army to Roscoe and made it base camp,'' he said, ''you couldn't pick them all.''
With Christopher Field, a young chef, Mr. Bishop is working to devise a GPS-based map of the ramp patches that his crew picks, mostly with permission from landowners. The two have used Google Earth, soil maps and topographical maps to predict the spots where ramps are most likely to grow and to expand the picking rotation.
Mike Kokas, an owner of Paisley Farm in Columbia County, has foraged for ramps on his property since he recognized them from a picture in Saveur magazine 16 years ago. He said he trains his workers to harvest only older plants grown into small clumps connected by a rhizome, or an underground stem.
Even so, he worries about the sustainability of his seven-acre ramp patch. Miscommunication with Spanish-speaking workers has led to some overharvesting, he said, but what really makes it difficult to scale back are the New York City chefs and their insatiable appetite for spring ramps.
''Listen, there's a time when those ramps paid my mortgage, and I really needed that money,'' Mr. Kokas said.
How to harvest ramps sustainably is a controversial subject. Seeds take 6 to 18 months to germinate, and the plants take 5 to 7 years to produce seeds.
Mr. Chamberlain of the Forest Service advises foragers to avoid taking small, immature or flowering plants. He urges them to take only half of each ramp clump and replant the rest, along with the rhizome.
He also suggested that foragers scatter ramp seed on their patches in the fall, to replenish them.
''I'm not trying to shut them down,'' he said of ramp foragers. ''I think very highly of the cultural and economic aspects of ramp harvesting. I think it has to be part of the culture, as it has been for 300 years. But I think we have to manage them as a natural resource, as we do timber.''
The Forest Service is undertaking a mapping project similar to Mr. Bishop's, with the aim of identifying ramp patches and encouraging landowners to cultivate ramps in wooded areas or in shaded beds.
But for some, the idea of a farmed ramp misses the point.
Ken Maguire, an amateur forager from High Falls, N.Y., hunts for ramps and mushrooms in the woods to cook at home or to swap for a meal at a local restaurant. To him, foraged food is as much about the process as the product.
''If you're going to cultivate it, to me that takes away the allure of it being a wild thing,'' he said. ''I mean, foraging is fun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOW BOUNTIFUL?: Freshly dug, early spring ramps. (D1)
IN THE HUNT: Ken Maguire, above, in a ramp patch in Ulster County, N.Y. At right, Rick Bishop, in his greenhouse at Mountain Sweet Berry Farm in Roscoe, N.Y., goes over his ramp maps.
 A GIFT OF NATURE: Early spring ramps sprouting up on the forest floor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER MAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANY (90%); RESTAURANTS (86%); BIOLOGY (76%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%); FOREST SERVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



464 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Checkout Coupon Company Joins Boom in Online Discount Offers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A COMPANY long known for providing shoppers with coupons at store checkouts is joining the popular, crowded category of online coupons.
The Catalina Marketing Corporation is introducing Coupon Network by Catalina, to be found online at Couponnetwork.com. Advertisers with offers on the Web site include pantry mainstays like Campbell Soup, General Mills, Kellogg, Kraft Foods, Nestle, Reckitt Benckiser and Unilever.
There are also some unexpected offers on Couponnetwork.com, among them savings on toys from the Fisher-Price division of Mattel and light bulbs from General Electric. 
Coupon Network is an addition to the decades-old businesses that Catalina calls shopper-driven marketing, intended to help advertisers more efficiently and effectively reach target audiences. Catalina estimates that it distributes more than $6.5 billion in coupons to shoppers each year through its printers at store checkout counters.
The checkout coupons provided by Catalina compete for consumer favor with coupons in free-standing inserts, which are the coupon booklets carried in Sunday newspapers; coupons in magazines and so-called penny-saver publications; and coupons distributed by direct mail.
Catalina is so well known for checkout coupons that many devoted couponers, as avid discount-seekers refer to themselves, call the offers ''Catalinas.'' There are few higher accolades in marketing than a brand becoming synonymous with a product, whether it is Band-Aid, Kleenex or Q-Tip.
Still, the online coupon field is alluring, because it is booming. Two factors are feeding its growth.
One is the increasing influence of the Internet in everyday life. Not only are there printers in millions of homes, readily printing out coupons from Web sites, but there is also the phenomenon of social daily-deal coupons from companies like Groupon and LivingSocial.
The other factor benefiting online coupons is the recent bumpy economy. Coupon redemption rates had been falling for decades until the recent recession.
Although online coupons account for only 1 percent of all coupons distributed, they account for about 10 percent of all coupons redeemed, said Susan Gear, group vice president for digital at Catalina in St. Petersburg, Fla.
Ms. Gear also noted that consumers ''can print out coupons for exactly the products they want,'' which adds to their appeal.
For some time, Ms. Gear said, Catalina had been considering an entry into the online coupon realm, joining Web sites like Coolsavings.com, Coupons.com, Couponmom.com, Redplum.com and Smartsource.com.
The idea gathered momentum after Catalina took technological steps in the last couple of years that included offering coupons by mobile e-mail, handling Target's coupons section on its Web site and acquiring E-centives, an Internet coupon company.
In developing the Web site, Catalina consulted with advertisers, retailers and bloggers, among them the ''Super-Coupon Queen,'' Jill Cataldo.
''They've got a lot of great printable coupons'' on Couponnetwork.com, said Ms. Cataldo, of Huntley, Ill., who has a Web site, Jillcataldo.com, and writes ''Super-Couponing Tips,'' a nationally syndicated column.
Coupon Network ''is doing a good job giving us coupons we might not have seen before and are pretty relevant to what I buy,'' she added.
Those are welcome words to an advertiser like Karl Schmidt, director for promotional marketing at General Mills in Golden Valley, Minn. ''We've been going digital with print-at-home coupons since tests in 2001,'' he said.
''In the early days of print-at-home, six, seven years ago, there were issues with redemption,'' Mr. Schmidt said, as retailers declined to accept them. As that largely disappeared, digital coupons have become ''a significant percentage of our spending,'' he added.
''We get great results; it's the perfect self-targeting medium,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''And they're available 24/7.''
Also, ''digital coupons attract younger consumers,'' he said, ''who aren't buying the Sunday newspapers'' that carry free-standing inserts.
In the digital coupon realm, Catalina executives ''are playing come from behind, which they're probably not used to,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''But they have strong content and a strong sales force.''
Another point in Catalina's favor is that Couponnetwork.com includes a type of Catalina in-store offer, called YourBucks, that are prized by couponers like Ms. Cataldo because they offer discounts off whatever they buy the next time they shop rather than savings on a single specified item the way regular coupons do.
The retailers whose checkouts have been home to Catalina's printers are unlikely to bemoan the company's expansion online because they, too, have been going digital.
''More and more of our offerings are moving online as well, replacing circular coupons,'' said Karen Meleta, a vice president at ShopRite, part of the Wakefern Food Corporation in Keasbey, N.J.
There is a section of Shoprite.com devoted to YourBucks along with other coupons.
Ms. Gear said Catalina has also been considering initiatives in areas like daily deals and group buying, adding, ''We're working with our clients to figure out how to market in this new world.''
''There's a fun, engaging, gaming element to couponing,'' Ms. Gear said. ''We are exploring how you take the concept of social networks and add that to it.''
Among the attractive aspects of how social coupons work are the ''element of urgency to the daily-deal buying,'' she added, and their interruptive nature as companies ''send out texts or e-mails.''
Because Catalina is privately held, she added, the company would not disclose how much it has spent on developing Coupon Network. Catalina is owned by the investment firm Hellman & Friedman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One page of many coupons offered on Catalina Marketing's Web site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL COUPONS (95%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); WEB SITES (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); FOOD MFG (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: CATALINA MARKETING CORP (91%); GENERAL MILLS INC (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); NESTLE SA (57%); RECKITT BENCKISER GROUP PLC (57%); GROUPON INC (53%); LIVINGSOCIAL INC (53%); COUPONS INC (51%); Q INTERACTIVE INC (51%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%); UNIA (AMS) (57%); UNA (BIT) (57%); UNA (AMS) (57%); UN (NYSE) (57%); ULVR (LSE) (57%); UL (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (57%); RB (LSE) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



465 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Shrewd Bet In Galleon Case

BYLINE: By REYNOLDS HOLDING and WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund, may soon know the result of his gamble. Closing arguments are expected on Wednesday in his insider trading trial. With the evidence against him looking strong, it's not obvious why he risked fighting the charges. But the decision was smarter than it looks.
The choices were all rotten for Mr. Rajaratnam. He could have pleaded guilty and agreed with prosecutors on a sentence. But doing so would have locked him into a tight range of possible time behind bars, with no leeway to argue for less. Alternatively, he could have pleaded guilty with no deal and asked for leniency when sentenced. Either choice would have precluded an appeal. 
Yet it isn't surprising the once high-flying hedge fund manager suffered opprobrium for going to trial. Witnesses at the trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan testified about breaking the law to give him inside information. Tape recordings revealed chatter about still-confidential corporate events. Other conversations suggested a cover-up using bogus e-mails. The trial has aired what appears to be the dirtiest of the laundry.
Even so, forgoing a plea has already produced benefits. The prosecution knocked down the number of charges to 14, from 37. As important, Mr. Rajaratnam's lawyers had six weeks to spin the idea that Galleon gathered information from all over to create a mosaic of data on a company. Any single tidbit, even from the inside, was not important enough to be material to an investment decision, the defense contended. So trading on individual nuggets couldn't have been illegal.
This defense is controversial, but not frivolous. It paints a picture of a diligent, if aggressive, investor. Only one juror has to buy it to spare Mr. Rajaratnam. And even if none does, the judge might -- and he has discretion to lighten any sentence.
It could all backfire, with the jury and judge concluding the Galleon founder is an even bigger crook than many expect. But that's always a risk. In most cases, Mr. Rajaratnam is no worse off -- and potentially better -- than he would be had he pleaded guilty. And this way, if the worst happens, he can claim he was nailed by an ignorant jury and appeal. All he has to lose is the cost of his lawyers, and he's a billionaire.
A Time to Hedge
South Korean stocks offer an obvious play on Japan's postquake woes and a United States recovery. But it's a risky trade, one vulnerable to near-term surprises in economic data. Investors venturing to Korea need to hedge against bad news in the United States, or good news in Japan.
Seoul's equity market has been among the world's best performers in the month since the Japanese disaster, climbing 10 percent. With Japan's production of cars and microchips hobbled by shortages of power and parts, foreign investors are betting South Korean companies will fill the gap. They've loaded up on at least $4.1 billion in South Korean shares since the quake.
That has produced some outsize investment winners, like Hyundai BNG Steel, whose shares have nearly doubled since March 15. Even so, South Korean stocks still seem decent bargains by most measures, trading at just over 10 times projected earnings. Shares of SK Holdings, the semiconductor maker, have climbed 45 percent but still trade at roughly 9 times projected earnings.
Risks abound, however. If Japan can restore production of critical materials and components within three months, the South Korean substitution bonanza may never materialize. And with the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing ending in June, it's unclear America's recovery will continue.
South Korea's domestic outlook isn't so rosy, either. The economy is especially vulnerable to high oil prices. And the central bank is already battling inflation with a potentially dangerous mix of rate increases and currency appreciation. The won has gained 15 percent since last May. If it is allowed to rise too fast, exporters will suffer. If authorities push rates up too quickly, South Korea's indebted households could start defaulting.
For investors, rising exports and a climbing currency present a heady mixture. They would be well advised to hedge their South Korean stock positions with either a smattering of zero-coupon Korean bonds, longer-dated put options or by short-selling the index. South Korea is all the rage this spring, but a new season could bring a change in the investment climate, too.
REYNOLDS HOLDING and WAYNE ARNOLD
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2011

 CORRECTION:
The Reuters Breakingviews column on Wednesday, about the insider trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund, misstated the party that eliminated 23 of the 37 charges against him. It was the prosecution, not the judge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raj Rajaratnam may have wisely chosen a jury trial on charges of insider trading. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); JUDGES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); WITNESSES (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); SENTENCING (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



466 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Engineers Cite Lengthy Cleanup

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Veterans of the Three Mile Island cleanup said that a much larger task faced the Japanese engineers who are trying contain and secure the damaged Fukushima Daiichi reactors. And Three Mile Island took 14 years.
Lake Barrett, the senior Nuclear Regulatory Commission engineer at Three Mile Island during the early phases of the cleanup said by comparison, ''it was a walk in the park compared to what they've got.''
The Fukushima Daiichi reactors are similar to those in Pennsylvania -- ''the cores are probably really similar, partially melted,'' Mr. Barrett said -- but engineers pointed out several key differences in the aftermath of the accidents. In Japan, four separate reactors are damaged, and fixing each one is complicated by the presence of its leaking neighbors. It will also require a major infusion of equipment to replace parts far from the reactor's core, like pumps and switchgear that were destroyed by the tsunami. 
In the short term, weather is a factor: according to engineers who managed the American cleanup, which ran from 1979 to 1993, Tokyo Electric Power has only a few weeks to patch up the three smashed secondary containments before the coming rainy season, when downpours could wash more contamination into the environment. And the company will have to carefully watch that the number of workers with the necessary skills do not burn out under the size of the task, or absorb so much radiation that they have to quit.
Still, Mr. Barrett and others say that the mess at Fukushima Daiichi can be contained, cleaned up and even securely wrapped up for long-term disposal. The plant may benefit from past experience, because it is the second major accident worldwide in a big water-cooled reactor, they say.
The first task, they agree, is to fill the reactors and the spent fuel pool with water that can be pumped out again, cooled and then returned to the reactors. That would sharply reduce the possibility of generating new hydrogen and new explosions, and would go a long way toward declaring that the plants were stable, a point that the N.R.C. observed recently that Fukushima Daiichi had not reached.
Right now the reactors are in ''feed and bleed'' mode, adding clean water and cooling the fuel by letting that water boil off or dribble out, but such bleeding allows radiation leakage. ''Whatever you bleed is letting cesium out,'' said Mr. Barrett, referring to the radioactive isotope. Cooling with recirculating water could end releases of radioactive materials, but will require new pumps and possibly new piping, experts said.
Before that new equipment can be installed, engineers will have to clean up the water in the basements of the reactor buildings, the turbine buildings and other structures. At Three Mile Island, water in the reactor building and the primary auxiliary building gave radiation doses as high as 1,000 rem an hour, said Ronald L. Freemerman, a Bechtel engineer who was the project manager of the cleanup. That meant a worker would hit the N.R.C.'s annual limit in about a minute. The water can be pumped through filters that will strain out the radioactive elements.
Engineers from Three Mile Island laid out the three next steps:
First, decontaminate the walls and floors, to hold down the potential radiation dose. ''They have to economize on how they expose these people,'' Mr. Freemerman said, or the company will run out of trained workers.
Second, rebuild the secondary containments of units 1, 2 and 4, and fix or replace the heavy cranes just beneath their ceilings. That would allow workers to defuel the reactor. That step alone took five years at Three Mile Island, where no buildings had to be rebuilt.
Third, peek inside the reactor vessel and figure out what tools will be needed to remove the wrecked fuel in the core. Three Mile Island was a surprise, Mr. Freemerman said, because so much of the core had melted and flowed beneath a support made of five plates of thick steel. Another veteran of the cleanup, Michael McGough, said only then did they realize they would need new remote-controlled tools to cut through the metal, to get to the material below.
Mr. McGough's technicians worked from a trailer outside the containment vessel, manipulating a cutting tool that was operating under about 40 feet of water. They also used long-handled picks and scoops to break apart the fused mass of ceramic fuel pellets and metal. ''Basically we dug our way down through that debris until we got everything removed,'' Mr. McGough said.
At Three Mile Island, technicians then painstakingly loaded debris into shielded casks, under water to shield themselves from radiation, and then brought the casks to the surface. Eventually about 150 tons of radioactive rubble was shipped to an Energy Department laboratory in Idaho Springs, Idaho, where it still sits, waiting, as all used American fuel does, for a final resting place.
Japan may have another option if the wrecked core isn't too thoroughly mixed with other materials. It already has a reprocessing plant, where old fuel is chopped up, dissolved in acid, and then sorted, with its plutonium being removed, and the uranium sorted out for possible re-use. But that process is likely years away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); WEATHER (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); TSUNAMIS (69%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



467 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Despite Uptick in March, Home Building Remains Slow

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Builders broke ground last month on the most new homes in six months, giving the weak housing market a slight lift.
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday that home construction rose 7.2 percent in March from February to a seasonally adjusted 549,000 units a year. Building permits, an indicator of future construction, rose 11.2 percent after hitting a five-decade low in February. 
Still, the building pace is far below the 1.2 million units a year that economists consider healthy. And March's improvement came after construction fell in February to its second-lowest level on records dating back more than a half-century.
Millions of foreclosures have forced home prices down. In some cities, prices are half of what they were before the housing market collapsed in 2006 and 2007. And more foreclosures are expected this year. Tight credit has made mortgage loans difficult to get, and many would-be buyers who could qualify for loans are reluctant to shop, fearing that prices will fall even further.
A sign of the battered industry is the number of new homes finished and ready to sell dropped in March to a seasonally adjusted 509,000 units, the lowest level on records dating back to 1968. And the number of homes now under construction has fallen to a four-decade low.
Single-family homes, which make up roughly 80 percent of home construction, rose 7.7 percent in March. Apartment and condominium construction rose 14.7 percent. Building permits increased to the highest level since December, spurred by a more than 28 percent jump in permits granted for apartment and condo buildings.
The increase in home construction activity was felt in most regions of the country. It rose 32.3 percent in the Midwest, 27.6 percent in the West and 5.4 percent in the Northeast. Construction fell 3.3 percent in the South.
The National Association of Home Builders, the trade group, said Monday that its index of industry sentiment for April fell one notch, to 16. That followed a one-point increase in March and four months of 16 readings. Any reading below 50 indicates negative sentiment about the housing market's future; the index has not been above that level since April 2006.
Most economists expect home prices -- and by extension home sales and construction -- to slip even further in 2011 before a modest recovery takes hold.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A housing complex under construction in Palo Alto, Calif., in February. Home building rose 7.2 percent last month to 549,000 units, still less than half what economists consider a healthy pace. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



468 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Study Emphasizes Importance of China's Transition to Electric Cars

BYLINE: By BRAD BERMAN

 BODY:
A STUDY prepared for the World Bank Transport Office in Beijing released today makes clear the urgency of China's transition to electric cars. According to ''The China New Vehicles Program: Challenges and Opportunities,'' prepared by PRTM, a management consulting firm, China's soaring consumption of imported oil could stifle the country's economy, while emissions from petroleum-powered vehicles could choke its cities with air pollution.
Seventy percent of Beijing's carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions come from transportation sources. China's oil consumption is expected to rise to 11.6 million barrels per day by 2020, from 7.6 million in 2007. Half its oil currently is imported. 
''This was recognizance,'' said Shomik Mehndiratta, lead transport specialist at the World Bank. ''Usually, we focus our urban transport work on walking, cycling, public transportation and land development to minimize auto travel, and we leave technology completely out of it. But all the analysis suggests that 50 percent of global carbon reductions in transportation will come from technology.''
Any financial support from the World Bank would be dwarfed by the Chinese government's commitment to spend $15 billion on building and selling electric cars in the next five years.
''The money is not the key here,'' said Oliver Hazimeh, head of the global e-mobility practice and a partner at PRTM. ''The bigger notion of this report is helping China figuring out what else needs to be addressed in the overall ecosystem to make E.V.'s work. It is a technical, business-modeling, policy-setting support role more than a financial one.''
As dire as the need to go electric is for China, the challenges in making the transition to electric vehicles are even more monumental, according to the PRTM study, and similar to the situation in the United States. The first several hundred plug-in cars started rolling on to American roadways earlier this year, but availability of vehicles is just the beginning.
The long list of challenges in China (and the United States) includes uncertainty about how much car charging infrastructure is needed; lack of standards for how and where vehicles will be charged; and the need for industries that have traditionally not worked together -- utilities and auto companies, for example -- to forge partnerships.
Then there's the elephant in the room: how to gain consumer acceptance for battery-powered cars when their driving range is shorter than gas or diesel vehicles but their costs are significantly higher. Helping China to reach massive scale of electric car production is expected to bring down those costs in the next five to 10 years.
According to Mr. Hazimeh, in both China and the United States different regions and constituents are each developing their own standards for vehicle and battery production, charging infrastructure and related business models.
''In China, you can't just go in as we do in the U.S., and say here's the money for parts solutions without looking at connecting the elements,'' he said.
The study recommends roughly $50 million in loans for pilot projects, from building charging infrastructure and related information networks to evaluating the commercial feasibility of re-using E.V. batteries in secondary markets.
The consequences extend beyond national borders, as China is now the world's largest auto market and is expected to become the world's largest producer of electric car batteries and drive systems. The Chinese automotive market is expected to grow to 30 million vehicles per year by 2030, from 12.9 million vehicles in 2009.
''The next stage is to take the lessons learned, and put it into a more coordinated aligned roadmap,'' Mr. Hazimeh said. ''Otherwise, you face a fragmentation of solutions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); CARBON MONOXIDE (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



469 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Shaking Off S.&P. View, Shares Rise on Earnings and Housing

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Jackie Calmes, Susanne Craig and Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street rose on Tuesday as investors focused on corporate earnings and the economy, moving on from the negative credit rating outlook given to the United States the previous day.
Stocks changed course after the three main equity indexes fell by more than 1 percent on Monday, when the ratings agency Standard & Poor's revised its outlook on the nation's Triple AAA rating -- the highest level -- to negative from stable.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 65.16 points, or 0.53 percent, at 12,266.75. The S.& P. 500-stock index was up 7.48 points, or 0.57 percent, at 1,312.62 and the Nasdaq gained 9.59 points, or 0.35 percent, at 2,744.97. 
On Monday the three indexes posted their largest one-day drop in more than a month after the S.& P. announcement.
''The market has moved on from that,'' said Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial. ''But the debt ceiling issue is not going to be forgotten.''
Bond prices were steady on Tuesday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 3/32, to 102 5/32, and the yield slipped to 3.36 percent from 3.37 percent late Monday.
Anthony G. Valeri, a senior vice president and market strategist for LPL Financial, said the behavior of the bond market suggested that the market does not see the default risk changing for United States Treasuries.
That was the view put forward by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who tried in TV appearances to reassure investors that the Democrats and Republicans would reach a deal on the nation's deficit, a concern at the heart of the S.& P.'s reasoning for lowering its outlook.
He said on Fox Business Network there was ''no risk'' that the United States would lose its AAA credit rating, disagreeing with Standard & Poor's negative assessment, and said that investors were still confident in government bonds.
''He is out there defending,'' said Ms. Krosby, referring to Mr. Geithner's appearances.
But, she added: ''Ultimately the markets will be the official arbiter of U.S. credit.''
Added Mr. Valeri: ''I think he is trying to do potential damage control in Treasuries. Not that he needed to. The bond market saw right through the S.& P. move.''
''I think the market has moved on, and we have also got the Easter and Passover holidays this week,'' he said.
The bank reporting season was in full swing. Goldman Sachs reported first-quarter net income of $2.74 billion, down 22 percent from the period a year earlier, after taking a one-time charge to pay back the investor Warren E. Buffett.
The profit, $1.56 a share, beat analysts' expectations of 82 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters, but its shares fell $1.92, to $151.86.
Bank of America declined 0.64 percent to $12.34; Morgan Stanley was down 1.69 percent to $26.10 and JPMorgan Chase was up 1.57 percent to $44.65. Financials as a whole rose 0.36 percent.
A Commerce Department housing market report said home construction rose 7.2 percent in March to a seasonally adjusted 549,000 units a year. Permits rose 11.2 percent, it said, helping shares of materials companies rise nearly 2 percent.
Alcoa rose nearly 2 percent to $16.44 and United States Steel was up 4.46 percent to $52.74. Johnson & Johnson rose more than 3 percent to $62.69. In its first quarter results, the company raised its earnings forecast for 2011 to $4.90 to $5.00 a share.
''The market is focusing on going back to the earnings season and it is punishing companies that have not done well,'' said Ms. Krosby.
''But you had better news on the housing front and the market is rewarding the housing related stocks,'' said Ms. Krosby. ''If you look at the entire tone of the market, it is short on top line revenue growth, and the financials are a barometer of the U.S. economy. For their earnings not to come in as well, particularly when it comes to loan growth, is a thorn in the side of this recovery.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); DEBT CEILING (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); EASTER SEASON (60%); PASSOVER (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



470 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: He's Done Working for Obama. Now He May Challenge Him in '12.

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Three months before President Obamanominated Jon M. Huntsman Jr. as ambassador to China, Mr. Huntsman arrived here to introduce himself to three dozen influential Republicans and talk politics with them over dinner at the Palmetto Club.
Mr. Huntsman, then serving his second term as governor of Utah and prospecting for his political future, worried aloud that Republicans were growing out of touch with a generation of Americans. If the party wanted to win national elections again, he argued, Republicans needed to broaden their appeal to young voters, Hispanics and independents.
He will put that argument to the test if he joins the 2012 Republican presidential race.
After spending nearly two years as the top American diplomat in China, Mr. Huntsman returns to the United States next week. He has scheduled visits next month here in South Carolina and in New Hampshire, where the Tea Party and social conservatives hold significant sway and have changed the political landscape. 
On paper, given his affiliation with Mr. Obama, Mr. Huntsman would seem to be facing a tough time in a primary where anti-Obama sentiment is expected to run high. But in a crowded field, with many Republicans signaling dissatisfaction with the candidates thus far, his supporters hope he could get beyond short-term challenges with a long-term pitch of electability.
''The stage is set for an attractive new player who can inspire Republicans,'' said Richard Quinn, a Republican who attended the dinner with Mr. Huntsman here two years ago and intends to support him if he runs. ''By the time we get around to voting next year, the one thing that will pull Republicans together is beating Barack Obama.''
A candidacy by Mr. Huntsman would test just how frustrated voters are with the party's current lineup and would determine whether there is room in a Republican primary for a fiscal conservative and social moderate, who would present himself as a strong general-election choice.
Mr. Huntsman has been coy about his intentions. A group of Republican aides, nearly all of whom are alumni of Senator John McCain's presidential campaigns, have been working behind the scenes to promote a potential candidacy. They say they have not coordinated with him, which would be a violation of federal law because he is a government employee who cannot engage in elected politics.
In an interview last week in Beijing, Mr. Huntsman told a Salt Lake City television station: ''While in China, we serve our country. We don't do politics.''
Asked whether he planned to pursue the Republican presidential nomination, he said, ''I don't know the answer to that yet.''
Mr. Huntsman, 51, is a motorcycle-riding, keyboard-playing, Mandarin-speaking Mormon who worked in the administrations of Ronald Reagan, George Bush and George W. Bush. His family, which owns the Huntsman Corporation, a global chemical company, is one of the wealthiest in Utah, worth more than $1 billion, which has fueled speculation that he could invest his own money into a campaign.
Other Republican candidates, particularly Mitt Romney, are closely watching Mr. Huntsman. A simmering rivalry between those two men came into full view during the 2008 presidential race when Mr. Huntsman became a co-chairman of Mr. McCain's campaign, instead of backing Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor.
The strategy for Mr. Huntsman, if he decides to run, would most likely begin in New Hampshire. His supporters believe he should follow a path similar to that taken by Mr. McCain: ignore the Iowa caucuses, where social conservatives have a louder voice, and try to compete aggressively in South Carolina, where Mr. Romney has struggled to win over voters.
Mr. Huntsman would have several disadvantages, including low name recognition among Republicans. Party activists, in conversations at two Republican county conventions in South Carolina over the weekend, knew little about him. He also has no established donor base, and any campaign would start months behind those of rivals.
But some of the groundwork is being quietly done by operatives -- without Mr. Huntsman's consent, they say -- who have visited donors and asked influential Republicans to sit patiently until he makes his plans known.
''I'm just beating the drum and hoping that he runs this cycle and doesn't wait,'' said Fred Davis, a Republican advertising strategist who met with prospective donors last week in Florida. ''I'm trying to find someone who is different, who is going to stand out and register in someone's heart.''
Mr. Huntsman's resume does stand out, in part because of his strong foreign policy credentials. In addition to serving as the ambassador to China, he was ambassador to Singapore for the first President Bush and a deputy trade ambassador for the second.
He opposes abortion rights, and his record as a fiscal conservative is solid. But after winning a second term as governor in 2008, he praised the Obama administration's economic stimulus program, advocated civil unions for gay couples and supported the cap-and-trade system for carbon emissions, all of which drew favorable attention among moderates but criticism from some conservatives.
It is unclear how voters will view his relationship with Mr. Obama. If some wonder why Mr. Huntsman accepted a position in a Democratic administration, others may ask why he is turning against the man who sent him to China. His challenge was underscored late last week, when a letter from him to Mr. Obama was disclosed by the Daily Caller, a conservative Web site. ''You are a remarkable leader -- and it has been a great honor getting to know you,'' Mr. Huntsman wrote.
John Weaver, a Republican strategist who is urging Mr. Huntsman to run, said his experience in China only enhanced his credentials.
''If you're asked by the president of the United States to serve your country in a foreign policy or national security role and you don't do it,'' Mr. Weaver said, ''that's disqualifying.''
Mr. Huntsman, who recently bought a house in the upscale Kalorama neighborhood of Washington, is scheduled to return to the United States shortly before his resignation takes effect April 30. The next day, he can start conducting political discussions. A campaign operation, complete with a team of fund-raisers, researchers and political strategists, is waiting to offer him guidance.
Interviews with nearly a dozen friends and former colleagues in Utah disclosed that Mr. Huntsman is serious about testing a presidential bid over the next few months. They said they expected him to decide by summer.
''He clearly would like to run at some point,'' said former Senator Robert Bennett of Utah, who has known the Huntsman family for years but is supporting Mr. Romney. ''But he doesn't have a natural constituency, so forming a political action committee and spreading money around in the 2012 election could be a very smart thing for a politician who wants to run in 2016.''
For his part, Mr. Obama has repeatedly mentioned Mr. Huntsman's ties to him.
In a speech at the Gridiron Dinner last month in Washington, the president said he admired all of the potential Republican candidates, but added, ''I'm a little biased toward my dear, dear friend Jon Huntsman.''
''As his good friends in China might say, he is truly the yin to my yang,'' Mr. Obama said with a smile. ''And I'm going to make sure that every primary voter knows it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the American ambassador, on a motorcycle tour of Shanghai on April 7. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



471 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Is Lead Topic As Leaders Are Gathered

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
President Obama told a gathering of business, labor, religious and political leaders at the White House on Tuesday that he remains committed to an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws and wants to try again in the coming months to push Congress to pass a bill. 
With his re-election campaign launched this month and Latino communities growing increasingly frustrated with his immigration policies, Mr. Obama summoned more than 60 high-profile supporters of the stalled overhaul legislation to a strategy session, looking for ways to revive it. Among those attending were Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, an independent; Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio, a Democrat; and former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican.
Two big-city police chiefs, Raymond W. Kelly of New York and Charles Ramsey of Philadelphia, were there, as was Sheryl Sandberg, a top executive at Facebook, and Leith Anderson, president of the National Association of Evangelicals, the largest group of evangelical Christians.
Prospects for the proposed policy, which would grant legal status to millions of illegal immigrants and revamp the immigration system, seem bleak in this Congress, with staunch Republican opponents of the bill controlling pivotal committee positions in the House of Representatives. Recently Latino leaders have stepped up their criticism of Mr. Obama, as deportations have reached record numbers under his administration and he has offered no relief from the crackdown on immigrant communities.
Latino voters helped several Democrats, including Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, survive the Republican shift in the midterm elections last fall, and they are expected to be a major force in the presidential vote next year.
In the closed meeting, Mr. Obama argued that the overhaul would bring immigrant entrepreneurs to the United States and was a crucial piece of the economic recovery, according to several people who attended. He sought views on whether to try to pass smaller pieces of the massive overhaul, such as a bill that would give legal status to illegal immigrant students, or one that would increase visas for highly skilled foreign workers.
The president asked for help to ''change the debate'' to attract Republicans to support the bill. He said he could not pass the overhaul ''if I am leading the debate alone,'' according to a White House statement.
Mr. Bloomberg suggested recasting the acrimonious discussion over the proposed policy to stress that it would not take jobs from Americans but would help the economy, said John Feinblatt, the chief policy adviser to the mayor, who was in the room.
''We need an immigration policy that attracts the best, brightest and hardest working to our shores to help create jobs and spur growth,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. He has started a national campaign in support of the immigration bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); DEPORTATION (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF EVANGELICALS (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (59%); BRADBURY H ANDERSON (59%); HARRY REID (58%); SHERYL SANDBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



472 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deal With Panama Clears Hurdle Over Taxes

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House announced on Tuesday that Panama had satisfied a final condition for a free-trade pact with the United States, smoothing the way for President Obama to seek Congressional approval for three trade agreements inherited from the Bush administration and now central to his own job-creation agenda.
''We view this agreement as creating a more level playing field for U.S. exporters and also for U.S. investors,'' Miriam Sapiro, the deputy United States trade representative, said in a conference call with reporters. 
Michael Froman, Mr. Obama's deputy national security adviser for international economics, said the White House had begun discussions with Congressional leaders to schedule action soon on the agreement with Panama and those with Colombia and South Korea. While Republicans were receptive and business groups applauded the development, Mr. Obama faces opposition from his Democratic Party and its union allies.
The last hurdle for the Panama deal was cleared on Monday when the two countries agreed to exchange tax information; the United States has complained in the past that Panama was a haven for income-tax evasion.
The end to the Panama negotiations followed the administration's tentative agreement earlier this month with Colombia, after that country made concessions on labor rights and protections, and its deal late last year with South Korea after it made concessions on trade in beef and autos.
Republican leaders had said the Obama administration needed to propose legislation adopting all three trade agreements before they would consider any of them. Senate Republicans are also blocking confirmation of nominees for commerce secretary or trade-related posts until then.
Representative Dave Camp, a Republican of Michigan who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which handles trade legislation, said in a statement that the Obama administration should send Congress the paperwork for legislation on the trade agreements in time for action by July 1.
''U.S. job creators and workers are every day put at a disadvantage to foreign competitors from countries that have already concluded trade agreements without us,'' Mr. Camp said. ''The more we delay, the more we lose.''
As on most trade legislation, the Republicans enjoy maximum leverage because Mr. Obama will not be able to rely on Democrats' support in Congress. This week the head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Richard Trumka, warned that the union would include the three trade votes on its influential ''scorecard'' of members of Congress, subtracting points for free-trade votes.
Mr. Obama, as a candidate for president, opposed all three Bush-era trade accords and Congress, then controlled by Democrats, refused to approve them. Since then, however, his administration has negotiated side agreements with all three countries to satisfy Mr. Obama's criticisms, especially on labor rights. He also has made the trade pacts a priority as he seeks to improve relations with business and to reach his goal of doubling exports by 2014 to create jobs in export industries like agriculture, manufacturing and financial services.
But the Colombia deal holds a final wrinkle for pushing ahead on the three trade agreements, administration officials acknowledged. Colombia agreed to an ''action plan'' for protecting labor unionists from the violence and abuse many have suffered. The action plan sets a timetable for compliance, though Mr. Froman said the administration would not insist that Colombia reach every goal before it sends legislation to Congress.
According to the White House, the deal with Panama, whose economy is one of the fastest growing in Latin America, will eliminate many tariffs on American agricultural, consumer and industrial goods at a time when trade rivals like Canada and the European Union nations are making inroads in the region.
It also would open opportunities for heavy equipment manufacturers on $15 billion in Panamanian infrastructure projects, including an expansion of the Panama Canal. A representative of Caterpillar joined the White House call with reporters, taking the chance to thank the administration officials and tell them the news was ''playing well in Peoria'' -- where Caterpillar is based.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX FRAUD (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



473 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS EVENTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Growing a Slice of City Life in Suburbia

BYLINE: By TIM McKEOUGH

 BODY:
New Yorkers are accustomed to having access to a wide range of personal services like food delivery and dog walking. On Saturday, the architecture firm Diller Scofidio & Renfro and the Dutch design group Droog are holding an event to explore creative ways of bringing more of such services to the suburbs, through home-based businesses. 
''We want to assist people in finding their inner service provider,'' said Charles Renfro, a partner at Diller Scofidio & Renfro, ''as a way to provide an alternative economy'' in a difficult economic climate.
The project, called Open House, has two components. The first, a symposium, will be held at Columbia University's Studio-X, at 180 Varick Street, Suite 1610, beginning at 10 a.m. The second, a series of service-related installations by artists, designers and architects, will take place at several houses in Levittown, N.Y., from 2 to 6 p.m. Both events are free and open to the public; round-trip transportation will be available between Studio-X and Levittown for $20. Information: openhouse2011.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); DOGS (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (56%)

COMPANY: DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



474 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; A BUOYANT MILAN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1873 words

HEADLINE: For Young Hopefuls, Milan Offers a Place to Break In

BYLINE: By JULIE LASKY

 BODY:
MILAN
PHILIPPE STARCK, in spattered coveralls, holds a paint roller. Marcel Wanders brandishes one, too. Patricia Urquiola rests on an overturned bucket.
When the Italian lighting company Flos introduced its new collection at the International Furniture Fair in Milan, which ended on Sunday, it was with a photo montage of the products' creators: 11 eminent designers posing as house painters.
The life-size portraits adorning Flos's booth can be seen as an allegory of an industry that by many accounts is pulling itself from the wreckage of a global recession and cleaning up the mess.
''Something is moving,'' said Giorgio Busnelli, chairman of B&B Italia, the luxury furniture maker, predicting that next year the company will see worldwide sales it hasn't achieved since 2007. 
The images captured the buoyant spirit of the fair, which celebrated its 50th anniversary this year. Aisles were crammed with 320,000 visitors over the six-day event.
Recalling the crush of bodies in his 10,000-square-foot booth, Flos's president, Piero Gandini, said: ''I was even a little bit scared. It was like the Piazza San Marco in Venice. We have to put in pigeons next year.''
Allegorical or not, the Flos portraits are fantasies. One imagines that designers like Mr. Starck, Mr. Wanders and Ms. Urquiola wouldn't be caught dead in coveralls. And, as far as one could tell from the fingers gripping champagne flutes at the fair's many parties, their nails are clean. These men and women are royalty who can tolerate being taken down a peg because the furniture fair is their court.
For less prominent designers, Milan is something else: a gateway to an international reputation, the place where a prototype might be snapped up for production, or a chat at Bar Basso (the watering hole that is to ambitious designers what Les Deux Magots was to expatriate writers in Paris) might lead to a job in a renowned studio. Mixing with the throngs of manufacturers, distributors and buyers are legions of young designers who aspire to global recognition and the important money that goes with it.
How important? Consider that a single aluminum chair, the Hudson, which Mr. Starck designed 10 years ago for the American manufacturer Emeco, earns him $200,000 a year in royalties, according to the company's president, Gregg Buchbinder. Now consider that Mr. Starck presented new products for at least a half-dozen manufacturers this year, and it becomes clear why he can afford to live in four countries. Rather than lavish attention on celebrities, who receive plenty from a Milan fair press corps of 5,300 members, this reporter followed three emerging American designers, each with a different strategy for getting noticed.
The mission led to far-flung corners of the event. Milan at fair time has its own geography -- a city within the city that springs up every April like Brigadoon. Neighborhoods are remapped as temporary ''design districts'' with reputations for being luxurious or brutalist, safe or rebellious, depending on the qualities of the displayed objects (and their admirers). The Brooklyn designer Paul Loebach, for instance, was tracked down in Lambrate, a former industrial neighborhood far from Milan's center. Last year, a Dutch group organized the area as the Ventura Lambrate design district, attracting youthful exhibitors with a reputation for unchecked creativity. This year, it was the must-see destination, despite the necessity of scuttling through a tunnel to get there.
Mr. Loebach, 36, was showing at the Carwan Gallery of Beirut, the ''first pop-up gallery promoting limited-edition design in the Middle East,'' according to its brochure. Carwan had popped up in a long, low building with dusty glass doors and a brick floor. Dressed in jeans and a button-down shirt with a scarf -- the Milanese weather had been as temperamental as a 2-year-old -- Mr. Loebach discussed the centerpiece of his collection: a table with spiral legs inspired by the open twists of 17th-century English furniture. Except that his spirals were sandwiched layers of wood veneer and carbon fiber.
Best known for designs executed by the New York furniture producers Areaware and Matter (his work is also sold by the lighting company Roll & Hill, which was making its European debut across town), Mr. Loebach first exhibited in Milan in 2008 at the Salone Satellite, a portion of the fair dedicated to young designers. Many dream of a Lana Turner moment at the Satellite. Mr. Loebach actually had one, when the Italian manufacturer Luigi Billiani, taking a quick break from his own booth one morning, passed by and offered to produce Mr. Loebach's chair prototype. They are now in discussions about their third project together.
Meanwhile, Mr. Loebach hoped to sell his table. There was only one, and it involved tricky engineering, so it was priced at $22,000. But he wanted to license the design and work on more democratic applications.
While Mr. Loebach was basking in the sunlight pouring through the multipaned factory windows and the prospect of earning the price of a small BMW, Brooke Woosley, a 32-year-old designer from Los Angeles, was tethered to her booth at the Salone Satellite, in the punishingly long fairgrounds building in the Milanese suburb Rho. She was showing Chloros, a faceted display case coated with pastel shades of automotive paint and lighted inside with a fluorescent tube. Also on view was Bundle, a dangling lamp she had assembled from blown glass, brass and wire.
Originally intended to be a planter, Chloros was named for chloroplasts, the organelles responsible for photosynthesis. Ms. Woosley, however, is not a science geek, and isn't averse to pointing out that the shelf would look great in a bar. Bundle was inspired by sloppily tied newspapers; the ''twine'' is a cloth-covered wire Ms. Woosley says she fell in love with. (Obviously, industrial design is exactly where she belongs.)
By noon on the fair's opening day, Ms. Woosley had already begun to regret her brown leather boots with their cruel wooden soles. In 2007, she had helped design the booth at the Satellite occupied by her classmates at Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif. This was her second trip to the fair. Had she forgotten that sensible shoes, even in this capital of style, aren't a fashion crime, but preventative therapy? And speaking of discomfort, what was she planning to do if someone ordered, say, 100 Chloros?
''Since these are made of fiberglass, I have a mold,'' Ms. Woosley said. ''It would take a week for the fiberglass fabricators to make 100. The lead time would probably be a month ... or a month and a half ...or two ....''
Back in a leafy wisteria-scented patch of the city, Jonathan Olivares, 29, was busy with products he had designed for the Italian company Danese. Its offices occupy an early-20th-century mansion where beautiful young men glide around carrying armfuls of fresh flowers or pushing cookie plates on visitors.
Last week, Mr. Olivares unveiled his Hollis side table there, a piece introduced in 2010 as a prototype that was now being readied for the market.
Hollis is designed to support a laptop computer and to move fluidly with the user. Envisioning that person sitting at home on a sofa, Mr. Olivares researched the form by typing the words ''my living room'' and ''my laptop'' into Flickr and studying the images that popped up. The base, which users are expected to step on, is covered in a rubbery material made of ground-up sneakers.
Mr. Olivares's latest design for Danese is a desk called Terri, with neat proportions for tight spaces and a polyurethane top that eliminates the need for a mouse pad, ''which is always a nasty thing on a desk,'' he said, ''because it collects dust.''
With a week's growth of beard and a wrinkled pink shirt, Mr. Olivares was looking, if not dusty, then at least a little rumpled himself. But then, he appears to be casual in many things. He talked his way into Pratt's industrial design program without a portfolio -- just a sketchbook with drawings of the furniture he had seen on one of his annual visits to the Milan fair, which he has attended regularly since he was 20. Upon leaving Pratt, he worked for the designer Stephen Burks in New York and for Konstantin Grcic in Munich. When he returned to the States, he opened a studio in the garage of his mother's house in Boston and supported himself by writing for the Italian magazine Domus.
Like a Dickens hero, Mr. Olivares appears to secure his life's direction with every encounter. Unlike a Dickens hero, no tragedy seems to be involved. His Domus connections led to work for Danese, and a two-year assignment from Knoll to study the history of workplace seating. Last week, his book ''A Taxonomy of Office Chairs'' was published by Phaidon. He is now designing products for Knoll.
Mr. Olivares's apparently easy ascent belies the stresses and anxieties of being an American designer (and therefore in the minority) at the Milan fair. Of the 146 Salone Satellite booths this year, only nine, Ms. Woosley's among them, were tended by designers from the United States. And while she appreciated the honor of being offered a spot at the fair, Ms. Woosley initially balked at the expense. Only after a former teacher urged her to ''beg, borrow or steal'' for the privilege of showing her work in Milan did she secure a loan from her mother to cover the $4,000 space-rental fee, plus numerous incidentals. ''It's a huge investment and really scary,'' she said.
Mr. Loebach believes that Milan may intimidate American designers; just the idea of shipping a heavy object overseas can make them nervous. Business is often conducted in Italian. And unlike many international exhibitors who are subsidized by their governments (the Dutch and Thai are particularly generous), Americans lacking client support must pay their own way.
Still, however small the American contingent, it's growing.
According to Mr. Burks, who is a model for many aspirants to international design careers, there are ''a lot more American designers here now than there were 10 years ago,'' when he counted only three: himself, Jeffrey Bernett and the late Lloyd Schwan. This year, Established & Sons presented a barstool designed by Leon Ransmeier, a New Yorker; Moroso showed a sofa by Marc Thorpe, a Californian; and FontanaArte presented a lamp by Chris Hardy, a recent design school graduate from Atlanta.
As their numbers increase, globetrotting Americans may help erase the perception that design excellence in the United States is confined to midcentury masters and technology companies. Asked why he believed Americans designers don't have better reputations, the storied Italian designer Alessandro Mendini, 79, countered with the names Eames, Nelson and Saarinen.
What about today?
''Apple is American, isn't it?'' Mr. Mendini asked.
As for Ms. Woosley, she was delighted by her week at the Satellite. Representatives of three design retailers (two of them European) took her business card and asked her to stay in touch. She was reluctant to disclose names out of fear of disturbing the delicate roots of new relationships, saying only that the companies are ''super well known.''
The experience, she concluded, was ''definitely worth it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COLORFUL: Clockwise from above: Fernando and Humberto Campana's Grinza chair for Edra
the Plastic Ceramic Vase by Yii, a group of designers working with Taiwanese artisans
the Story Vase from the Swedish design group Front and the Siyazama Project, a South African collective that practices traditional Zulu bead craft
the Armchair 4801, a 1964 design by Joe Colombo being reissued in plastic by Kartell
Klara, Patricia Urquiola's tufted sofa for Moroso
Marc Newson's Bunky Beds
the Bau Lamp from the Danish company Normann Copenhagen.(D1)
PREPARATION: Paul Loebach, a 36-year-old designer from Brooklyn, sets up his display at the Milan furniture fair. Top left, Brooke Woosley, 32, works on Bundle, a lamp made of blown glass, brass and wire
bottom left, Jonathan Olivares, 29, with a desk he calls Terri. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA WYNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4)
BRIGHT: From left: Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec's Aim Lamps for Flos
Impossible Wood, an injection-molded wood-and-polypropylene chair by Nipa Doshi and Jonathan Levien for Moroso
the Maki Lamp, by the Japanese design studio Nendo for Foscarini.
REIMAGINED: Clockwise from above: the 1948 Antelope Rocker, reissued by Race Furniture
Alessi's Vienna LED decorative bulb
the 1978 Proust chair by Alessandro Mendini, reissued in plastic by Magis
the Lightwood Chair by Naoto Fukasawa and Jasper Morrison
Barber Osgerby's Tip-Ton Chair for Vitra.
INSPIRED: The Pivot Desk, above, by Israeli-born designer Shay Alkalay, was originally developed in 2008, as a cabinet
 since then, the technology of the hinged drawers has been refined. Left, the bamboo Loop Chair, by Idee Liu with Kao-ming Chen for Yii, was inspired by ancient Chinese scrolls. (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); FURNITURE MFG (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); METAL FURNITURE MFG (74%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); WRITERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (59%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%); DENMARK (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



475 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: A Village With the Numbers, Not the Image, of the Poorest Place

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The poorest place in the United States is not a dusty Texas border town, a hollow in Appalachia, a remote Indian reservation or a blighted urban neighborhood. It has no slums or homeless people. No one who lives there is shabbily dressed or has to go hungry. Crime is virtually nonexistent.
And, yet, officially, at least, none of the nation's 3,700 villages, towns or cities with more than 10,000 people has a higher proportion of its population living in poverty than Kiryas Joel, N.Y., a community of mostly garden apartments and town houses 50 miles northwest of New York City in suburban Orange County.
About 70 percent of the village's 21,000 residents live in households whose income falls below the federal poverty threshold, according to the Census Bureau. Median family income ($17,929) and per capita income ($4,494) rank lower than any other comparable place in the country. Nearly half of the village's households reported less than $15,000 in annual income. 
About half of the residents receive food stamps, and one-third receive Medicaid benefits and rely on federal vouchers to help pay their housing costs.
Kiryas Joel's unlikely ranking results largely from religious and cultural factors. Ultra-Orthodox Satmar Hasidic Jews predominate in the village; many of them moved there from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, beginning in the 1970s to accommodate a population that was growing geometrically.
Women marry young, remain in the village to raise their families and, according to religious strictures, do not use birth control. As a result, the median age (under 12) is the lowest in the country and the household size (nearly six) is the highest. Mothers rarely work outside the home while their children are young.
Most residents, raised as Yiddish speakers, do not speak much English. And most men devote themselves to Torah and Talmud studies rather than academic training -- only 39 percent of the residents are high school graduates, and less than 5 percent have a bachelor's degree. Several hundred adults study full time at religious institutions.
The concentration of poverty in Kiryas Joel, (pronounced KIR-yas Jo-EL) is not a deliberate strategy by the leaders of the Satmar sect, said Joel Oberlander, 30, a title examiner who lives in Williamsburg. ''It puts a great strain on their resources,'' he said. ''They would love to see the better earners of the community relocate as well to balance the situation, but why would they?''
Still, the Census Bureau's latest poverty estimates, based on the 2005-9 American Community Survey released last year, do not take into account the community's tradition of philanthropy and no-interest loans. Moreover, some families may be eligible for public benefits because they earn low salaries from the religious congregations and other nonprofit groups that run businesses and religious schools. Nearly half of the village's residents with jobs work for the public or parochial schools.
''If people want to work in a religious setting and make less than they would earn at B & H, that's a choice people make,'' said Gedalye Szegedin, the village administrator, referring to the giant photo and video retail store in Manhattan whose owner and many of whose employees are members of the Satmar sect.
''I don't want to be judgmental,'' Mr. Szegedin added. ''I wouldn't call it a poor community. I would say some are deprived. I would call it a community with a lot of income-related challenges.''
Because the community typically votes as a bloc, it wields disproportionate political influence, which enables it to meet those challenges creatively. A luxurious 60-bed postnatal maternal care center was built with $10 million in state and federal grants. Mothers can recuperate there for two weeks away from their large families. Rates, which begin at $120 a day, are not covered by Medicaid, although, Mr. Szegedin said, poorer women are typically subsidized by wealthier ones.
One lawmaker, Assemblywoman Nancy Calhoun, a Republican who represents an adjacent district in Orange County, has demanded an investigation by state officials into why Kiryas Joel received grants for the center. ''They may be truly poor on paper,'' Ms. Calhoun said. ''They are not truly poor in reality.''
The village does aggressively pursue economic opportunities. A kosher poultry slaughterhouse, which processes 40,000 chickens a day, is community owned and considered a nonprofit organization. A bakery that produces 800 pounds of matzo daily is owned by one of the village's synagogues.
Most children attend religious schools, but transportation and textbooks are publicly financed. Several hundred handicapped students are educated by the village's own public school district, which, because virtually all the students are poor and disabled, is eligible for sizable state and federal government grants.
Statistically, no place comes close to Kiryas Joel. In Athens, Ohio, which ranks second in poverty, 56 percent of the residents are classified as poor.
Still, poverty is largely invisible in the village. Parking lots are full, but strollers and tricycles seem to outnumber cars. A jeweler shares a storefront with a check-cashing office. To avoid stigmatizing poorer young couples or instilling guilt in parents, the chief rabbi recently decreed that diamond rings were not acceptable as engagement gifts and that one-man bands would suffice at weddings. Many residents who were approached by a reporter said they did not want to talk about their finances.
''I cannot say as a group that they are cheating the system,'' said William B. Helmreich, a sociology professor who specializes in Judaic studies at City College of the City University of New York, ''but I do think that they have, no pun intended, unorthodox methods of getting financial support.''
All of which prompts a fundamental question: Are as many as 7 in 10 Kiryas Joel residents really poor?
''It is, in a sense, a statistical anomaly,'' Professor Helmreich said. ''They are clearly not wealthy, and they do have a lot of children. They spend whatever discretionary income they have on clothing, food and baby carriages. They don't belong to country clubs or go to movies or go on trips to Aruba.
''They're not scrounging around, though. They're not presenting a picture of poverty as if you would go to a Mexican neighborhood in Corona. They do have organizations that lend money interest-free. They're also supported by members of the community who are wealthier -- it's not declarable income if somebody buys them a baby carriage.''
David Jolly, the social services commissioner for Orange County, also said that while the number of people receiving benefits seemed disproportionately high, the number of caseloads -- a family considered as a unit -- was much less aberrant. A family of eight who reports as much as $48,156 in income is still eligible for food stamps, although the threshold for cash assistance ($37,010), which relatively few village residents receive, is lower.
Joel Steinberg, who lives in the village with his family and works as a comptroller for a real estate firm, said that before Passover, ''the No. 1 project in the community was raising funds for food.''
Mr. Steinberg recalled encountering a neighbor soliciting help door-to-door last fall: ''He had received two shut-off notices from his utility company, he's behind with tuition and that his food stamps gets used up before the end of the month. He's paying too much for transportation to his job, and he had had an unexpected expense that forced him into debt.''
William E. Rapfogel, chief executive of the Metropolitan Jewish Council on Poverty, said, ''Sure, there are probably people taking advantage and people in the underground economy getting benefits they're not entitled to, but there are also a lot of poor people.''
Mr. Szegedin, the village administrator, said critics tended to forget that state taxpayers were generally spared because thousands of village children are enrolled in religious schools. Nearby, the Monroe-Woodbury school district, with roughly the same school-age population, spends about $150 million annually, about one-third of which comes from the state. (Albany provides about $5 million of Kiryas Joel's $16 million public school budget.)
''You also have no drug-treatment programs, no juvenile delinquency program, we're not clogging the court system with criminal cases, you're not running programs for AIDS or teen pregnancy,'' he said. ''I haven't run the numbers, but I think it's a wash.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kiryas Joel, N.Y., a predominantly ultra-Orthodox Jewish community, tops a national poverty list. The median age is under 12.(A1)
The nursery at the maternal care center in Kiryas Joel. The center was built with $10 million in federal and state grants. A slide show is at nytimes.com/nyregion.
Workers at a synagogue-owned matzo bakery, one of the economic opportunities the Orange County village has developed.
 New housing on the rise in Kiryas Joel. Public assistance is common: about half of the residents receive food stamps, and one-third receive Medicaid benefits and federal housing vouchers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) CHARTS: A Demographic Curiosity: The village of Kiryas Joel, N.Y., is home to a large Orthodox Jewish population, which skews the village's demographic profile toward larger families and lower incomes, even though real-estate values are similar to those in neighboring communities. Here, a comparison with Woodbury, the town next door. (Source: Census Bureau) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOMELESSNESS (77%); POVERTY RATES (76%); CENSUS (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MEDICAID (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); CHILDREN (69%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



476 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Quake Takes Toll on Japan Exports in March

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Japan on Wednesday reported a decline in exports for March, providing new details of the impact the natural and nuclear disasters have had on its economy, particularly among manufacturers.
Exports, which had risen steadily for more than a year before the quake struck, fell 2.2 percent in March from the level of a year earlier, to 5.9 trillion yen, or $71 billion. The decline was more pronounced than some analysts had expected and represented a sharp reversal from the robust rise of 9 percent recorded in February.
''It will take time for exports to recover to pre-earthquake levels, given that supply chain disruptions and electricity shortages are hampering efforts to restore production,'' Hiromichi Shirakawa, an economist at Credit Suisse in Tokyo, wrote in a research note Wednesday. 
Mr. Shirakawa noted that the decline in exports in March had not been as bad as he had initially expected, in part because companies probably exported some goods in March that been produced before the disaster. ''A sharp decline in production after the earthquake may have a larger impact on exports in April and May,'' he said.
Imports rose 11.9 percent, to 5.7 trillion yen. That still left Japan with a trade surplus of 196.5 billion yen ($2.4 billion), although it declined by 78.9 percent.
The devastating earthquake and tsunami of March 11, and the power shortages that followed, struck Japan just as its economy, the largest after those of the United States and China, was beginning to regain some momentum after the deep slump that followed the global financial crisis in 2008.
Analysts and officials are optimistic that the Japanese economy will start to rebound by the second half of the year, if not sooner, as reconstruction spending kicks in and manufacturing and electricity supplies return to normal.
In the short term, however, the pain and uncertainty remain intense, particularly in the automobile and electronics industries.
Shipments of motor vehicles, which account for about 10 percent of total Japanese exports, slumped 22.1 percent in March compared with a year ago, as automakers like Toyota and Honda cut production and shut down plants in the weeks after the quake struck.
Many of these plants have restarted production in the last week or two, but in many cases, operations remain below levels reached before the earthquake and are dependent on whether, and how rapidly, the flow of components and spare parts returns to normal in the coming weeks and months.
Toyota, one of the companies hardest hit by the disruption, has resumed production at its plants in Japan, which build nearly half the vehicles the company sells worldwide. However, the factories are running at only 50 percent capacity, and Toyota operations in other parts of the world have also been scaled down significantly as inventories of parts and components dwindle.
On Wednesday, Toyota said production in China would be reduced to 30 to 50 percent of normal until June 3.
Economists stress, however, that the problems felt by the car sector do not extend to the Japanese economy as a whole. Activity in many other sectors was less directly affected by the March 11 events and have already returned to normal, said Takuji Okubo, chief Japan economist at Societe Generale in Tokyo.
In addition, fears that power constraints may intensify once electricity demand picks up over the summer may be overstated, he said.
''Japanese manufacturers can probably manage the impact by shifting some activity to nighttime and weekends,'' he said. ''Consumption and manufacturing will probably decline, yes, but the effect is probably in the magnitude of 2 to 3 percent, rather than 5 to 6 percent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); TSUNAMIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); SHIPMENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); ELECTRONICS (67%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (97%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



477 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Oil Spill, the Tragedy of an Ailing Gulf

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- The anniversary has passed, the cleanup goes on, and still southern Louisiana sinks steadily into the sea.
Even in the worst days of the BP spill, coastal advocates were looking past the immediate emergency to what the president's oil spill commission called ''the central question from the recovery of the spill -- can or should such a major pollution event steer political energy, human resources and funding into solutions for a continuing systemic tragedy?''
That tragedy is the ill and declining health of the Gulf of Mexico, including the enormous dead zone off the mouth of the Mississippi and the alarmingly rapid disappearance of Louisiana's coastal wetlands, roughly 2,000 square miles smaller than they were 80 years ago. Few here would take issue with the commission's question, but the answer to it is far from resolved. 
Eclipsed by the spill's uncertain environmental impact is the other fallout: the vast sums in penalties and fines BP will have to pay to the federal government. In addition to criminal fines and restitution, BP is facing civil liabilities that fall roughly into two categories: Clean Water Act penalties and claims from the Natural Resource Damage Assessment process, whereby state and federal agencies tally the damage caused by the spill and put a price tag on it. This could add up to billions, perhaps tens of billions, of dollars.
BP is not the only company involved with the Deepwater Horizon accident that could be on the hook for these damages. In a sign of the bitter legal fight brewing among defendants, BP on Wednesday sued the maker of the blowout preventer and the owner of the oil rig, arguing that their negligence led to the spill.
But for people along the gulf, the issue of who pays the damages is less important than will they get paid.
Officials and coastal advocates all along the coast agree that the money could be an enormous boon for the gulf, as it would be impossible to obtain money like that through the normal political channels. But that is the only agreement.
Negotiations are under way among the area's Congressional delegation on a bill that would follow the presidential commission's recommendation in allocating four-fifths of BP's Clean Water Act penalties -- which could range from $5.4 billion to $21 billion -- on the Gulf Coast. Without separate legislation, the money would go into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to help pay to clean up future spills; once that fund reaches $2.7 billion, the rest would go into the Treasury.
But while such bills have been proposed in the House and Senate, gulfwide support of any one bill remains elusive. Disagreement remains among gulf state legislators over basics like how the money would be split and what it could be spent on. Among the concerns are how much leeway states would have to fund projects not related to ecosystem restoration -- Alabama officials, for example, have broadcast a desire to build a convention center -- and whether the money would be shared equally among the states or allocated based on the spill's environmental impact, in which case Louisiana would get a much larger piece.
A deal among the gulf state delegation, of course, does not ensure the bill's passage through Congress, particularly given the pall of austerity that has descended on Washington. Donald Boesch, a marine science professor at the University of Maryland who was on the presidential oil spill commission, said the political concessions necessary to a gulfwide agreement, like the flexibility to spend the money on economic projects, could deter lawmakers from other states, who would be hesitant to allow money to go to projects that are not directly tied to spill recovery.
Some lawmakers, Professor Boesch said, have also been given pause by the relentless criticism from Louisiana's political leaders of the Obama administration's post-spill regulations. Arguing that the new rules have jeopardized the state's drilling-dependent economy, Louisiana lawmakers have recently championed bills in the House of Representatives that would speed up and possibly bypass federal reviews of offshore drilling leases.
''To many it seems what they're asking for is to get back to the way they were operating before, without recognizing that things have changed,'' Professor Boesch said in an interview. ''You're not willing to take steps to protect the environment, so why are you to be believed that you can take steps to restore the environment?''
If the political route fails, there is Plan B: the federal authorities could direct some money toward restoration as part of an eventual settlement.
''If no new legislation is passed,'' David M. Uhlmann, an expert in environmental law at the University of Michigan, wrote in an e-mail message, ''the Justice Department is likely to negotiate for a large natural resource damage claim, perhaps even at the expense of civil penalties, and may try to obtain additional funds for restoration efforts as part of any criminal plea agreement or civil consent decree.''
This could please environmentalists, as natural resource damage claims are required by law to be spent on restoration, and it could also make BP happier, as the payment of such claims have tax advantages and simply sound better than penalties.
But, Professor Uhlmann added, ''far more would go to restoration if Congress takes action.''
Like all else in this spill, the natural resources damage assessment, while scientifically driven, is not untouched by politics. A plan of action requires some agreement among the various players, which has thus far been in short supply.
And if the money is worked out, said Oliver Houck, a professor at Tulane Law School who specializes in environmental law, there is still no consensus among scientists and officials on how best to fix the gulf's most pressing problems.
''Even if all the other dominoes fall right, and none of them are falling right, you're left with what to do with that big money,'' he said. Speaking of Louisiana's wetlands loss, he pointed out that the damage was more extensive and the solutions more limited than many acknowledge.
''We may be better off using this money to assist people to relocate people and move out,'' Professor Houck said, ''and let natural healing take place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The view from Bay Jimmy, La. Along with cleaning up the oil spill, the area faces another problem: disappearing wetlands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO/REUTERS)
A display in Grand Isle, La., identifies aspects of local life affected by the oil spill and offers a statement about the response. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Community leaders and environmental groups gathered in New Orleans on Wednesday, the first anniversary of the spill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WETLANDS (77%); BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); NEGLIGENCE (71%); WATER QUALITY (70%); CRIMINAL FINES (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



478 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: National Latino Museum Plan Faces Fight for a Place on the Mall

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Seven years after opening its National Museum of the American Indian, and four years before the scheduled unveiling of its museum of African-American history, the Smithsonian Institution is being urged to create another ethnic museum on the National Mall, this one to recognize the history and contributions of Latino Americans.
A federal commission has spent two years asking Latinos what they would want in such a museum, and next month the commission will report its findings to Congress, which would have to approve a new museum.
Though the creation of such an institution has support from members of Congress, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and celebrities like Eva Longoria, building it faces significant obstacles, including budget pressures and a feeling among some in Washington that the Smithsonian should stop spinning off new specialty museums and concentrate on improving the ones it already has. 
''I don't want a situation,'' said Representative Jim Moran, a Democrat from Virginia, ''where whites go to the original museum, African-Americans go to the African-American museum, Indians go to the Indian museum, Hispanics go to the Latino American museum. That's not America.''
In Washington, where politics infects all matters, there is wide acknowledgment that the 50 million Latinos who live in this country have become an increasingly important constituency. But even supporters of the museum acknowledge it faces a battle. ''The atmosphere is not friendly at all,'' said Estuardo V. Rodriguez Jr., a lobbyist with the Raben Group who has worked pro bono on the museum proposal, citing the economic pressures and what he described as anti-immigrant sentiment.
The idea for a Smithsonian Latino museum was born in the mid-1990s when a task force said the Smithsonian had largely ignored Latinos in its exhibitions and should create at least one museum to correct that imbalance.
The panel's report, entitled ''Willful Neglect,'' found, for example, that only 2 of the 470 people featured in the ''notable Americans'' section of the National Portrait Gallery were Latino.
Since then the Smithsonian has set aside money for Latino exhibitions and created an internal office to promote them. It agreed that a Latino heritage museum in San Antonio, which opened in 2007, be designated as an affiliate. Called the Museo Alameda, the institution is allowed to borrow materials from the Smithsonian, but is not financed by it.
There are dozens of other museums across the country that focus on the heritage or culture of Latinos, whose population in the United States grew by 43 percent over the last decade, according to 2010 Census figures. But supporters of the national museum say it is imperative that there be a similar presence in the nation's capital.
While the commission is not expected to make specific proposals about content, the museum would probably try to cover a wide swath of history, from the role of the Spanish conquistadors to the work of Latinos in the labor and civil-rights movements. It would include culture, from popular music to visual arts, and would try to feature people and traditions from all Hispanic countries.
Lisa Navarrete, a spokeswoman for the National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy organization, said it was unfortunate that Latino children who now travel to the Mall cannot see ''their community and history and legacy reflected.''
She said that a museum that accomplishes that is particularly crucial now because discussions of immigration issues have created a ''toxic'' environment for Latinos. ''It's even more important to show other Americans that our roots go back centuries on this continent,'' she said.
Though legislation to authorize a Latino museum commission, known formally as the National Museum of the American Latino Commission, was first introduced in 2003 by Representative Xavier Becerra, a Democrat of California, it did not pass until 2008, as part of an omnibus budget bill.
The economy and the balance of power in Congress have changed much since that vote, with Republicans now holding a 49-vote majority in the House of Representatives.
Federal money for the museum would not appear to be an option, members of Congress say, as it was for the African-American and Indian museums. The National Museum of African American History and Culture has a $500 million price tag, half of which is being paid by the federal government. The government paid for two-thirds of the Indian museum.
Commission leaders chose in recent days not to speak about their report before they brief Congress, in the first week of May. But it is anticipated that the panel will suggest that should a museum be authorized by the government, most of the financing could be raised privately.
Smithsonian officials have said they are open to the idea of including a Latino museum in their network, though some concede that it would be difficult to raise money for such an institution from the private sector while they are still committed to raising $250 million to finish the African-American museum.
Supporters of a national women's history museum are also currently seeking Congressional approval to locate a new institution on federal land across the street from the Mall.
Opposition to the Latino museum at this point is muted, and with the commission not yet having presented its report, few in Congress beyond the group of ardent supporters have focused on the issue.
Representative Jack Kingston, a Republican of Georgia, said in an interview that he supported a Latino museum as long as it was not financed with federal money, and as long as he was assured that the museum would not become ''an interest group's platform to advance political agendas.''
Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican who is a member of the Republican-controlled Congressional Hispanic Conference, has in the past expressed ambivalence about the idea of a separate Latino museum, saying that he preferred the idea of a museum dedicated to all immigrants.
A spokesman for Mr. Nunes, Andrew House, said in an e-mail that Mr. Nunes still supported the idea of a museum of American immigrants, provided it is privately financed.
The Latino museum commission envisions a 310,000-square-foot building, roughly the same size as the African-American museum. As of last summer it had narrowed its list of desired sites to four, all of them on the National Mall.
Three of the options would entail additions to existing buildings -- including, in one case, the vacant Smithsonian Arts and Industries Building.
But any construction on the Mall can be controversial. Judy Scott Feldman, the president of the National Coalition to Save Our Mall, said her group opposes any construction on the mall until a new master plan is created to guide development.
''What's happening is we just keep jamming things into the limited space,'' she said.
When the Latino commission started its work in 2009, supporters predicted the museum might be up and running in a decade. Today Mr. Rodriguez, the lobbyist, said, the path looks longer. He said he hoped to persuade politicians with large Latino constituencies of the merits of the proposal and build from that.
''I was in a conversation with a colleague of mine the other day,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''I said, 'You know, the African-American museum was in process for some 25 years,' and they said, 'No, actually, 75 years.' ''
Mr. Rodriguez paused in his recollection, and added, ''We don't want to get to that position.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Xavier Becerra, left above, introduced legislation to authorize a study about adding a Latino museum to others on the Mall, top. Representative Jack Kingston, right, does not want federal money used for such a museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEPHEN MORTON/GETTY IMAGES)(C4) MAP: A commission studying the idea of a Smithsonian museum of Latino Americans has identified four possible sites on the National Mall (in bold above). One, by the Capitol, is vacant land
another is the empty Arts and Industries Building
 two envision additions to existing buildings. (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); HISTORY (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PAINTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); APPROVALS (71%); CENSUS (71%)

COMPANY: AVN TEKNIK A-S (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (84%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (84%)

PERSON: JAMES P MORAN (55%); JACK KINGSTON (55%); XAVIER BECERRA (55%); KEN SALAZAR (54%); EVA LONGORIA PARKER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



479 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Passion Play in Rural Florida Endures Time's Many Trials

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
WAUCHULA, Fla. -- With less than two hours until showtime, a man sits amid the backstage chaos and studies his image in a propped-up mirror. The eyes are grayish blue, the goatee trim, the long dark hair flecked with gray. Not there yet. He scoops another dab of makeup to continue the annual transformation of Mike Graham, now 58, into Jesus Christ, forever 33.
An assistant hustles over with a sky-blue robe that an anxious Mr. Graham wriggles over his bare torso and summer shorts. ''Too little on me,'' he says apologetically, working his way out of it. Someone else asks him to assess a young girl's angel costume. ''I'd like her to be glittered,'' he says, before asking whether the child has been warned how to behave around the camels.
Then the man who plays Jesus for a living turns back to his imperfect reflection. 
For more than two decades, Mr. Graham, a preacher, has directed and assumed the lead role in a gritty Passion play, ''The Story of Jesus,'' that unfolds 10 nights a year in the modest Cattleman's Arena, in rural Hardee County. Across its dirt-floor stage come chariots and sword fights, miracles and betrayals, exotic animals and a cast of hundreds.
Over time, Mr. Graham's play has survived many trials, some natural, some economic and some, he suspects, the work of the devil. In 2004, the production weathered both the competition of the Mel Gibson movie ''The Passion of the Christ'' and the wrath of a hurricane that nearly swept Wauchula away but spared the play's many costumes and long-suffering donkey.
Other challenges, he says, have included his divorce years ago, which alienated many followers; a decline in attendance, due in part to competition from the Holy Land Experience theme park in Orlando; and other, curiously timed setbacks -- a car accident, a sudden illness -- that nearly prevented him from picking up his cross.
Finally, Mr. Graham knows the folly of trying to slow time, although he has tried. For one thing, he has enlisted a 27-year-old bridge inspector to play Jesus in certain taxing scenes. ''He handles the Trial, the Ascension, the Resurrection,'' Mr. Graham explains. ''I do all the miracles, basically. The adult life of Jesus, the Last Supper, the garden of Gethsemane scene, and the Crucifixion.''
Mr. Graham cuts his hair just once a year, and works out every morning in his home gym so that he is able to carry a heavy cross dozens of yards across the stage. Still, he has no desire to follow the great Josef Meier, who played Jesus in performances in South Dakota and in Lake Wales, just north of here, well into his 80s. A miracle in itself.
For now, Mr. Graham must set aside these concerns, and focus. The first Passion play of the season is just 90 minutes away.
Props, Paint and Petting Zoo
Under the late-afternoon sun, white cast members take turns getting spray-painted a color called Sebring brown, a shade that Mr. Graham thinks approaches a Middle Eastern skin tone. A man in a ''Sprayin' & Prayin' '' T-shirt dilutes the chocolate muck in plastic buckets, while another man, with a praying-hands tattoo on his left leg, paints a succession of outstretched arms, splayed legs and wincing faces.
This ritual is one of many that have evolved over the last quarter-century, ever since Mr. Graham, as a guitar-wielding youth pastor from southern Illinois, staged a crucifixion scene at a church banquet with a few teenagers and a couple of props. Some of those here tonight have never been in a Passion play; others have never known a spring without one. They are united now by glistening coats of Sebring brown.
Alongside the arena, clusters of ticketholders gather for some nonalcoholic tailgating, while a Roman centurion trots past on a horse. In a tent nearby, volunteers set out various souvenirs for sale, including cardboard license plates that say: The Story of Jesus -- I Was There! -- Wauchula, Florida.
A kind of off-limits petting zoo has sprung up beyond the arena's back entrance, with pens containing ducks, sheep, horses, two oxen, a donkey and three camels, just arrived from Ocala. Their owner, Butch Rivers, 70, a former stunt rider who now uses a cane -- ''You pay for it,'' he says of certain passions -- is excited to see the play again.
''The first time I saw this play it put chills on me,'' Mr. Rivers says.
An hour until showtime, and the Cattleman's Arena awaits its first-century bustle. The dirt has been raked and sprayed with water, to keep the dust down. All soda cans and other remnants of the future have been removed. The still-life setting is as serene as the blue-dyed river dug into the dirt, stage right.
But just a few yards away, in an exhibit hall serving as backstage, a large industrial fan stirs the nervous air. Actors hunt through a long rack of costumes that runs beneath a portrait gallery of beauty queens, the ''Cattlemen's Sweethearts'' of the near and distant past. Children wolf down treats and Gatorade before assuming the roles of angels and demons. Girding thespians reach for their fake spears and swords.
Behind the Scenes
Here is Joann Grantham, 56, volunteer prop master, who has done everything from scour discount stores for plastic fruit to retouch the throne of the child king. She has also helped to decide whether you're a shop owner, an apostle or a member of the Sanhedrin. (Mr. Graham, by the way, is aware of the history of anti-Semitic Passion plays, and takes pains not to traffic in stereotypes.)
In the past, Ms. Grantham has often played a ''false witness'' who spits on Jesus. But she chose to remain behind the scenes this year, after undergoing chemotherapy and radiation for breast cancer. When she goes to Wal-Mart, she says, she wears a hat to cover her bald head, but tonight she feels at home, hatless and happy.
Here, too, is Michelle Puma, 54, volunteer makeup artist, who has set up shop in the 4-H Club's concession booth. Everything is in its place: the long-haired wigs set on Styrofoam heads; the various jars of fake blood; the blue boxes of Jesus beards; the Ace Hardware bucket containing various props, including a crown of thorns.
One of Ms. Puma's challenges is to make young people look older, which is the opposite of Mr. Graham's task, as he peers critically into a mirror leaning against a menu board. ''My hair's just crazy tonight,'' he says.
Mr. Graham's words seem rooted more in worry than vanity. Because he deeply believes that this play is how God wants him to spread the Word, his mind races with all the things that could distract from that message, and have: camels arriving a week late, a teenager texting on stage, a stray chicken flying out of Lazarus's tomb. How about the time a couple of camera-carrying tourists wandered into the John the Baptist crowd scene?
He is also thinking of a shortfall. The production costs about $250,000 a year, which includes the modest salaries for Mr. Graham and his wife, Diane, who will play Mary Magdalene tonight, and various rentals, from the arena to the camels ($1,000 a night).
And, of course, here he is again, trying to be 33. But Mr. Graham has a plan: to replace ''The Story of Jesus,'' at least next year, with a new production, ''The Story of Noah,'' featuring himself in the lead role of the biblical patriarch, who was said to have lived several hundred years. Maybe someday, if he raises enough money, he will be able to build an outdoor theater of his own.
Fifteen minutes to showtime. Mr. Graham, now in full Jesus attire, climbs on top of a table, near a sign promoting beef (''Real Food for Real People''), and uses a microphone to deliver some last-minute reminders.
No cellphones. No gum. No glasses. No watches. And if you're a teenage girl who is wondering, ''Can I hang out with the Sanhedrin?'' -- the answer is no!
Mr. Graham leads everyone in a short prayer and a rallying hymn, then releases his energized flock with:
''Let's go! Do it!''
A Happy Ending
Showtime, and on a dirt stage in a darkened arena, the Story unfolds again.
An innkeeper, played by a Sebring-brown student of Harley-Davidson mechanics, leads a couple to shelter. The baby Jesus, played by an infant named Angelina, is raised triumphantly into the air, while four white-robed angels, teenage girls strapped into harnesses, glide by pulley across the ceiling.
Hear the wails of mothers whose baby boys have been slaughtered by Herod's soldiers. See the colorful scrum of early commerce. Breathe the dust kicked up by the scurry of sheep and the plodding of oxen. Marvel as Jesus raises a child from the dead, halts the stoning of an adulteress and, thanks to a concealed harness and a fog machine, walks on water.
During the brief intermission, take in the orange-blossom air of the Florida night. Buy a ''Story of Jesus'' fan for $2. Enjoy some nachos, or a bowl of mini doughnuts slathered with whipped cream. Return, then, to brace for the bloody, violent passion. The scourging, the spitting, the echo of nails hammered into hands and feet. The death.
But everyone in the aluminum bleachers knows: This is not how the play ends.
Soon the resurrected Jesus returns to the stage in glory. His crown of gold glittering, his sword raised high, he races back and forth on a galloping steed, perfect in its whiteness. The applause and cheers of 1,400 ring through a rodeo arena in central Florida.
When it is over, Mr. Graham, exhausted, 58, ready to do it again tomorrow, takes the microphone to thank the audience and ask for parting donations. And if anyone wants to be baptized, there are robes, towels and a manmade river dyed a deep blue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mounted soldiers/performers and ticket buyers prepared to enter the Cattleman's Arena for the opening night performance of ''The Story of Jesus.''
Mike Graham, 58, has directed and starred in the Passion play for more than two decades. He applied his ''Sebring brown'' makeup for his performance as Jesus.
In hair and makeup, two young performers were backstage at the arena in Hardee County with other volunteers getting ready for showtime.
A younger man helps in the role, but ''I do all the miracles, basically. The adult life of Jesus, the Last Supper, the garden of Gethsemane scene, and the Crucifixion,'' Mr. Graham says.
 An audience of 1,400 applauded and cheered ''The Story of Jesus'' on the opening night of a 10-day run in Wauchula, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (76%); MAMMALS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



480 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Upswing Propels A Broad-Based Rally

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Big earnings surprises gave Wall Street a positive spin on Wednesday, propelling shares to their best day in a month and lifting the Dow industrials to their highest in almost three years.
Investors had been set up for a series of disappointments but got an unexpected lift from two bellwether companies -- Intel and United Technologies -- helping to spur a broad-based rally that put equities on the path for more gains in coming weeks.
''Until yesterday, earnings were lackluster, not too exciting, even disappointing,'' said Nick Kalivas, senior equity index analyst at MF Global. He said the last round of reports ''shifted the psychology quite significantly.'' 
Shares of Intel rose 7.8 percent to $21.41 while United Technology gained 4.3 percent to $85.90.
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average had gained 186.79 points, or 1.52 percent, to 12,453.54. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 17.74 points, or 1.35 percent, to 1,330.36. The Nasdaq, driven by Intel, added 57.54 points, or 2.10 percent, to 2,802.51.
The Nasdaq posted its largest daily percentage gain since Octobe, while the Dow hit its highest close since early June 2008. The S.& P. 500 had its best performance in a month.
European shares also closed sharply higher, with the FTSE 100 in London adding 2.1 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt gaining almost 3 percent.
For a second day, investors in the United States received some positive news about the housing market in the United States.
The National Association of Realtors said that the sale of existing homes in March rose 3.7 percent from February to an annual rate of 5.10 million units. Economists had expected a smaller increase to a five million unit pace.
But the median home price fell 5.9 percent in March from a year earlier to $159,600.
''The underlying trend for existing home sales is improving, but only at a gradual pace,'' said Michael Gapen, an economist at Barclays Capital in New York. ''Demand should gradually firm as labor market conditions continue to improve.''
On Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that home construction rose 7.2 percent in March from February to a seasonally adjusted 549,000 units a year. Building permits, an indicator of future construction, rose 11.2 percent after hitting a five-decade low in February.
The trend of positive earnings continued after the market's close on Wednesday and could help spur another rally on Thursday, the last trading day before the Easter holiday. Apple rose 2.7 percent in after-hours trading after a blowout quarter that surged past expectations. Revenue for the technology giant rose 83 percent from the quarter a year ago.
F5 Networks, considered a momentum favorite for investors, climbed 7.3 percent to $99.74 after its second-quarter profit topped expectations and the company forecast third-quarter earnings largely above estimates.
American Express rose 0.8 percent to $47, recovering from earlier losses. While the company's profit topped expectations, expenses at the credit card company rose.
I.B.M. slipped 0.4 percent to $164.75 after reporting a drop in signings of new business at its global services division during the first quarter. Its profit and revenue, however, came in above analysts' projections, and it raised its full-year profit view.
In the bond market, Treasury prices fell Wednesday as investors preferred riskier assets. The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 12/32, while the yield rose to 3.41 percent from 3.36 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRENDS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (88%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); EASTER SEASON (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (58%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); UTX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



481 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: A Surge in Gold Nears a Limit

BYLINE: By IAN CAMPBELL, CHRISTOPHER SWANN and UNA GALANI

 BODY:
Worried about the euro zone? Buy gold. Worried about the federal deficit? Buy gold. Fancy a quick speculative bet? Well, you can't lose with gold or silver, which has almost tripled in price in just over six months. But precious metals can't be both havens and speculative plays.
The gold and silver bugs will say global sovereign risks justify their outlook. Standard & Poor's has just put a negative outlook on its rating of the United States. Uncle Sam isn't about to default, but still lacks a plan to straighten his finances. Gold bugs fear the Federal Reserve will buy more domestic debt, devaluing the dollar and precipitating inflation, making gold -- now at more than $1,500 a troy ounce -- all the more precious. 
A weak dollar ought to favor the euro. But that saddles investors with different sovereign risks. The euro zone won't print money, because Germany has had high inflation before and doesn't want a repeat. But countries on the periphery of the euro zone can't pay their way, hence fears that Greece must undergo a debt restructuring that would be messy for its banks and risk contagion.
This combination would be compelling if the interest rate outlook were benign and gold didn't already look pumped up by speculative buying. But the specter of inflation means rates are already rising outside the United States. The European Central Bank, for instance, is already raising rates. And global recovery is well under way, with the likes of Intel and I.B.M. reporting strong earnings. The latest Institute for Supply Management survey of United States manufacturing says the recent trend of ''rapid growth'' continued in March. Surveys confirm a German manufacturing boom. China's gross domestic product grew at an annualized 9.7 percent in the first quarter.
The likelihood is that the Fed will join the global trend and raise rates late this year or early next. The opportunity cost of holding precious metals will then rise. The end of ultra-cheap money in the United States threatens buoyant equity and commodity markets too -- but they get an offsetting benefit from the growth that is driving monetary tightening. With these markets rightly signaling global recovery, the precious metals bubble looks set to be pricked before long.
Oil Thirst in Mideast
Middle Eastern demand for its own oil could be a bigger threat to the global energy balance than unrest in the region -- at least in the long term. Rising demand at home threatens to limit Saudi Arabia's major role as the world's swing producer and could spell structurally higher prices for global markets.
A Saudi official this month expressed unusual public concern about the nation's energy use. Oil consumption, bolstered by car use and air-conditioning, has risen by half in the last decade to an estimated 2.7 million barrels a day this year. Saudi Aramco, the national oil group, estimates demand could reach 8.3 million barrels by 2030.
Currently, after exports and domestic consumption, Saudi Arabia has spare capacity estimated at 2.8 million barrels a day, a crucial buffer amounting to about 3 percent of global oil consumption. Aramco's forecast suggests that could be fully absorbed by domestic demand this side of 2025.
Meanwhile, oil consumption in Kuwait is rising fast enough to start reducing exports within a decade, the Brookings Institution says. The Middle East is likely to be consuming 11 million barrels a day by 2035, up from roughly six million in 2007, according to the International Energy Agency, a rate of increase second only to fast-growing Asian economies.
Indonesia offers a cautionary tale. In 1980, it exported 1.2 million barrels of oil a day. A tripling of domestic consumption since then -- driven in part by hefty subsidies -- has made it a net importer. Low oil prices at home play their part in encouraging Middle Eastern demand, too. The cost of gasoline in Saudi Arabia, for instance, is less than a sixth the level in the United States.
Attempts to remove such subsidies are politically perilous. But almost giving oil away at home when it could draw $100 a barrel abroad doesn't make economic sense. Though Saudi Arabia has outlined plans to increase capacity significantly if needed, some believe it may already be near its peak production.
For now, the world remains amply supplied with oil despite the turmoil in Libya. But the long-term trend suggests a less comfortable future. Too much delay by the United States and others in finding alternatives to imported oil could eventually become very expensive.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gold prices, having touched $1,500 an ounce, seem poised for a retreat soon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARKO DATTA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); SOVEREIGN RISK (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COUNTRY RISK (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); TRENDS (86%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); CONSUMPTION (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (57%); INTEL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



482 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Is Planning to Sell Its Midtown Headquarters

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which has consolidated departments and reduced its payroll under severe financial pressure, now plans to sell its headquarters and two adjoining buildings on Madison Avenue in a deal that it says could reap more than $150 million.
Transportation officials are hoping that a developer will pay top dollar for the properties, three 20-story office buildings that form the eastern blockfront between 44th and 45th Streets. A buyer could demolish the structures and erect a modern skyscraper, and could also buy unused development rights over Grand Central Terminal and build an even taller tower than might otherwise be allowed. 
''The point is, it's a valuable asset,'' said Jeffrey B. Rosen, the transportation authority's director of real estate.
The decision comes as developers are beginning to shake off a three-year hibernation following the collapse of a speculative real estate boom in 2008. Investors are once again buying office buildings, while developers are looking to revive dormant projects or start new ones.
The three buildings might look bland and unappealing, but the allure is their location in a prime office district next to Grand Central, a workday entry point for executives coming from New York's northern suburbs. The Yale Club is on the same square block.
While the buildings -- 341, 345 and 347 Madison Avenue -- may not be of architectural note, the authority's headquarters and its hearing rooms have been the site of many a raucous demonstration, by employees, transit riders opposed to fare increases and cuts in service, or opponents of development on authority properties. It bought 347 Madison in 1979 for $11.9 million and 341 and 345 Madison in 1991 for $12.25 million and $23.75 million respectively.
The transportation authority considered selling the buildings before, in 1998 and in 2005, but decided against it each time. ''I'd take a look,'' the developer Douglas Durst said Tuesday, ''for the third time.''
Mr. Rosen said a sale, or possibly a long-term lease, would happen this time. Jay H. Walder, the authority's chairman, has streamlined departments, cutting 3,500 positions in the last year from its New York City Transit, Metro-North Railroad and Long Island Rail Road operations. The authority is also evaluating its space needs at 26 other buildings it owns or leases.
About 20 percent of the job cuts were at the authority's headquarters. The plan is to move many of the remaining 873 employees at the buildings on Madison Avenue to 2 Broadway, a 30-story building between Beaver and Stone Streets in the financial district where the authority already has nearly 4,200 employees, including the New York City Transit administration.
The transportation authority said that a sale could generate ''substantially'' more than $150 million for the properties, an estimate that appraisers and real estate executives did not dispute.
Peter S. Kalikow, who was chairman of the authority from 2001 to 2007, said he had decided not to sell the buildings when he was in charge because they housed the Metro-North administration, which he believed should remain close to Grand Central. ''Moving New York City Transit to 2 Broadway is best thing we ever did,'' he said in an interview this week. ''But there are no Metro-North trains down there.''
The authority, however, says that if it sold the headquarters buildings, it would find new space for Metro-North somewhere in the Midtown area. The Long Island Rail Road offices are at its hub in Jamaica, Queens.
In recent years, the authority agreed to sell the development rights over its West Side Yards for $1 billion to Related Companies and the rights over its Brooklyn property that forms part of the Atlantic Yards project for $100 million to Forest City Ratner. But the money has been slow to come because of the recession and a restructuring of the deals.
So far, the transportation authority has gotten $20 million from the Brooklyn sale and $20.9 million from Related, which has also put $32.6 million in escrow for the deal, with another $10.9 million due next month.
Still, the timing might be right for the authority. Dan Fasulo, director of research at Real Capital Analytics, said the real estate market was showing signs of life, with vacancy rates falling at prime office buildings in Manhattan and few large blocks of space available anymore. Rising rents are prompting some developers to build, rather than buy existing buildings, which might make the authority's sites attractive.
''Tenants today are asking for all the bells and whistles in new buildings,'' Mr. Fasulo said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Metropolitan Transportation Authority plans to sell the three buildings on Madison Avenue from 44th to 45th Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



483 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: New Swiss Tax Rules Signal Big Changes for Private Banks

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
The Swiss have proposed new banking rules in an attempt to improve relations with their neighbors by making it harder for other Europeans to hide money from the tax collector back home.
While the proposal should preserve Switzerland's prized banking secrecy, it is likely to accelerate a shift away from banks relying on undeclared assets. That, analysts say, could result in more consolidation and downsizing among the private banks.
''This will be a huge change for the Swiss market,'' said Andrio Orler, a partner and tax specialist at the law firm Tavernier Tschanz in Geneva. ''It's an attempt to retain banking secrecy while coming in line with international standards and responding to pressure from the West.'' 
Switzerland aims to sign new treaties by the summer with Germany and Britain under which their citizens would pay taxes on more of their undeclared assets in Swiss banks. France and Italy are expected to follow suit.
Such deals would go beyond an accord reached with the European Union, which took effect in July 2005. That agreement was meant to resolve an issue that has long been problematic -- Europeans placing their money in Switzerland to avoid taxes. But in reality, the scope was limited and, according to experts, numerous loopholes existed.
For the German and British governments, there now appears to be a basic calculation: better to have a predictable stream of tax revenue -- exactly how much remains unclear -- than a string of slow-moving lawsuits.
Estimates in Switzerland suggest Berlin might reap about 50 billion euros, or $71.4 billion, in the first year. For London, the figure would be lower, but nonetheless welcome for a government wrestling with a budget deficit.
The Swiss are seeking to avoid repetitions of the legal action that led to UBS, the country's largest bank, paying a $780 million fine in 2009 for helping Americans evade taxes. Swiss officials also say they hope to end the practice, more common in recent years, of Swiss bank employees' selling stolen client lists to foreign governments, as well as the threat of more Swiss bank employees being arrested while abroad.
Mario Tuor, a Swiss government spokesman for international financial affairs, said the issue of undeclared money should be settled by June and that the Swiss expected to win improved market access in Germany and Britain for their companies.
Much is at stake for the Swiss economy. According to the Swiss Bankers Association, the financial sector generates about 11 percent of gross domestic output and provides about 200,000 jobs.
The British treasury declined to comment, except to say that the talks were ''ongoing and are positive.'' A spokesman for the German finance ministry said that Berlin hoped to reach an agreement by the summer.
Under the proposal, nonresident Germans and Britons with Swiss bank accounts would pay a flat, one-time tax, expected to be around 20 percent, on retained income, including dividend and coupon payments, interest rate income and capital gains from assets held in Switzerland. Details like how retroactive a charge would be and how assets will be valued remain to be seen.
Subsequently, a flat-rate withholding tax, also based on capital gains and income, would be levied each year. It would be deducted by the bank, transferred to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration, and once a year passed to the tax authorities of the clients' home countries.
Once it has been paid, the individual's tax obligation toward the home country would have been fulfilled and client anonymity preserved.
In 2009, the Swiss brokerage firm Helvea gave an estimate of 725.8 billion Swiss francs, or about $808.5 billion today, in undeclared European Union assets, about 84 percent of all European assets held in the country. Germany had the most, followed by Italy, France and Britain.
The shift will bring further change to the smaller private banks that have traditionally served as niche fund managers to global elites, who often want to keep their financial affairs secret. As the size of the undeclared funds that they manage ebbs, these banks will have to fight in the increasingly tough wealth management market on the basis of fiscally transparent services.
Among the smaller, private banks are Lombard Odier, Pictet & Cie, Bank Sarasin, EFG International, Julius Bar and Vontobel, as well as lenders owned by local governments including Zurcher Kantonalbank and St. Galler Kantonalbank.
Some are likely to merge, some may be bought by larger groups and others will have to reduce their services, according to Martin Naville, chief executive of the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce in Zurich.
Most realize that they can no longer base their models on receiving undeclared funds, and that has drawn some criticism in the Swiss news media. ''Everybody's pointing fingers at the other guys,'' Mr. Naville said. ''But it's all rumors, no one really knows who holds what.''
There might even be a rare window for acquisitions by foreign banks.
One private bank, Bank Sarasin, has already tried to adjust to the new landscape. It will no longer handle undeclared funds by 2012 and has been expanding in emerging markets like Qatar, India, Singapore and Poland. It no longer accepts American clients because of the additional regulatory burden resulting from new American legislation.
Joachim H. Strahle, Sarasin's chief executive, said banking secrecy still had a place, arguing that the trend of Western governments' mining personal data as a security tool had scared away many wealthy clients regardless of their tax status. ''A lot of people just don't like their government having all this data,'' he said.
Other Swiss bankers contend that client confidentiality can offer legitimate means of sheltering money from despotic regimes or keeping their finances private for personal reasons, like hiding unusual pastimes, or keeping money away from ex-spouses.
In any case, Swiss banks say they have more to sell than secrecy, citing political and economic stability, strong currency and professionalism.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Something to Declare: By one estimate, European Union citizens have nearly $1 trillion in Swiss bank accounts, and more than 80 percent of the money is not declared to the tax authorities in their respective countries. (Source: Helvea) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EURO (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); ARRESTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



484 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Profit Jumps, But Revenue Falls Slightly

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
8:20 p.m. Updated
Wells Fargo & Company posted a 48 percent increase in first-quarter profit on Wednesday, but investors were not impressed by the results, given fears that sluggish mortgage loan growth would erode the bank's earnings power.
Shares of the bank, which is based in San Francisco, fell 4.1 percent as traders looked past bottom-line earnings of $3.8 billion and focused on slow top-line growth. 
Revenue fell 5.2 percent to $20.3 billion as rising interest rates caused the mortgage refinancing boom to slow down.
The bank, which is the nation's biggest mortgage underwriter, said that home loan origination volume fell by more than 34 percent from the fourth quarter.
Nonetheless, Wells Fargo beat analysts' estimates by a penny and recorded a record profit with the help of some sophisticated financial management.
The bank reduced the amount it set aside to cover future loan losses by about $3 billion from a year ago even as its pile of bad loans decreased.
The reserve reduction strategy has been a favorite of the major banks this quarter, as they have all taken advantage of the improved economy to lower loan-loss provisions. That leaves more money to be counted as profit, although it can camouflage underlying weakness.
Other giant banks with big Wall Street businesses were able to make up for some of the missing income with stronger results from investment banking and trading. But Wells Fargo, which is more oriented to retail banking, could not.
However, Timothy J. Sloan, Wells Fargo's newly installed chief financial officer, brushed aside concerns that Wells Fargo would be severely hurt by a fall-off in its mortgage business.
''If rates go up, it is probably because the economy is going to grow,'' he said in an interview. ''And if the economy is growing, it's more likely the rest of our businesses will grow.'' With an improved economy, he said, he foresees a pickup in its wealth management and small business lending operations, as well as finding new profits by deploying more than $100 billion of cash it has on hand.
Investors were not convinced. Wells Fargo's stock fell $1.24, to $28.83 a share, while shares of its rivals, Bank of America, Citigroup, and JPMorgan Chase, were flat.
Along with the slowdown in mortgage lending, Wells Fargo faces rising operating costs for servicing loans that are headed into foreclosure, especially after reaching a deal with federal regulators this month to increase staff levels and improve oversight.
Wells Fargo said it took a quarterly charge of about $214 million on its mortgage servicing business after factoring in the higher operating expenses.
The bank has strengthened internal processes and hired 1,000 staff members after adding several thousand last year.
Wells also said it was setting aside an additional $472 million to cover other foreclosure expenses, like fines and litigation costs. That is up from about $193 million in the fourth quarter.
Like the other big banks, Wells Fargo may be required to buy back bad loans it sold to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other private investors.
In the first quarter, the bank set aside $249 million to cover future repurchases, after setting aside $464 million in the fourth quarter.
Still, the spill of red ink has slowed. Although the housing market and broader economy remain fragile, Wells Fargo said it had released $1 billion from its loan loss reserves in the first three months of the year and expected to continue drawing down its reserves in the coming quarters.
''We wanted to see more sustained performance in the improvement of the portfolio,'' Mr. Sloan said. ''We have seen that trend continue.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); RETAIL BANKING (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



485 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Prices Surge as Investors Rush to Safety of Gold

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
The price of gold rose above $1,500 an ounce on Wednesday for the first time, pushed higher by investor concerns about global inflation, government debt and turmoil in the Arab world.
The prices of other precious metals, like silver and platinum, have also surged recently on what analysts call a flight to quality, when uncertainty about the economic and political outlook sends investors into assets that are perceived to be safest.
''We're seeing a perfect storm for gold and silver prices,'' said Robin Bhar, a senior metals analyst in London for the French bank Credit Agricole. 
The list of factors that have supported the price of precious metals in recent weeks is long. It includes worries about the sustainability of European debt levels and whether countries like Greece will soon default; the weaker dollar; rising inflation in many parts of the world; continued unrest in North Africa and the Middle East, which has also pushed up oil prices; and concern over the United States budget, which also stirred fear in world stock markets earlier in the week.
Stocks recovered somewhat Wednesday after strong earnings reports restored investor confidence, analysts said.
Other factors that are helping precious metals include the buildup to the early autumn wedding season in India, during which families lavish gifts of gold on brides; the longstanding shortage of skilled labor and equipment at certain mines; and the increase in the number of mutual funds investing in gold.
The recent popularity of gold-based exchange-traded funds has also propelled prices of the underlying metal by making it easier for more investors to trade in gold.
Each share in a gold exchange-traded fund represents part of an ounce of bullion, but it comes without the inconvenience of holding the metal or the risk of buying futures and options. Before such funds became popular in the middle of the last decade, individuals who wanted to invest in gold had to buy gold jewelry, coins or bullion -- and pay the high security and transaction costs. They could also invest in the shares of gold mining companies -- more of an arm's-length exercise -- although the cost of investing in those companies has also risen recently.
In addition to benefiting from increased demand for the underlying metal, gold and silver futures contracts are seen as attractive substitutes for paper investments, given that they can be redeemed for a physical commodity.
''Gold is sometimes a currency, sometimes a commodity and sometimes a store of value,'' analysts at Merrill Lynch wrote recently.
Gold for June delivery rose as high as $1,506.50 a troy ounce during trading in New York on Wednesday before settling at $1,498.90, a gain of $3.80 on the day. It was the first time that gold had breached the $1,500 level.
While that represented the highest level in nominal terms, the inflation-adjusted price was higher during the early 1980s, when it was well above $2,000 in current dollars.
Silver prices also climbed on Wednesday. Silver for May delivery climbed 1.2 percent, to $44.46 a troy ounce in New York, after rising as high as $45.40, the highest price since 1980. A troy ounce is 31.1 grams, or 1.1 ounces.
Although gold prices are likely to remain volatile and are vulnerable to retreat as investors take profits on their gains, few analysts are willing to bet on a sharp reversal in the near term. ''As the purchasing power of workers in emerging markets increases, we see demand for gold as a commodity increasing over the next few years,'' the Merrill Lynch report said.
In a research note published Friday, Goldman Sachs forecast a gold futures price of $1,690 an ounce in 12 months' time, driven primarily by the assumption that the Federal Reserve's continued stimulus policy, known as quantitative easing, would keep interest rates low in the United States, bolstering demand for the metal as an investment.
The market for silver, which Mr. Bhar of Credit Agricole described as a ''poor man's gold,'' is far more illiquid than gold. Mr. Bhar said several hedge funds appeared to have been ''bullying'' the price higher in recent sessions. Prices of palladium and platinum have also climbed.
Less valuable base metals like copper, tin, aluminum and zinc, which are used in large quantities in construction and heavy industries, have also climbed since last year, after plummeting during the financial crisis.
But among these commodities, there have been more divergences, according to Jim Lennon, head of commodity research in London for Macquarie Securities.
Markets for commodities like coking coal, used to make steel, iron ore and copper have been tight, he said, driven by inventory accumulation from producers and concerns about output bottlenecks at mines in Africa, Australia, Brazil, Chile and China.
For other base metals like aluminum, zinc and nickel, supply and demand appear better matched, he added.
Overhanging many of these markets remained the question of China, and whether its roaring economy might soon cool down. Many metals' traders and analysts have had to become China watchers, poring over the economic data issued by that country and studying accumulations of stocks in Chinese warehouses. During the first quarter, China's economy expanded 9.7 percent from a year earlier.
Investment and consumer spending in China have remained robust despite the government's effort to temper growth through interest rate increases and curbs on bank lending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gold bullion. Gold passed $1,500 an ounce on Wednesday for the first time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARKO DATTA/REUTERS) (B1)
A jeweler in New York City. Investors sought safety in all precious metals, and prices rose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) CHART: Gold Fever: Concerns about the economy and inflation are fueling growing investor interest in gold, though the price is still below its peak of the early 1980s, adjusted for inflation. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FUTURES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GOLD MINING (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PLATINUM MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MINES & MINING (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); FINE JEWELRY (73%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (65%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (57%); ACA (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GREECE (78%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



486 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Home Sales Top Forecasts in March

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes in the United States rose more than expected in March, a trade group said Wednesday, raising cautious optimism about the housing market.
The National Association of Realtors said sales rose 3.7 percent month over month to an annual rate of 5.10 million units after an upwardly revised pace of 4.92 million units in February. 
Economists polled by Reuters had expected sales to rise 2.5 percent to a 5-million-unit pace from the previously reported 4.88-million-unit rate. Sales have now risen in six of the last eight months.
''It's slow, steady progress, but you cannot not be disturbed by the slow pace of recovery,'' said Pierre Ellis, an economist at Decision Economics in New York. ''Demand is rising even with higher mortgage rates so that's encouraging.''
The housing market is struggling to find its footing as a wave of foreclosed properties keeps supply elevated and prices depressed.
Last month, foreclosures and short sales, which typically occur at about 20 percent below market value, accounted for 40 percent of transactions. That was the highest since April 2009 and was up from 39 percent in February.
The median home price fell 5.9 percent in March from a year earlier, to $159,600. Compared with March last year, sales were down 6.3 percent.
''A sustained turnaround in the housing market is still far off based on earlier-released depressed readings for housing starts, building permits and builders' confidence indices,'' said Krishen Rangasamy, an economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto.
A separate report on Wednesday showed demand for home loans rose last week, as interest rates eased and purchase activity picked up. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its purchase index rose 10 percent to 210.8, the highest since early December.
Last month, all-cash purchases made up a record 35 percent of sales in March and the NAR said the lower and upper ends of the market were showing strong activity, with the middle part remaining sluggish.
Sales last month rose across the board, with multifamily dwellings rising 1.6 percent and single-family home units advancing 4 percent.
At March's sales pace, the supply of existing homes on the market slipped to 8.4 months' worth, from 8.5 months in February. However, the number of previously owned homes on the market rose 1.5 percent, to 3.55 million.
A supply of six to seven months is generally considered ideal, with higher readings pointing to lower house prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%)

COMPANY: CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



487 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: At Their Feet, Crafted By Hand

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
Port Washington, Wis.
''IT takes about a year until you're good at this job, and three years until you know just about everything,'' said Joe Merrill, a 34-year-old inseamer for the Allen Edmonds shoe company. In his hands he held a partly assembled black cap-toe dress shoe. He quickly spun the shoe around, working freehand, as a thin, flexible strip of leather was stitched along the bottom perimeter by a frighteningly forceful piece of machinery. It is a job he has done for the last three of his 11 years working in the factory.
''So I guess I know just about everything,'' he said.
Not that long ago, there was a saying around this 50,000-square-foot plant, one of the last on the north shore of Lake Michigan that is still making shoes: When someone in his 60s retired, or died, there was one less Allen Edmonds customer. During the disastrous fourth quarter of 2008, in fact, the 90-year-old company laid off more than 8 percent of its work force. Its outlook was as dark as, well, shoe polish. 
And yet, this year, Allen Edmonds is on track to produce 500,000 pairs of shoes, up from 350,000 last year. Since January 2010, the company has added more than 118 employees and increased its work shifts, the results of a turnaround that has surprised even veteran shoemakers like Mr. Merrill. More than 400 pairs of shoes pass through his hands in a day, in a process that involves 220 steps from leather to lace-ups. It can be tedious work, he said, but enjoyable because customers appreciate what he does: making handcrafted shoes that, once completed, will cost $325.
''The quality comes from the individual workman,'' he said, picking up another shoe. ''If bellbottoms can make a comeback, why not expensive shoes?''
It has not been lost on workers at Allen Edmonds, or those at about a half-dozen shoe companies that still produce in the United States, that the craft of shoemaking is experiencing something of a renaissance. Over the last few years, as heritage brands have been rediscovered by a new generation of customers, especially young men, labels once seen as relics of American work wear now have an unexpected cool factor, stocked by stylish boutiques and obsessed about on fashion blogs.
That has generally been perceived as a welcome development by those companies, some of which had been struggling financially or were, until recently, at risk of extinction. But it has also created a dynamic that is challenging for them to navigate, as designers adapt their products for a more fashion-conscious customer, as younger workers are trained on decades-old machines, and as executives wonder how long the newfound popularity of heritage brands can last. It frightens a shoemaker to describe a high-quality shoe as trendy.
''We are not interested in being a hot line,'' said Bob Clark, a vice president of the Alden Shoe Company, founded in Middleborough, Mass., in 1884. Alden is the last remaining shoe company of the hundreds in New England in the 19th century. Its closest neighbor, a FootJoy factory in Brockton, closed two years ago.
Not much has changed in the way shoes are made there, except that Alden has become a hot line, sold by boutiques like Epaulet in Brooklyn and Leffot in the West Village. It was one of the first heritage brands that J. Crew helped put on the hipster map. Mr. Clark said that the company has more business than it can handle at the moment, but that it is not planning to increase production.
''Making rapid changes to capitalize on the fashion of the moment doesn't serve our long-term interest,'' he said, ''or that of our customers.''
Other companies have wrestled uncomfortably with fashion's embrace. Red Wing, the century-old maker of work boots in Red Wing, Minn., memorably stumbled when it came out with women's pumps as part of a lifestyle collection; but the company's classic styles, meanwhile, have become fetishized by fashion insiders. (Last fall, David Murphy, the chief executive of Red Wing, told the St. Paul Pioneer Press: ''Do I want spiky-haired weird folks on the runway wearing our boots? I'm not disturbed by it, but I don't care.'')
Yet the revived interest in labels like Allen Edmonds, Red Wing and Quoddy, which makes hand-sewn moccasins in Perry, Me., is being driven more by changing consumer habits than by fashion. Steven Taffel, the owner of Leffot, said that the recession had caused men to look for shoes that offered more value for the dollar, even if they were more expensive. While they may cost $600 for a style of cap-toe boots, Alden shoes, if taken care of properly, can last 15 to 20 years.
''You've heard the expression, 'They don't make things the way they used to,' '' Mr. Taffel said. ''Well, a lot of guys are seeing that if it's been around a long time, then it must be a good shoe.''
That change has even helped draw younger people into shoemaking. Florsheim, for example, was brought out of bankruptcy a decade ago by the grandchildren of its founder, who have revamped the line by introducing a quirky collaboration with Duckie Brown and hiring young designers for its in-house team in Milwaukee. The company now manufactures most of its shoes overseas.
''I had no idea there were actually any footwear companies in Wisconsin,'' said David DeZur, 36, a designer for Florsheim (which was originally based in Chicago). ''And I grew up in Wisconsin.''
Mr. DeZur, who has also worked at Cole Haan and Converse, was attracted to Florsheim because ''there's a certain mystique about it right now,'' he said. ''There is a lot more energy coming to a brand that had been kind of quiet for a while.''
At the Alden factory in Massachusetts, there are roughly 100 workers, many of them second- or third-generation shoemakers. While it is not for everyone, Mr. Clark said, ''the fact we have a much younger work force than we did 15 years ago is evidence there is more appeal to this work.''
One of the challenges facing these companies now is how to actually manage their growth. Because most of the footwear manufacturing capacity in the United States is long gone, so are the suppliers of the machines and parts they use to make shoes, and it can take months to train a new employee whenever an experienced hand leaves.
''Everyone who has survived and is still in business making shoes in the U.S. is doing so because they have a smart business model and they make good shoes,'' said Michael Williams, the author of the design blog A Continuous Lean and an avid follower of old-fashioned fashion. ''But we're never going to go back to the New England where there were hundreds of companies making shoes.''
At Allen Edmonds, there is a constant, fascinating tension between the new and the old. On the factory floor, Randy Huibregtse, who had been doing odd landscaping jobs until he found a position here last year, attached the toe of each shoe to the sole using a machine that functioned at the touch of a button. His station was opposite that of Clarence Jacoby Jr., who has worked here for 35 years, using an ancient-looking machine covered in levers and grease. Mr. Huibregtse said he could handle 400 pairs of shoes in a day.
''I've already done 550,'' Mr. Jacoby said.
When Paul Grangaard, a board member who was a partner in the private equity company that owned Allen Edmonds, became its chief executive in 2008, everyone knew that the company, and the entire industry, were shrinking. Only about 1 percent of shoes bought in the United States last year were actually produced here, according to the American Apparel and Footwear Association. Mr. Grangaard gave its designers leeway to try new styles, while he also brought back classics like the cap toe and a wingtip brogue. They were among the company's top-selling styles last year.
''I'm a strong believer that the new normal is a long-term thing,'' he said, adding that Made in America has been a selling point. ''You know when you see Italian designers making round-toe wingtip shoes in Florence that the direction has changed in terms of who's copying who.''
Still, change has not always been easy. When Mark McNeill, the director of new product development, proposed a few styles made of natural, untreated leather for a more casual collection, the samples came back looking unexpectedly refined. He threw his hands up in the air. What happened?
''They were polished and shined to perfection,'' he said. ''They said: 'That's what we do. We make perfect shoes.' ''
Now designers are experimenting with novel fabrics and treatments. Mr. Grangaard suggested making a shoe that paired brown with navy -- the classic footwear no-no. It will be included in the fall collection. They've even added color laces, something longtime workers described as enlightening.
''Can you even imagine bringing in an orange shoelace two years ago?'' said Rob Stollenwerk, the engineering and material manager, who has worked here for 30 years.
''We had brown laces and black laces,'' said Ed Pawlowski, the head patternmaker, shaking his head at the memory. ''What more did you need?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW AGAIN: A dress shoe made by Alden carried at the Leffot store on Christopher Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
SHOEMAKING: Joe Merrill, left, works on a pair of shoes at Allen Edmonds in Port Washington, Wisc. Below left, shoe lasts, and below right, leather soles.
HANDS-ON: Above, at Allen Edmonds, stitched shoes and, far left, sewing. Mark McNeill, center, and design team members, Rob Stollenwerk, left, and Ed Pawlowski.
AMERICAN MADE: Top, pieces of leather are stitched together at Allen Edmonds. Above, the process includes cork. Left, a worker cuts leather. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
UPDATING: David DeZur, a designer at Florsheim, at the company's headquarters in Glendale, Wisc. Below, the Florsheim pop-up shop in SoHo sells Duckie Brown's quirky takes on tradition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR MFG (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAKE MICHIGAN (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



488 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: A Good Law That's Working

 BODY:
After years of overfishing, many fish populations have begun to recover. On Monday, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke announced that New England's fishermen will be allowed to increase their catch of 11 commercially important fish stocks in Atlantic waters this summer. 
This progress, and that announcement, can be traced directly to the Magnuson-Stevens Act, a 35-year-old law that imposes ambitious timetables for rebuilding depleted fish stocks and gives scientists a major say in setting limits. So it is disturbing that New York's two Democratic senators, Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand -- both with solid environmental records -- want to weaken the law.
Along with two senators from North Carolina, Kay Hagan, a Democrat, and Richard Burr, a Republican, they have introduced the Flexibility in Rebuilding American Fisheries Act. It would extend the deadlines for rebuilding fish populations and give greater weight to the ''economic consequences'' of fishing restrictions -- another way of saying that science should play a less-decisive role.
Senators Schumer and Gillibrand are responding to the complaints of Long Island fishermen who say they are seeing more fish like summer flounder and argue that they should be allowed to exceed existing quotas. But they should ask themselves this: Why are they seeing more fish? As in New England, the reason is Magnuson-Stevens, and the limits on overfishing it imposes.
The senators need to show more patience. As fish populations improve, catch limits are relaxed. The summer flounder quota has gone up by 89 percent since 2008 -- a healthy jump for fishermen but not enough to slow the species' steady recovery. Since many other species around the country have not fared as well as those in eastern waters, and still need time, the message here is clear: Leave Magnuson-Stevens alone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); FISHERIES (90%); FISHING LAW (89%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHERIES LANDINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (70%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (70%); KAY HAGAN (55%); RICHARD BURR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



489 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: A Web Edge for Makers of Real Stuff

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Plenty of people want to build a popular Web site and become the next Mark Zuckerberg. But some technology entrepreneurs have a more old-fashioned goal: they want to make something you can hold in your hand.
Like, actual stuff.
This can be risky territory, since making a physical product often requires a big upfront investment, and the smallest setback can wipe out profits. But inventors are getting around the hurdles -- in part by using the Web to find backers and buyers.
They are also thinking small, as in smaller products and accessories that require less capital and are relatively easy to make and distribute.
Dave Petrillo and David Jackson, for example, friends and mechanical engineers from Pennington, N.J., had an idea for bean-shaped steel shells that go into a cup of coffee and quickly cool it to a drinkable temperature, then keep it warm longer. The shells contain a heat-absorbing gel. 
The two men spent nine months fine-tuning the design for the beans, which they called Coffee Joulies. Then they scraped together $3,000 and built 100 prototypes by hand in Mr. Petrillo's parents' basement.
Making the first batch ''was harder than we originally thought,'' Mr. Petrillo said, so they began hunting for a way to speed the process. They found one in an unlikely place: a video clip on YouTube featuring a silverware factory in upstate New York. Making the handles of knives turned out to be similar to making Joulies.
Then, like a growing number of other inventors and designers in need of capital, the men turned to Kickstarter, a start-up in New York that lets people present a sales pitch for a creative project and ask others to put cash behind it. This allowed them to gauge the appeal of the project before sinking a lot of time and money into it.
''We thought about investors and design competitions, but when we saw Kickstarter we decided to go for it,'' Mr. Petrillo said. They created a three-minute video to demonstrate their product and said that anyone who gave them $40 would get five Coffee Joulies. They hoped to raise $9,500, but within a few weeks they have raised $177,000, and the total is still rising.
Yancey Strickler, one of the founders of Kickstarter, said the company originally thought the site would attract more one-time projects and experiments, like plans to record an album or make a documentary film. But he said Kickstarter had been pleasantly surprised to see homespun gadgets and inventions bubble up in popularity.
''We didn't realize we would move in this direction, but these projects are ingenious and clever and we want all of them to work,'' he said.
Mr. Strickler pointed to one of the first gadget-focused projects on Kickstarter to gain significant momentum, the TikTok, which turns an iPod Nano into a wristwatch. Its creators raised nearly $1 million.
''I think people really value having a good story to tell about how they got that watch,'' he said.
Tom Gerhardt and Dan Provost, designers living in New York, came up with an accessory for the iPhone 4 called the Glif, which acts as a kind of kickstand or mount for the phone. The project was so successful on Kickstarter -- more than 5,000 people placed an order -- that the two decided to form a company and use the site to start a second project, the Cosmonaut, a marker-shaped stylus for the iPad. That project has attracted more than 3,000 backers.
''We didn't have any experience with bringing a commercial product to market,'' Mr. Provost said. ''But we are approaching a new method of product development.''
Technology specialists say the interest in projects like these is part of a cultural shift, in which shoppers are increasingly looking for a more intimate connection to the creators and the sources of the things they buy, reflected in the surging interest in farmers' markets and local clothing designers.
''People are becoming more cognizant about where their things are made and are starting to expect the same information transparency about where everything they buy is from,'' said Rachel Botsman, co-author of the book ''What's Mine Is Yours: The Rise of Collaborative Consumption.''
''They are looking for smaller suppliers they trust,'' she added.
The makers of the Coffee Joulies and the Cosmonaut had another selling point: they could boast that their products were made in the United States. They found recession-battered American factories that were willing to work with newer producers and make products in smaller runs.
The Coffee Joulies are made at Sherrill Manufacturing in Sherrill, N.Y., whose work force has dwindled to 15 from a peak of 160 in the 1990s, according to its president, Matthew Roberts. It stopped making silverware last summer and now rents space to small industrial businesses.
Mr. Roberts said his company had agreed to cover half the cost -- about $10,000 -- of the custom stamping tools to produce the Joulies, with the understanding that the product's creators would pay the money back once their company was off the ground.
''We haven't had a lot of experience with things like this,'' he said. ''But we're looking for business. We're fighting to turn around.''
The lower barriers to entry in making electronics and other products are also attracting the attention of venture capitalists -- including some who have made their fortunes in the online realm. The start-ups they back are more likely to outsource their manufacturing overseas.
''We're starting to see a shift around consumer electronics,'' said Ben Horowitz, who co-founded the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. ''It's possible to build hardware companies that are completely outsourced -- you don't need to have the labor or the factory. There is a much lower risk to invest capital in them.''
Mr. Horowitz's firm recently placed a $49 million bet on Jawbone, a San Francisco company best known for its Bluetooth headsets. It will use the money to develop more mobile devices that make use of its voice technology.
Mr. Horowitz said that the explosion of devices like smartphones had given rise to a healthy market for products that complement them.
''When everyone has a computer in their pocket, whether a smartphone or a smart tablet, it starts to get very interesting to create products around that,'' he added.
Other hardware start-ups include Boxee, a New York company whose software lets people watch movies and videos from the Web on a television. It released a set-top box last year called the Boxee Box, which has a dedicated following of early adopters. Peel, a small company in Santa Clara, Calif., recently began selling a small, pear-shaped device that turns an iPhone into a television remote. The company released an initial run of 1,000 Peels that sold out within two weeks.
A number of factors are smoothing the path for fledgling inventors, including low-cost or free design software, cheap prototyping services and social Web sites that make drumming up interest easy and inexpensive.
The situation resembles the way that anyone with a laptop and an Internet connection can now start a Web-based company, says Eric Von Hippel, a professor of technology and innovation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management.
Specialists like Professor Von Hippel say these approaches are not likely to usurp the larger production models that dominate the electronics and technology industry. But they say that the climate is right for a microboom of mini-Edisons.
''It's so much easier to make stuff now,'' Professor Von Hippel said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about entrepreneurs who make physical products misstated the location of Peel, a start-up company that makes an iPhone accessory. It is in Santa Clara, Calif., not San Diego.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dave Petrillo, left, and David Jackson made Coffee Joulies to keep coffee temperatures just right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); WEB SITES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011



490 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Labor Board Tells Boeing New Factory Breaks Law

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
In what may be the strongest signal yet of the new pro-labor orientation of the National Labor Relations Board under President Obama, the agency filed a complaint Wednesday seeking to force Boeing to bring an airplane production line back to its unionized facilities in Washington State instead of moving the work to a nonunion plant in South Carolina.
In its complaint, the labor board said that Boeing's decision to transfer a second production line for its new 787 Dreamliner passenger plane to South Carolina was motivated by an unlawful desire to retaliate against union workers for their past strikes in Washington and to discourage future strikes. The agency's acting general counsel, Lafe Solomon, said it was illegal for companies to take actions in retaliation against workers for exercising the right to strike. 
Although manufacturers have long moved plants to nonunion states, the board noted that Boeing officials had, in internal documents and news interviews, specifically cited the strikes and potential future strikes as a reason for their 2009 decision to expand in South Carolina.
Boeing said it would ''vigorously contest'' the labor board's complaint. ''This claim is legally frivolous and represents a radical departure from both N.L.R.B. and Supreme Court precedent,'' said J. Michael Luttig, a Boeing executive vice president and its general counsel. ''Boeing has every right under both federal law and its collective bargaining agreement to build additional U.S. production capacity outside of the Puget Sound region.''
It is highly unusual for the federal government to seek to reverse a corporate decision as important as the location of plant.
But ever since a Democratic majority took control of the five-member board after Mr. Obama's election, the board has signaled that it would seek to adopt a more liberal, pro-union tilt after years of pro-employer decisions under President Bush.
Although the board has not yet issued many major decisions reversing Bush-era policies, it has proposed requiring private sector employers to post a notice about workers' right to unionize, and Mr. Solomon has begun moving more aggressively to win reinstatement of union supporters fired illegally by management during unionization drives.
In a statement Wednesday, Mr. Solomon said: ''A worker's right to strike is a fundamental right guaranteed by the National Labor Relations Act. We also recognize the rights of employers to make business decisions based on their economic interests, but they must do so within the law.''
South Carolina's two senators, both Republicans, Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint, denounced the board's move. ''This is nothing more than a political favor for the unions who are supporting President Obama's re-election campaign,'' Mr. DeMint said.
The labor board said that in 2007, Boeing announced plans to create a second production line that would make three 787 Dreamliner planes a month in the Puget Sound area to address a growing backlog of orders. That was to be in addition to a line already making seven Dreamliners a month there. In October 2009, Boeing said it would locate its second line at a new, nonunion plant in South Carolina.
The N.L.R.B. asserted that on numerous occasions Boeing officials had communicated an unlawful motive for transferring the production line, including an interview with The Seattle Times in which a Boeing executive said, ''The overriding factor was not the business climate. And it was not the wages we're paying today. It was that we cannot afford to have a work stoppage, you know, every three years.''
Mr. Solomon brought the complaint after a union representing many of Boeing's Washington workers, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, complained that Boeing had decided to move production to South Carolina largely in retaliation for a 58-day strike in 2008.
''Boeing's decision to build a 787 assembly line in South Carolina sent a message that Boeing workers would suffer financial harm for exercising their collective bargaining rights,'' said the union's vice president, Rich Michalski.
Mr. Solomon said that if he failed to settle the dispute, an administrative judge would begin hearing the case on June 14 in Seattle. Mr. Solomon said he was not seeking to close the South Carolina factory or prohibit Boeing from assembling planes there.
Boeing criticized the timing of the N.L.R.B.'s complaint, saying it came when construction of the factory in North Charleston, S.C., was nearly complete and after 1,000 employees had already been hired there.
Boeing said on Wednesday that none of the production jobs in South Carolina had come at the expense of jobs in Washington. It noted that its unionized employment in the Puget Sound area had increased by 2,000 since it announced its decision to expand in South Carolina.
The company also said it had decided to expand in South Carolina in part to protect business continuity and to reduce the damage to its finances and reputation from future work stoppages.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about a National Labor Relations Board complaint seeking to prevent Boeing from moving some airplane production to a nonunion plant in South Carolina misstated the status of a rule to require private sector employers to post a notice about workers' right to unionize. An N.L.R.B. proposal for such a rule is pending; it has not been made final.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Boeing plant in Everett, Wash. Boeing illegally cited past strikes in justifying its new plant, the N.L.R.B. said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON WURZER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STRIKES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (74%); LAWYERS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (93%); BAB (BRU) (93%); BA (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIM DEMINT (56%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



491 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Making Case for G.O.P. Budget Plan, and Fending Off Talk of Higher Office

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
CLINTON, Wis. -- Representative Paul D. Ryan was deep into an explanation of his deficit reduction plan, which sits at the heart of a contentious debate between Republicans and President Obama, when he called on a constituent raising her hand in the front row of a town meeting here.
''We need a viable Republican candidate for president,'' pleaded the woman, Nancy Champion, a retired schoolteacher. ''Will you run against him?'' 
Mr. Ryan grinned, blushed and promptly tried to change the subject, telling his audience: ''She's not related to me. She wouldn't say that if she was.'' But no, he added, he does not intend to join the Republican nominating contest and try to run against Mr. Obama.
He simply wants to debate him.
As chairman of the House Budget Committee, Mr. Ryan has emerged as one of the president's most visible Republican rivals in a budget fight that will help frame the nation's politics for the next year and beyond. In January, he delivered the official response to the State of the Union address, and this month he has become a leading face of the opposition with a 2012 spending plan that calls for deep cuts and the gradual privatization of Medicare.
So far, the dueling arguments are playing out on vastly different stages.
''He's got the bully pulpit,'' Mr. Ryan said, walking out of Clinton's Village Hall on Tuesday afternoon. ''But I think he's bigger than this. I think he's bigger than this moment, I think he's bigger than his speech last week. I think he'll come to realize that -- at least that's my hope.''
When the president delivered his rebuttal to the Republican plan last week in Washington, he invited Mr. Ryan to sit in the front row, where the congressman watched the president sharply criticize his proposal and outline the Democratic position. At the end, Mr. Ryan declared, ''What we heard today was a political broadside from our campaigner-in-chief.''
Yet as he traveled this week through his district across southern Wisconsin, which Mr. Obama narrowly won in 2008, Mr. Ryan took a cooler approach and said both sides should try to seek more ''mutual respect.''
''I'm trying not to get into some partisan bickering war with the president,'' Mr. Ryan told an audience. ''I don't see what purpose it serves to do that.''
It remains an open question whether the call for civility will last when the debate resumes in Washington. Until then, it comes as little surprise that Mr. Obama attracts more attention to his side of the debate.
The president is making his case -- the deficit must be cut, but the social safety net of Medicare must not -- in high-profile town meetings this week from Virginia to California.
And Mr. Ryan is making a counter case -- tax cuts are needed to stir economic growth, and Medicare is on an unsustainable path -- as he travels through towns like North Prairie, Delavan and Clinton, population 2,162.
If Mr. Obama delivers his argument with all the presidential polish of a Broadway show, the presentation by Mr. Ryan is closer to an act on the community theater circuit as he hits 19 town meetings over the course of a two-week Congressional recess. He draws applause when he explains that Medicare would not immediately end for older citizens and that the plan would affect only people younger than 55.
The Republican budget blueprint passed the House last week on a strict partisan vote. The party's potential presidential candidates have praised the plan and given Mr. Ryan accolades for confronting the issue. But they have stopped short of fully embracing it, particularly the Medicare provisions.
As Mr. Ryan climbed into the front seat of a Chevy Suburban to ride to his next stop, he paused for a moment when asked if the Republican position was being heard as loudly as the Democratic one. He said all Republicans shared a responsibility for explaining solutions to the nation's debt burdens, but he conceded that it was more challenging for his party to break through.
''We don't have the presidential candidates right now,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''The field hasn't materialized yet, so we're out there doing it ourselves.''
It is not that Mr. Ryan's proposal, which he calls ''The Path to Prosperity,'' has not received considerable attention. For months, he has been delivering PowerPoint presentations on the plan, explaining the urgency of cutting trillions from the budget in hopes of escaping, as he explains it, ''a tidal wave of debt.''
Mr. Ryan tugs at the BlackBerry that is attached to his belt and aims a red pointer at the numbers of the country's escalating debt. He has been holding these town meetings since he was elected to Congress a dozen years ago, but the police officers standing by the doors and the standing-room-only crowd illustrate that the implications are now far higher.
''I don't want to get in a shouting match with 10 people at once,'' he said at one point, when a man in a corner of the room tried to take an opposing view on corporate taxes.
But he received far more praise than grief.
Voters not only asked whether he would consider running for president, but also if he would try to win a Senate seat. He has told friends that he does not intend to do that, either, because being a junior senator would be a step down from being chairman of the Budget Committee.
For now, at least, he may not be debating the president -- at least in a side-by-side setting -- but there is no question that it is Mr. Ryan's plan that is at the center of the debate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul D. Ryan described his plan to reduce the budget to constituents at City Hall in Delavan, Wis., on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN LASSITER/THE JANESVILLE GAZETTE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (72%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011



492 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: As Shoppers Reduce Spending, 'Green' Loses Allure

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
When Clorox introduced Green Works, its environment-friendly cleaning line, in 2008, it secured an endorsement from the Sierra Club, a nationwide introduction at Wal-Mart, and it vowed that the products would ''move natural cleaning into the mainstream.''
Sales that year topped $100 million, and several other major consumer products companies came out with their own ''green'' cleaning supplies.
But America's eco-consciousness, it turns out, is fickle. As recession gripped the country, the consumer's love affair with green products, from recycled toilet paper to organic foods to hybrid cars, faded like a bad infatuation. While farmers' markets and Prius sales are humming along now, household product makers like Clorox just can't seem to persuade mainstream customers to buy green again. 
Sales of Green Works have fallen to about $60 million a year, and those of other similar products from major brands like Arm & Hammer, Windex, Palmolive, Hefty and Scrubbing Bubbles are sputtering. ''Every consumer says, 'I want to help the environment, I'm looking for eco-friendly products,' '' said David Donnan, a partner in the consumer products practice at the consulting firm A. T. Kearney. ''But if it's one or two pennies higher in price, they're not going to buy it. There is a discrepancy between what people say and what they do.''
For instance, a 32-oz bottle of Clorox Green Works All-Purpose cleaner is $3.29 at Stop & Shop. A 32-ounce bottle of Fantastik cleaner, by contrast, costs $2.89.
Indeed, outside a Whole Foods Market in the Chicago suburb of Evanston, June Shellene, 60, said she did not buy green products as often as she did a few years ago.
''People are so freaked out by what is happening in the world,'' she said, before loading her groceries into a Toyota Prius. Of green products, she said, ''That's something you buy and think about when things are going swimmingly.''
Sales in most consumer-products categories dropped off during the recession. But according to an analysis by Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, certain green products have fared worse.
''You see disproportionately negative impact from products like Green Works, out of the big blue-chip companies that have tried to layer a green offering on top of their conventional offering, and a relatively better performance from the niche players who remain independent,'' said Stephen Powers, an analyst at Bernstein. Using data from the Nielsen company, Bernstein looked at sales for nearly 4,300 items in 22 categories, like cleaning spray, liquid soap, bathroom cleaners and detergents. It studied monthly sales from March 2006 to March 2011, the most recent data available. (Nielsen's data includes mass market, grocery stores and drugstores but excludes Wal-Mart.)
Bernstein found that the market shares of green products generally were down from their peak -- especially those offered by the big consumer-products companies. But the market share of the independent brands, like Method and Seventh Generation, is starting to increase relative to the shares of traditional brands' green products in categories where they compete.
''In terms of the big players like Clorox, there's no doubt that they've de-emphasized the brands relative to their early aspirations, and that's reflective of what they are seeing from the consumer,'' Mr. Powers said.
Green products are more expensive because the ingredients tend to cost more than their more conventional counterparts, and transportation costs are higher too because they are sold in smaller volumes than the big brands.
Green household products took off in the 1980s, with brands like Seventh Generation and Simple Green, which have gained a loyal following. As retailers like Whole Foods expanded in the 1990s, interest in the environment increased and competitors joined the fray.
Predicting that the market would continue to increase, mainstream manufacturers like S.C. Johnson, Clorox and Church & Dwight introduced eco-friendly versions of their products around 2008.
But after an initial lift, sales largely dropped off, and the introduction of products slowed during the recession.
The number of household cleaners with green claims introduced in 2008 was 144, up from 29 in 2007. By 2009 that had dropped to 105, according to Mintel, a research firm. Green dishwashing liquid followed a similar pattern, with 14 introductions in 2007, 85 in 2008, then 58 in 2009.
Some of the manufacturers pulled back on advertising, too.
Clorox spent more than $25 million advertising Green Works in both 2008 and 2009, but just $1.4 million in 2010, according to Kantar Media, which tracks advertising spending.
Similarly, S.C. Johnson introduced Nature's Source in 2009. That year, it spent $15.4 million advertising the products, more eco-friendly versions of its brands like Windex and Scrubbing Bubbles.
In 2010, spending to advertise the line fell to zero, according to Kantar.
Sales have gone south, too. In the 12 months through March, sales of Nature's Source Scrubbing Bubbles all-purpose cleaner have dropped 71 percent, to $589,614, according to the SymphonyIRI Group, which tracks sales at mass-market United States stores, excluding Wal-Mart. Nature's Source Windex dropped 35 percent, to $1.8 million. Nature's Source Scrubbing Bubbles tub and tile cleaner dropped 61 percent, and Nature's Source toilet bowl cleaner dropped 78 percent.
And that was as prices on all of those items were reduced.
Officials at S.C. Johnson did not return calls seeking comment. At Church & Dwight, its Arm & Hammer Essentials multisurface cleaner, glass cleaner and laundry detergent are no longer being produced for the United States market, less than three years after they were introduced.
''Arm & Hammer Essentials cleaners may have been ahead of their time,'' said the chief marketing officer, Bruce Fleming, in an e-mail. Its concentrated cleaners, for instance, were sold with an empty spray bottle, and consumers had to add their own water to make the cleaning sprays.
''We haven't given up on launching innovative, earth-friendly products, we've just taken a step back to think about how and when consumers will be ready,'' he said.
Heidi Dorosin, vice president for marketing for the cleaning division of Clorox, said Green Works' sales had been battered by the recession and inconsistent pricing. The company has lowered its prices and made them more consistent, she said.
Sales held up at smaller, and more expensive, brands like Method and Seventh Generation, Mr. Powers suggested, because those customers tended to be more affluent and more wedded to environmental causes. Both companies say they had double-digit growth in 2010 after a flat year in 2009.
Back in Evanston, shoppers reflected the changing dynamics of the green marketplace. A handful said they continued to buy green products religiously while many others said the cost was prohibitive. Sarah Pooler, 55, said she did not normally buy green products but would pick them up if they were on sale.
''Bottom line, if it's green and it's a good deal, I'll buy it,'' said Ms. Pooler, outside a Jewel-Osco store.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sales of many environmentally-friendly household products have fallen sharply. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 Sarah Pooler, top, shopping in Evanston, Ill., said she did not normally buy green products unless they were on sale. June Shellene, above, said she bought fewer green items now than a few years ago. ''That's something you buy and think about when things are going swimmingly,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: Niche Loyalty: In the market for green household products, niche brands like Seventh Generation have a greater share than the green versions of conventional brands like Tide, whose share has leveled off in recent years. Green products of any brand account for less than 2 percent of the overall market. (Source: The Nielsen Company, Bernstein estimates and analysis) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CLEANERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (89%); GREEN MARKET (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (74%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (71%); ORGANIC FOODS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (55%)

COMPANY: CLOROX CO (92%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%)

TICKER: CLX (NYSE) (92%); WFM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (92%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (92%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011



493 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Why the Bankers Haven't Been Prosecuted

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your April 14 articles ''A Financial Crisis With Little Guilt'' and ''Naming Culprits in the Financial Crisis'' pinpointed just how American bankers became seduced into the world of collateralized debt obligations. 
I had been puzzled about the role of the federal regulators. From the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision, they all performed badly. Thanks to your articles we can see much more clearly how pressure came to be brought on regulators and investigators.
My hope is that the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations follows up on its report and builds on the work of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. The stage is now set to make the leaders of the banking world accountable to the American public for engaging in conduct that led to our bailout of the industry.
ALAN PARKER Olympia, Wash., April 14, 2011
The writer is a professor of government studies at Evergreen State College.
To the Editor:
If there is an original sin in the Obama administration, it is the fateful decision not to initiate an F.D.I.C.-style takeover of the American banking sector upon its collapse.
Had the administration taken that step -- taking over the insolvent banks, firing management and recapitalizing them on sound footing -- much subsequent history would have been different.
Once it lashed itself to the mast of a broken financial industry, however, putting the entire economy at the mercy of people focused on the size of their bonuses rather than the health of the economy, the administration could only hang on, silently and single-mindedly working to recapitalize the banks.
Anything that threatened to interfere with that overriding priority -- exposing bad debts, reining in the foreclosure mess and, yes, aggressively investigating illegal activity by corrupt financial executives -- had to take a back seat.
FRANCOIS FURSTENBERG Montreal, April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); WRITERS (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



494 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: A City Built on Oil Discovers How Precious Its Water Can Be

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
MIDLAND -- The oil business is booming, but there is something more precious in Midland right now: water.
Since the beginning of October, barely one-tenth of an inch of rain has fallen on the city, the oil and gas capital of West Texas. Two of the three reservoirs that Midland and other Permian Basin cities rely on for most of their water are getting close to empty. The third is below 30 percent of capacity.
This month, for the first time, Midland imposed water restrictions, forcing homeowners to water their lawns less, and schools to let their football fields grow scrubby.
If the rain does not start soon, ''it's going to get bad,'' said Stuart Purvis, the utilities manager for Midland. 
All of Texas is extremely dry, and the parched vegetation is fueling huge wildfires across the state -- prompting Gov. Rick Perry to urge prayers for rain this weekend. But the situation in the Permian Basin is particularly serious.
Without significant rain, all three reservoirs may be dry by January 2013, according to John Grant, the general manager for the Colorado River Municipal Water District, which supplies reservoir water to Midland, Odessa and several other cities. The district also pumps some groundwater from Ward County, southwest of Odessa, but expanding production would require building a pipeline that would cost $75 million to $100 million and that engineers say would take 30 months. (Mr. Grant thinks it could be done faster.)
The region's groundwater, in fact, has its own problems. Some of it contains high amounts of fluorides, arsenic or chlorides. Using more groundwater could require a desalination plant, which would cost tens of millions of dollars. Already, many Permian Basin residents fill up bottles at filtered-water kiosks on the street rather than drinking the tap water directly, because even the lake water has a high, although harmless, chloride content and tastes odd.
For an oil town used to living large during boom times, like now, the arrival of water restrictions amounts to a cultural shift. This is a semiarid place where it is so dusty that people sometimes hose off their sidewalks.
''People in Midland want a certain quality in their life,'' Mr. Purvis said. ''They don't want to live in Midland, work in the oil fields and have no greenery.''
The La Nina pattern that has contributed to the severe drought will be weak or gone by summer, said David Hennig, a Midland meteorologist with the National Weather Service. Still, Mr. Hennig said, ''The short-term weather models are not promising.''
Midland, which has 111,000 people, now limits the use of outdoor watering to three days a week and seeks to cut consumption -- especially important for summer -- by 10 percent.
Residents are adjusting. Jason Smith, a science teacher and high school football coach, has been cutting back on watering his lawn for months out of concern for the city's supplies. Now his St. Augustine grass is brown and so dry that it crunches underfoot.
''You can feel it when you walk on it,'' Mr. Smith said.
The situation is more worrisome for school athletics fields, no small consideration in this ''Friday Night Lights'' part of the world.
''We are struggling to maintain our fields,'' said James Riggen, a maintenance official with the Midland Independent School District.
Baseball fields, for example, now get watered four days a week rather than seven (the city has allowed sports fields one extra watering day). Mr. Riggen worries that blemished fields could become a safety issue for young athletes.
Nearby Odessa has also imposed watering restrictions for the first time, and violating them will result in fines starting next month. Midland, by contrast, imposes no penalties on violators. That is because Midlanders prefer requests to mandates, said Wes Perry, an oilman and Midland's mayor, who said he himself xeriscapes at home and even turns off the shower when he shampoos his hair.
''We don't respond really well to, 'O.K., the government says you've got to do this, and by God you're going to do it or we're going to string you up,' '' Mr. Perry said.
So far, the 10 percent cutback has been working, he said. But Mr. Grant of the water district said systemwide usage in March, just before individual cities introduced restrictions, was the highest for that month in five years.
For Permian Basin cities, the water crunch presents hard choices -- and perhaps especially so for Midland, which will lose about half of its reservoir rights when a contract with the water district ends in 2029.
Besides what the district supplies, Midland owns a groundwater well field called T-Bar Ranch, which contains enough water to last the city several decades. But developing it would cost about $140 million and take five years or more, Mr. Purvis said.
Other groundwater is more readily available via a lease that Midland has on land managed by the University of Texas System. But without a desalination plant, it must be diluted with lake water to reduce fluoride. Also, Mr. Purvis said, oil companies use water on the same lands, and their water-intensive drilling technique, hydraulic fracturing, could capture a significant part of the reserves. In isolated places around the region, leaks from old oil wells also affect the groundwater, water officials say.
''No one anticipated that we would be in this kind of a drought,'' Mr. Perry said, explaining why Midland had not prepared better, adding that he thought the city would have enough water for the long term.
Clayton Williams, a Midland businessman and former Republican candidate for governor, hopes to sell water from his ranch near Fort Stockton to Midland customers, 90 miles away. A hearing next month in Fort Stockton, where this has stirred controversy because some officials want to keep the water in their area, may clarify the plan's future.
Midland is negotiating to sell its sewage to a wastewater treatment plant in Odessa. Summit Power, an energy company planning to build a carbon-capture coal plant near Odessa, wants to buy it from the plant because Odessa's two sewage-treatment facilities do not produce enough to meet the coal plant's need, which averages more than four million gallons of water daily.
The Colorado River Municipal Water District plans to build a $12 million sewage-treatment plant in Big Spring, 40 miles northeast of Midland. It will send a modest amount of thrice-treated wastewater back into the regional water system -- possibly a first for Texas.
With water scarce, prices seem poised to rise over the long term. Already, a few water-intensive businesses are staying away.
One company that had wanted to establish a hydroponic farm -- where plants are grown without soil -- had considered Ector County but will now probably go elsewhere because of water, said Guy Andrews, the director of economic development for the Odessa Chamber of Commerce.
''If you don't have water,'' Mr. Andrews said, ''you can't attract industry.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A pump house at Lake J. B. Thomas, about 30 miles northeast of Big Spring. The lake, a source of Midland's drinking water, is currently 4.6 percent full. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT W. HART FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); WEATHER (89%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (89%); DROUGHT (89%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (83%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); METEOROLOGY (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); EL NINO & LA NINA (77%); LAKES (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); CHLORINE (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



495 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: A Clash Over the Airwaves

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Dropped calls. Maps that take eons to load. Echoing voices on a mobile phone. And, as iPhone users know, the dreaded ''Cannot Open Page.''
Those annoyances are likely to get worse, as airwaves that carry cellphone signals and wireless Internet connections grow ever more crowded.
The Federal Communications Commission has a solution: reclaim airwaves from ''inefficient'' users -- specifically, television broadcasters -- and auction them off to the highest bidder, sharing some of the proceeds with television stations that volunteer to give up airwaves, known in the trade as spectrum.
Broadcasters, however, are furious with the plan, setting the stage for an old media vs. new media lobbying battle with cellphone companies and the government. 
''We're in full battle mode to protect broadcasters from being forced to give up spectrum,'' said Gordon H. Smith, president of the National Association of Broadcasters and a former United States senator, addressing his members at their meeting here last week. The CTIA, the lobbying group for the wireless industry, quickly fired back, accusing broadcasters of ''desperate and inaccurate stall tactics,'' said Steve Largent, the group's president, who is a former Oklahoma congressman and member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
Broadcasters have long been under siege, their audiences slipping away to cable television, their advertisers defecting to the Internet. Although giving up spectrum would go unnoticed by most viewers, the fight to hold onto a chunk of the airwaves could be the industry's biggest battle in years.
''We are not going to volunteer,'' said Leslie Moonves, the CBS chief executive. ''Spectrum is our lifeblood.'' CBS owns and operates 14 stations in the large markets that the F.C.C. is considering for spectrum sell-offs.
Some lawmakers on Capitol Hill, in whose hallways the battle is likely to be fought over the next year, have already challenged the assertion that the auctions would be completely voluntary.
''Sounds kind of like a bank holdup to me,'' Representative John D. Dingell, a prominent Michigan Democrat, told Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C. chairman, at a hearing in February. ''You hold a gun at the teller's head and say, 'We know that you are going to voluntarily give me this money. If you don't, I'm going to shoot you.' ''
To the government, the overcrowded cellphone spectrum and wireless broadband networks have put the United States on the verge of a ''spectrum crisis'' that, unaddressed, will threaten the nation's technological leadership and economic growth. The 120 megahertz of spectrum being sought from the broadcasters would increase the amount available for cellphones and other wireless devices by about 22 percent, to 667 megahertz. On top of that, the Obama administration has said it wants to free an additional 380 megahertz for wireless Internet use.
''This growing demand is not going away,'' Mr. Genachowski told broadcasters last week. ''The only thing that can address the growing overall demand for mobile is increasing the overall supply of spectrum and the efficiency of its use.''
From the days of analog signals, television bands leave broad spaces between stations to prevent interference -- hence, their inefficiency. For cable TV or satellite viewers, airwave changes make no difference in reception. But for the 11 million households that still use an antenna to receive over-the-air signals (and thus do not subscribe to cable or satellite) there could be some interference between stations as the F.C.C. tries to press TV signals into a tighter spectrum bands.
Government officials deny this, but as the conversion to digital broadcasting showed, there can be unexpected consequences when you mess with the physics of broadcasting.
Mr. Genachowski has garnered support for the idea of reclaiming spectrum from some broadcasters. Also, a group of 112 economists who specialize in telecommunications, competition policy and auction design sent a letter to President Obama urging him to push Congress to approve incentive auctions. Three bills have been introduced in Congress supporting the idea.
But some members of Congress have opposed the plan, and the broadcasters' group is a formidable foe. The group spent nearly $14 million on lobbying last year and made another $886,000 in campaign contributions toward the 2010 elections, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, in Washington.
In Mr. Genachowski's favor are estimates that incentive auctions will generate $24 billion or more for the Treasury. He argues that the reallocation of spectrum to wireless broadband ''will generate benefits to our economy and society an order of magnitude 10 times that amount.''
But there has been little public discussion about how much of the proceeds broadcasters would receive, an omission that has left station owners wary.
There is plenty of evidence of growing demand for wireless broadband. Just one year ago, the commission projected that mobile data traffic would increase 35-fold over the next five years -- an estimate that was quickly rendered obsolete with the introduction of the iPad.
That a new technology could become so popular so quickly demonstrates the need for additional spectrum, Mr. Genachowski says, because those technologies can spur new ways to address ''major national challenges like education, health care, energy, transportation and public safety.'' The F.C.C. could, of course, simply move to take spectrum back from broadcasters when their licenses expire, but that would probably result in lengthy court battles. The F.C.C. wants broadcasting spectrum because those wavelengths are particularly hearty -- they travel well through buildings, an advantage for mobile smartphones.
But Mr. Genachowski says the F.C.C. feels that it cannot simply grab spectrum and believes that buyers would pay more for uninterrupted airwaves. So it is asking broadcasters to either turn over their spectrum for cash and go out of business, or voluntarily move to another frequency, freeing chunks of space. For technical reasons, the move would not necessarily force stations to change their familiar channel number.
''No broadcaster will be forced to offer up spectrum for auction,'' Mr. Genachowski said. But ''voluntary can't mean undermining the potential effectiveness of an auction by giving every broadcaster a new and unprecedented right to keep their exact channel location.''
Translation: The F.C.C. might forcibly move some stations if it does not get enough volunteers. It also has proposed assessing ''spectrum fees'' on broadcasters, which in most cases now receive their licenses for free.
Broadcasters say they are being shortchanged, because broadcasting's model of transmitting from one station to millions of viewers is more efficient than one-to-one wireless communication. ''We understand broadband is important, but we think broadcasting is important, too,'' said Alan Frank, president of Post-Newsweek Stations, a division of the Washington Post Company that owns six stations.
Other owners are more blunt. ''I've never heard so much nonsense in my life,'' said Charles Glover, chairman and chief executive of Telos Digital Television Networks, which owns the Fox station in Portland, Me.
''This is an actual cash grab from all of these people who have dedicated our lives to build these systems.'' By taking spectrum, Mr. Glover said, ''you are about to start a train wreck that we will not be able to come back from.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gordon H. Smith of the National Association of Broadcasters has said his group was ''in full battle mode'' to protect its members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Selling TV's airwaves would ''start a train wreck,'' said Charles Glover, chief executive of Telos Digital Television Networks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONDA CHURCHILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHARTS: Growing Demand: Mobile data traffic in North America is expected to grow for the next several years, though the growth rate will most likely slow. (Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); BROADBAND (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ROBBERY (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); BANK ROBBERY (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (57%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (58%)

PERSON: GORDON SMITH (68%); LESLIE MOONVES (55%); JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (53%); JOHN DINGELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



496 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Profit Is Up; So Are Costs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation said on Thursday that it expected more price increases for beef and other crucial ingredients, sending its shares down even as the company reported improved earnings for the first quarter. 
The company spent the day emphasizing how sales had increased, beating analysts' expectations and showcasing strong demand in Europe and Asia.
But analysts were more concerned about rising food prices, a global trend that is rippling to customers, franchisees and investors everywhere.
The company is considering raising menu prices more, but that could scare off the customers who dine there mainly because of the low cost. It raised prices 1 percent in early March.
Some franchisees are upset that McDonald's is spending on remodeling stores while they are being squeezed by the cost of food. Separately, the company faces rising interest rates on debt and an overall higher tax rate.
''Yes, we've got some headwinds,'' Jim Skinner, the chief executive, said in a call with analysts. ''But in another six months we may have some tailwinds.''
In the first quarter, sales were strongest in Europe, McDonald's largest market, and in Asia, though they also continued to increase in the United States. Europe accounts for 40 percent of McDonald's revenue, compared with 32 percent for the United States.
Net income rose 11 percent, to $1.2 billion, or $1.15 a share, compared with $1.1 billion, or $1 a share, in the period a year earlier.
Revenue increased 9 percent, to $6.1 billion.
As the world's biggest hamburger chain, McDonald's decisions about how to deal with the rising prices will be a leading indicator for the rest of the industry. Its shares fell $1.49, or 1.90 percent, to $76.91.
The company said it expected an increase of 4 to 4.5 percent in food prices in the United States and Europe for the year.
Mr. Skinner said the company did not pass along all cost increases to customers. ''They get pinched everywhere,'' he said. ''They should not suffer the same fate at McDonald's.''
Outside of food prices, McDonald's also faces increasing expenses on interest and taxes. It said it expected interest-rate expenses to increase 5 to 6 percent. It predicts its effective tax rate will be 30 to 32 percent, up from 29.3 percent last year. It did not give details on either prediction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); FRANCHISEES (76%); MENU PRICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%)

PERSON: JIM SKINNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



497 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Profit Down At Times Co., But Web Plan Shows Upside

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The New York Times Company reported a sharp drop in net income in the first quarter as the print advertising market remained stubbornly depressed for newspapers.
The company said net income fell 57.6 percent, to $5.4 million, compared with $12.8 million in the quarter a year ago.
The weakness in print advertising, coupled with an unexpected drop in revenue at About.com, led to earnings of 4 cents a share before special items were excluded, compared with 8 cents a share in the period a year ago. 
The Times did report growth in one significant area. In the first glimpse at how its digital subscription plan is faring, the company said it had signed up more than 100,000 subscribers since March 28, when it began limiting the number of articles that visitors to NYTimes.com could read free. While it said the program was still too young to be declared a success, early signs indicated that readers were responding well.
''While the advertising marketplace remains challenging, we are confident the path we have been pursuing to transform our company is the right one,'' Janet L. Robinson, chief executive of the Times Company, said in a conference call with analysts on Thursday.
Full-price digital subscriptions start at $15 and renew every four weeks, but most subscribers have paid a discounted introductory rate of 99 cents for four weeks of access. The number of subscribers who have renewed at full price has been strong so far, Ms. Robinson said.
She said The Times had also noticed an increase in subscriptions to the print edition of the paper, which she said was a result of print subscribers receiving free digital access. Traffic to NYTimes.com, which the company had estimated could drop by around 15 percent once it started charging for access, has been on par with expectations, she added.
The Times's results did not reflect any revenue from the start of the online subscription model, which began after the first quarter ended. The company said it expected to see a positive impact from digital subscriptions in the second quarter.
First-quarter revenue at the Times Company dropped 3.6 percent, to $566.5 million in the first quarter. Total advertising revenue declined 4.4 percent, but the performance by company sector varied widely. At The New York Times Media Group, which includes the namesake paper, NYTimes.com and The International Herald Tribune, the decline was 1.9 percent.
Digital advertising across the company grew 4.5 percent. As a percentage of the company's total advertising revenue, digital was 28 percent, up from 25.6 percent a year earlier.
At the New England Media Group, which includes The Boston Globe, advertising revenue fell 5.1 percent. At the Regional Media Group, which includes local newspapers from Florida to California, the decline was 9.7 percent.
At About.com, which experienced a loss in visitors after Google adjusted its algorithms to filter search results with more precision, revenue dropped 10.2 percent.
Advertising at traditional media sectors has generally bounced back since the end of the recession, but newspapers, at least the print products, have been left out of the rebound. According to the Newspaper Association of America, advertising revenue across the industry declined 6.3 percent in 2010, to $25.8 billion, despite 11 percent growth in digital advertising. According to Nielsen, the media research company, advertising on cable television was up 13.9 percent in 2010, to $27.4 billion. Network television advertising grew 5.9 percent, to $25.6 billion. National magazines advertising grew 4 percent. ''Newspapers are suffering from market share loss, the perception that the number of eyeballs are decreasing and the perception that newspaper advertising is expensive relative to other media,'' said Doug Arthur, a managing director of Evercore, an advisory and investment firm.
Operating costs at the Times Company were essentially flat at $535.4 million. Rising newsprint costs continued to weigh on the company. They rose 12.7 percent, offset partly by other factors, including a drop in circulation. Circulation revenue fell 3.7 percent, to $228 million.
The company ended the quarter with $352 million in cash and short-term investments, a lower amount than at the end of 2010 because of $54 million in pension contributions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (97%); GOOGLE INC (58%); ABOUT.COM INC (57%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (97%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (97%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: JANET L ROBINSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



498 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Fair Vote, Fragile Future

BYLINE: By DELE OLOJEDE. 
Dele Olojede is the publisher of the Nigerian newspaper NEXT and a former foreign editor of Newsday.

 BODY:
Lagos, Nigeria
LAST weekend, we trooped to the polls on street corners and under almond trees in this rough and ready city of 10 million to elect a new president. Everything seemed orderly and peaceful and oddly celebratory. This time, unusually, we even believed our votes would count.
The results that trickled in suggested that Goodluck Jonathan, who succeeded Umaru Yar'Adua upon his death in 2010, had been elected our president. And with that, we Nigerians quietly reached an encouraging but little-noticed milestone: we've held four elections at four-year intervals, and in the process passed power to three different presidents without a soldier's rifle pointed at anyone's head. 
We still have trouble counting votes accurately, but nobody's perfect. We take comfort that even in America, chads occasionally hang and the Supreme Court hands down Solomonic judgments.
While our democracy remains rickety and our ruling elites remain unable to distinguish between public funds and private purposes, we take these baby steps as a sign that we will eventually get it right.
Mr. Jonathan, with nearly 60 percent of the votes declared in his favor, appears to have persuaded at least a plurality of Nigerians, as well as most external election monitors, that his victory is legitimate.
But Mr. Jonathan does have a big problem: a lack of support in the country's north. Whether he is able to manage it will determine if Nigeria succeeds in becoming Africa's economic and political heart, as its size and resources would suggest. Indeed, the rest of Africa will probably never fulfill its potential with a dysfunctional Nigeria. Nor can the United States, which gets more than 10 percent of its oil imports from Nigeria, afford disarray here at a time of upheaval in the Middle East.
Mr. Jonathan's victory was based almost entirely on support from the largely Christian and economically dominant south. In the mainly Muslim, deeply impoverished and increasingly alienated north, voters overwhelmingly backed Mr. Jonathan's opponent, the former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari -- a taciturn and somewhat ascetic leader whose handling of the implicit power now bestowed on him is just as important as Mr. Jonathan's tact in defusing an explosive situation. Mr. Jonathan cannot govern effectively in the face of active opposition by Mr. Buhari and his talakawa -- or commoners -- movement.
On Monday, shortly after Mr. Jonathan's victory was announced by election officials, mobs of mostly young and unemployed people went on a rampage in northern Nigeria, attacking symbols of authority, local notables and traditional and religious leaders. Those perceived to be ''non-indigenes'' -- Christians and migrants from the south and other regions -- also became targets of the mobs' rage. In the upheaval, quelled for now by the army, more than 100 people have died.
Typically, such a violent reaction would not have raised many eyebrows in a country where the government has come to be seen as an obstacle to citizens' aspirations and communities competing for resources settle their differences not in the courts but with machetes or, in the oil-rich Niger Delta, through sabotage, kidnappings and bombings.
But the current fury in Nigeria's north is different and alarming: the population, long ruled by a conservative religious and political elite, has for the first time turned on its most revered institutions, burning the palaces of emirs and the homes of religious leaders seen as ''collaborators'' with the corrupt political establishment in Abuja, the capital.
Even the Sultan of Sokoto, the most powerful and respected Muslim religious figure in Nigeria, was pelted with satchels of water in the street -- a hitherto unthinkable act of public humiliation. Powerful Muslim businessmen, suspected of bribing voters and attempting to rig elections in Mr. Jonathan's favor, also had their homes set ablaze.
Over the past few days we have seen the old order go up in the smoke rising over emirs' palaces. A climate of fear has descended on the north. In many cities, now placed under curfew, residents cower indoors, terrified of what will come next. The very future of the country, whether it remains unified or the cleavage demonstrated in voting patterns becomes concrete, depends on the leadership skills displayed by Mr. Jonathan and Mr. Buhari over the coming days and weeks.
Mr. Jonathan, the first president who does not hail from one of Nigeria's three largest ethnic groups -- he's an Ijaw from the Niger Delta -- may well be the right man to navigate the tricky rapids and falls ahead. But he has a weak team and he owes many people after a campaign notable for its unrestrained spending.
Mr. Jonathan's immediate task, with behind-the-scenes help from Washington and London, is to find a way to keep Mr. Buhari in his tent. His tougher task is to rebuild the economic foundations of the country in a way that serves the impoverished masses.
Nigeria possesses the natural resources to finance its own future. What we don't know is whether President Jonathan has the combination of courage, guile and clear thinking to use those resources to reduce the savage inequalities that allow a tiny elite to control the lion's share of the country's wealth.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHANNON FRESHWATER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); RELIGION (67%); IMPORT TRADE (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (90%) NIGERIA (96%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



499 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Community Agriculture Goes Global With Coffee

BYLINE: By TARA DUGGAN. 
tara@taraduggan.com

 BODY:
Rather than buy produce at a store, members of community-supported agriculture programs, known as C.S.A.'s, pick up their vegetables in a neighbor's garage, right where a local farmer leaves them. This direct grower-to-consumer relationship has become so popular that it has inspired meat and egg C.S.A.'s among Northern California ranchers and farmers, as well as grain C.S.A.'s and even C.S.F.'s -- community- supported fisheries -- elsewhere.
Last week, the movement made a shift from the locavore to the global with CoffeeCSA.org -- the first large-scale coffee C.S.A. The farmer-owned C.S.A., created by the Pachamama Coffee Cooperative, has begun delivering coffee from its members in Mexico, Peru, Ethiopia, Guatemala and Nicaragua to the cups of consumers in this country. 
To join the group, which is based in Davis with a roasting plant in San Francisco, a customer can choose between monthly or annual memberships with a specific farm or a farmer-of-the-month subscription. The coffee costs roughly $10 a pound, plus $9.99 in shipping per delivery.
Conventionally, coffee farmers sell their green coffee beans to a broker. From there, the beans go through several hands before they reach retail shelves. In recent years, a small number of roasters in the United States -- like Four Barrel in San Francisco -- have begun buying their green coffee directly from farms.
But with its online C.S.A. model, farmers in CoffeeCSA.org receive 100 percent of the profits.
''The Internet is a unique opportunity to level the playing field,'' said Thaleon Tremain, chief executive of Pachamama and CoffeeCSA.org. ''The economic impact is significant.''
Pachamama represents 140,000 farmers and has an elected board. Its products are also available at Rainbow Grocery and other outlets in the Bay Area.
Though prices have shot up since last year, coffee on the conventional market averaged $1.64 a pound in 2010, according to the IntercontinentalExchange. Coffee farmers selling fair-trade-certified beans earned an average of $2.18 a pound, according to Fair Trade USA, based in Oakland, and coffee bought directly by specialty coffee companies often goes for more. Mr. Tremain said a farmer in his organization could receive $4.60 a pound, plus another $3.60 that goes back to the collective.
Northern California farmers who run produce or meat C.S.A.'s say that beyond the income itself, the biggest benefit of a C.S.A. is stability.
''We know that no matter what, 52 weeks a year we're going to be packing these boxes,'' said Tim Mueller of Riverdog Farm in Guinda, whose C.S.A. helps support 45 farm workers through the winter.
A recent spate of erratic weather patterns has hurt coffee production, setting off the record-high prices now seen on the global market. But customers who sign up for a long-term C.S.A. help farmers survive such changes in the market and also help pay for the next year's crop.
Since CoffeeCSA.org made its debut last week, membership is now just 15. But Erin Barnett, director of LocalHarvest.org, a nonprofit, sees a lot of potential.
''People are addicted to coffee,'' Ms. Barnett said. ''The likelihood that they're going to have loyal support is high.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COFFEE FARMING (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); COFFEE & TEA (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: AC SA (60%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (52%)

TICKER: ACG (WSE) (60%); ICE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



500 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Filings for Unemployment Benefits Fall

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Fewer people applied for unemployment benefits last week, the Labor Department said Thursday, partly reversing a sharp increase in applications the previous week.
The department said the number of people applying for unemployment benefits dropped 13,000 to a seasonally adjusted 403,000 in the week ended April 16. Applications rose 31,000 a week earlier. 
Applications near 375,000 are consistent with sustainable job growth. Applications peaked during the recession at 659,000.
The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose for a second week to 399,000, which is about 10,000 higher than it was a month ago.
The average has fallen about 7 percent since late January, but applications have plateaued in recent weeks.
The total number of people receiving unemployment benefits declined to 3.7 million. But that does not include millions of the unemployed who are getting benefits under emergency programs enacted by Congress during the recession. Including those programs, 8.3 million people received unemployment benefits during the week ending April 2, the latest data available. That was a drop of more than 200,000 from the previous week.
In a second economic report, a private research group said its measure of future economic activity rose 0.4 percent in March, the ninth consecutive monthly increase.
The group, the Conference Board, said its index of leading economic indicators began moving higher last fall as the jobless rate dropped and the stock market rallied. It had risen a revised 1 percent in February. The gains in the index suggest that the economy will strengthen as summer approaches, despite rising oil and food prices and the impact of the earthquake in Japan, the world's third-largest economy.
In March, the index received a lift from signs of growing demand in the American manufacturing sector and a rebound from a five-decade low in building permits. The permits signal future construction in the housing market.
Economists surveyed by FactSet had expected the index to grow 0.3 percent in March.
Finally, a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia found that manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia area fell more than forecast in April.
The bank's broadest index fell to 18.5, from 43.4 in March. That was the highest level since 1984. Readings above zero indicate expansion.
Increases in input prices continue to be widespread, according to a release, and a significant percentage of companies reported higher prices for their own manufactured goods.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); FOOD PRICES (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



501 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 6646 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Eugene Von Bruenchenhein: Freelance Artist -- Poet and Sculptor -- Inovator -- Arrow maker and Plant man -- Bone artifacts constructor -- Photographer and Architect -- Philosopher,' through Oct. 9. Whether photographing his wife as a sweetly chaste pinup girl; fashioning plant forms from scrounged clay or little thrones from salvaged turkey bones; or making delicate ballpoint-pen drawings or hallucinatory paintings rife with intimations of exotic undersea or sci-fi worlds, this self-taught, self-proclaimed multitasker (as made clear in the show's subtitle) never wavered in his sense of his own greatness. Mounted 27 years after his death, his first American museum survey doesn't quite do him justice and especially shortchanges the paintings, but it presents the fruits of his ceaseless labors with a clarity that makes them feel of a piece, and like a gift. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20110421 
- Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'Stargazers: Elizabeth Catlett in Conversation with 21 Contemporary Artists,' through May 29. This celebration of the artist Elizabeth Catlett, 96, includes contributions by a stellar array of younger colleagues from two generations. But Ms. Catlett herself, with her formally assured and expressively commanding art, is the life of the party just by being the quietest, wisest voice in the room. (The exhibition ''Digame: Elizabeth Catlett's Forever Love'' is on view in the Neil L. and Angelica Zander Rudenstine Gallery, W. E. B. Du Bois Institute for African and African-American Research at Harvard University, through May 26.) 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania , (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20110421
Brooklyn Museum: 'Tipi: Heritage of the Great Plains,' through May 15. Lavishly decorated war outfits and weapons, women's dresses, saddles, storage bags, baby carriers, children's toys, sporting goods and much more attest to a wonderfully soulful and inventive artistic vitality among members of the Arapaho, Blackfoot, Crow, Lakota and other tribes that once nomadically roamed the prairies from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains. The exhibition is a good introduction to the art and craft of the Plains Indians, but it unfortunately mixes in contemporary Indian art of doubtful aesthetic and historic value. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20110421
- Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum: 'Color Moves: Art and Fashion by Sonia Delaunay,' through June 19. Examining the more practical side of Delaunay's pioneering achievement, this beautiful, enlightening exhibition offers some alluring artworks, garments and accessories, especially a passel of radiant scarves. But it bets most of the house on fabric swatches -- Delaunay's textile designs -- and succeeds with a display of some 90 gouache studies for textiles and their equally vibrant commercial results: more than 120 hand-printed silks, velvets and cottons laid out in large vitrines. Patterns ranging from geometric to floral variously revisit, amplify and presage much of the history of modern painting and may even deserve a place in that history. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Smith)20110421
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum: 'Set in Style: The Jewelry of Van Cleef & Arpels,' through July 4. Van Cleef & Arpels, the century-old French jewelry firm, is the primary sponsor of this show and has supplied much of its megacarat menu: some 350 lavish pieces worn by royals, screen sirens and social swans. Although extravagance doesn't seem out of place in this former Carnegie mansion, the show often looks as if it were put together by the company's creative directors and merchandisers. The visitors lining up around the block don't seem to care, as long as they can linger over pieces like a maharani's carved-emerald necklace and large sapphire-and-diamond pendant earrings worn by Elizabeth Taylor. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20110421
- Frick Collection: 'Rembrandt and His School: Masterworks from the Frick and Lugt Collections,' through May 15. Rembrandt's jowly, battered face glows like a night light in the great 1658 self-portrait in the Frick Collection. And it glows more brightly than ever now that layers of old varnish have been cleaned away. The return of the picture after conservation is the pretext for a marvelous show of drawings by Rembrandt from a European collection, along with work by some of his virtuosic followers. 1 East 70th Street , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Cotter)20110421
- Guggenheim Museum: 'The Great Upheaval: Modern Art from the Guggenheim Collection, 1910-1918,' through June 1. Full of the art that Frank Lloyd Wright's spiral was built for, this meticulous and spacious installation of gems from the Guggenheim's admittedly patchy, idiosyncratic collection of early Modernist works is a trifle serene, considering its focus. There are masterpieces by Chagall, Malevich, Mondrian and others, as well as works of more purely historical interest that together indicate both the startling innovations of Modernism and the challenges these presented for lesser artists. But at times the upheaval in question seems to be unfolding in slow motion, at a remove, with the sound off. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20110421
- International Center of Photography: 'The Mexican Suitcase,' through May 8. In 1939, at the start of World War II, the photographer Robert Capa fled Paris. Before leaving, he packed up some 4,500 negatives and gave them to a friend to forward to him in New York. Almost all of the images in the collection were from the Spanish Civil War and taken by Capa; David Seymour, also known as Chim; and by Gerda Taro, who had died in action two years before. The negatives, which finally arrived in New York in 2007 after a mysterious journey, are the subject of a fascinating show that rewards the close looking it requires. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)20110421
- International Center of Photography: 'Wang Qingsong: When Worlds Collide,' through May 8. The photographs and videos in this small survey satirize recent changes in Chinese culture -- the proliferation of McDonald's, overcrowded cities, even a booming art scene -- with sophistication and elaborate staging. The show, Mr. Wang's biggest New York solo so far, leaves you wondering what the future holds for this gimlet-eyed artist. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Rosenberg)20110421
- Japan Society: 'Bye Bye Kitty!!! Between Heaven and Hell in Contemporary Japanese Art,' through June 12. This piquant exhibition of dark-minded work was conceived as a sharp counterweight to the cult of cuteness that has been Japan's dominant aesthetic for decades. No one could have known that the show's images of material fragility and decay would end up being seen in the light of real-life disaster. But such is the case, and the mood of anxiety that pervades the work of the 16 artists is more evident than it might have been otherwise. 333 East 47th Street , (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Cotter)20110421
Jewish Museum: 'Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World),' through July 31. Like her fellow New Yorker magazine contributors Ed Koren and Roz Chast, Ms. Kalman offers gently humorous cartoon commentary on the trials and tribulations of modern metropolitan life. Ranging in style from faux-naive eccentricity to suave realism, the more than two decades worth of drawings and paintings on paper in this career survey make for an entertaining if not deeply provocative experience. With a flea market-like installation of nondescript objects from her personal collection, however, she tries too hard to be amazingly original. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110421
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Cezanne's Card Players,' through May 8. This mini-blockbuster, organized by the Met and the Courtauld Gallery of London, finds Cezanne taking a subject from genre painting and transforming it. His ''Card Players'' separates the motif from its attendant morality, replacing the sloppy-drunk gamblers of 17th-century works with sober, stone-faced tradesmen. And it's impossible to ignore the paintings' overtures to Modernism, especially in the versions in which two players face off across a tilted table. Related paintings of smokers and other peasants come close to portraiture, but ultimately remain types. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110421
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Emperor's Private Paradise: Treasures from the Forbidden City,' through May 1. Named for one of China's great, late emperors and located within the Forbidden City's precincts, the palace known as the Qianlong Garden was locked up and moldering away until the World Monuments Fund spearheaded a rescue project a few years ago. The objects in this show -- furniture, murals, ceramics -- are both spectacular evidence of restoration work done so far and bold emblems of 18th-century imperial taste, with its marriage of extreme finesse and grandstanding luxe. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20110421
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Extravagant Display: Chinese Art in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries,' through May 1. This enthralling exhibition presents about 160 mostly desktop-scale works from the museum's Chinese collections, including ornate boxes; carvings in wood, jade, amber, ivory and other semi-precious materials; ceramic vases; and a selection of lavishly embroidered silk kimonos used in royal theatrical performances. To pore over these objects is to be repeatedly astounded by the level of design and technical achievement, and, perhaps most importantly, to appreciate the spiritually inspiring power of a lovingly made object. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110421
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Guitar Heroes: Legendary Craftsmen from Italy to New York,' through July 4. The heroes of this exceptionally interesting show are three craftsmen known for producing some of the most sought-after jazz guitars of the 20th century. Part I surveys a history of Italian luthiers from 17th-century Naples to Italian immigrants producing string instruments in New York in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Part II presents lovingly made archtop guitars and mandolins dating from 1923 to 2008 by inheritors of that tradition: John D'Angelico, James D'Aquisto and John Monteleone. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110421
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Poetry in Clay: Korean Buncheong Ceramics from Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art,' through Aug. 14. This beautiful exhibition presents bottles, vases, bowls and dishes made by 15th- and 16th-century Korean artisans. In shades of gray, from creamy and opalescent off-whites to deep, warm blacks, the anonymous craftsmen covered vessels with loosely rendered images of flora and fauna and fine-grained patterns of dots and tiny blossoms. These infectiously lively works look as if they'd been made not centuries but only decades ago. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110421
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Rooms with a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century,' through July 4. This compact, quietly splendid exhibition explores the window as luminous light source, as semi-abstract compositional element and as the focal point for a certain poignant, implicitly Romantic yearning. The images -- mostly by German, French and Scandinavian artists before 1830 -- depict both domestic settings and artists' studios and are passively subversive in their avoidance of large-scale, historic themes and formal portraiture. They show us a world on the verge of electricity, photography and industrialization, a moment of irretrievable, partly fictive calm that incites some yearning of its own. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20110421
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Katrin Sigurdardottir at the Met,' through May 30. This Icelandic New Yorker has created a pair of fanciful, quasi-architectural constructions inspired by two of the museum's French neo-Classical period rooms. Ms. Sigurdardottir's versions are all-white abstractions of their models, made with exacting craft but with simplified details. One with skewed windows and doors in a descending spiral of abutted panels could be a Modernist set for ''Alice in Wonderland.'' At 85 percent life-size, the other, an octagonal interior viewable only through one-way mirrors, has a magical, otherworldly glow. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110421
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Tibetan Arms and Armor From the Permanent Collection,' through fall. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Met's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Later Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, created this follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including five acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110421
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'The Diary: Three Centuries of Private Lives,' through May 22. You don't get to fully read the journals and diaries of Charlotte Bronte, Bob Dylan, Albert Einstein, Nathaniel Hawthorne, John Steinbeck, Tennessee Williams or any of the others on display here from the Morgan's incredible collection. But these riches are propped open in display cases for viewing, each revealing more than a tweet's worth of tantalizing self-revelation or self-concealment. The museum provides transcriptions for those who can't readily decipher 18th-century script, 19th-century microscopic penmanship and 20th-century scrawls. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Edward Rothstein)20110421
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Mannerism and Modernism: The Kasper Collection of Drawings and Photographs,' through May 1. This unusual collection assembled by the American fashion designer Herbert Kasper includes old-master drawings; modern and contemporary works on paper; and (mostly recent) photographs. A high point of the installation is a mid-20th-century mix of Dubuffet works on paper and photographs of graffitied walls by Aaron Siskind, Helen Levitt and Brassai. The interest in marked and abraded surfaces links writing, drawing and photography. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20110421
- El Museo del Barrio: 'Luis Camnitzer,' through May 29. Some stars take longer than others to come into telescopic range, as is the case with Luis Camnitzer, a pioneer of 1960s Conceptualism who is just now having his first New York museum survey. Much of what's here is based on language: cryptic propositions, lists of words, descriptive phrases -- unmoored from, or very loosely tethered to, spare-to-barely-there visual matter. The results are terse, political, funny and lyrical. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem , (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)20110421
- Museum of Arts and Design: 'The Global Africa Project,' through May 15. This ambitious if flawed survey exuberantly mixes contemporary art, design and craft by some 120 participants who are mostly African or of African descent. Setting an example of curatorial porousness that more museums should follow, it ranges from high-end luxury items (including art) to industrial design using recycled materials, from D.I.Y. urban renewal to resurgent craft traditions. The resulting friction between nonfunctional and functional, spiritual and practical, handmade and machine-made, and professional and self-taught is music to the eyes and will attune them to the important ideas and attitudes that continue to come out of Africa. This show had to be done. It should recur on a regular basis. Africa and its legacy will never be less important. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)20110421
Museum of Biblical Art: 'Passion in Venice: Crivelli to Tintoretto and Veronese,' through June 12. This fascinating exhibition presents about 60 well-chosen paintings, sculptures and objects by famous artists and unidentified artisans, all representing a major iconic image of Christendom: Jesus as the Man of Sorrows, post-Crucifixion, pre-Resurrection. Michele Giambono's 15th-century painting pictures him in anguish with bleeding palms and blood dripping from the thorns of his crown. In a late 16th-century, classicizing painting by Paolo Veronose, he slumps in the arms of an angel like a defeated athlete. Don't miss the small, wooden head of Jesus with a tiny, spring-loaded, pop-up Man of Sorrows. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20110421
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Counter Space: Design and the Modern Kitchen,' through May 2. Sometimes a kitchen is just a kitchen, but not often. This elaborate show, which draws from every department in the museum and includes some 300 design objects, examines the kitchen's complex role in everyday life (and lifestyle), product development, advertising, sexual stereotyping, at least two war efforts, contemporary art and, throughout, in the evolution of design itself. The centerpiece is a rare, nearly complete example of the cockpitlike, mass-produced Frankfurt Kitchen from 1926-27, an exemplar of the modern spirit that still looks invitingly usable. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20110421
- Museum of Modern Art: 'German Expressionism: The Graphic Impulse,' through July 11. MoMA's largest ever survey of Germany's first modern art movement is infused with an urgent, crackling energy, by turns joyful, satiric, grim and tragic. Presenting some 250 works -- most of them little-seen prints -- it celebrates one of the 20th century's most brutally effective, socially responsive unions of medium and message and shakes up the (understandable) conventional wisdom that the museum is almost terminally Francophile. While lavish, the show reveals but a fraction of the museum's 3,200 Expressionist works on paper, all of which are newly available for digital viewing at moma.org/explore/multimedia/interactives/161. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20110421
Museum of Modern Art: 'I Am Still Alive: Politics and Everyday Life in Contemporary Drawing,' through Sept. 19. This show of contemporary drawings (most acquired since 2005) is anchored by a group of telegrams sent by the Japanese artist On Kawara to friends and associates; each one bears the message ''I am still alive.'' The artists seem to be in a permanent state of wariness and suspicion, which is sometimes the result of political instability and at other times more innate. But their efforts to process matters of life and death in short bursts of creative activity feel very of the moment. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20110421
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Picasso: Guitars 1912-1914,' through June 6. Five years after painting his history-altering ''Demoiselles d'Avignon'' and inspired by his friend Georges Braque, Picasso left the figure behind and immersed himself in an alternative reality of still lifes that collapsed space and took him to the brink of abstraction. MoMA's subtly buzzing manifesto of a show -- made up of 70 thematically related paintings, drawings and collages, along with a pair of renowned guitar sculptures -- is a record of that moment, a brief revolution that generated some of the most challenging ideas in modern art. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20110421
Museum of Modern Art: 'Staging Action: Performance in Photography Since 1960,' through May 9. This show of some 50 works drawn from the photography department, nearly half of them acquired over the past five years, emphasizes performances staged for (rather than simply documented with) the camera. Some of the artists -- Lee Friedlander, Richard Prince -- are better known as photographers than as performers. The works range from 1960s Vienna to 1990s Beijing and from solipsism to exhibitionism. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20110421
Neue Galerie: 'Vienna 1900: Style and Identity,' through June 27. One of history's more fraught fin-de-siecle efflorescences of art and thought is recounted in a shifting kaleidoscope of paintings, drawings, architectural models, posters and several species of decorative arts. Among paintings by Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka and Egon Schiele, there is also a recreation of Freud's psychoanalytic couch, an eye-popping tribute to the Vienna Secession and a crowded face-off between the designer-theoreticians Josef Hoffmann and Adolf Loos. Over all, it resembles a tasting menu with enough rich and disparate flavors that the gaps and omissions can be overlooked. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.com. (Smith)20110421
- New Museum: 'Lynda Benglis,' through June 19. This startlingly excellent resurrection of the prescient Post-Minimalist renegade and her gaudy, multidexterous, often gender-bending segues among Process, Performance and Body Art is long overdue. Carefully chosen, it includes her notorious 1974 Artforum ad, but it gives pride of place to her equally flamboyant, if abstract, evocations of the body in pigmented wax, latex and polyurethane foam. Taking tips from Pollock, these works combine the dancer and the dance, unleash painting into real space and mock the less colorful efforts of her mostly masculine contemporaries. The through line: feminist intuition, formalist excess and a reckless disregard for art-world standards and practices. Bravo. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20110421
- New Museum: 'George Condo: Mental States,' through May 8. The American artist George Condo first made a splash in New York in the 1980s with a line of Surrealist-style figure paintings. They were tasty, erudite stuff, freaky but classy, Mixmaster-version old master, with a big glop of pop tossed in. He went to Europe for a successful decade, then came back to Manhattan in the 1990s without quite gaining main-stage status here. Now, finally, he's having a New York museum survey, and it's sensational. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)20110421
P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'Laurel Nakadate: Only the Lonely,' through Aug. 8. Laurel Nakadate might be on the cusp of a great new career. She is known for disconcerting, sad and sexually provocative videos that she enlisted older, worse-for-wear men to participate in, but in the past three years she has made two feature-length films. Included in this enthralling survey of her 10-year career, they focus with lingering, heart-aching care on adolescent girls, lost souls looking for love and only getting into trouble. P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20110421
- Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture: 'Soulful Stitching: Patchwork Quilts by Africans (Siddis) of India,' through June 30. The 15 brilliant contemporary quilts in this show were made by women of the Siddi ethnic group, descendants of early African migrants to South Asia, including slaves brought by Portuguese colonists in the 16th century. Strips and patches of recycled cloth -- solid-colored, patterned or shot through with glittery threads -- are the basic components. Together the results look like a spring garden in bloom. New York Public Library, 515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th Street, Hamilton Heights , nypl.org. (Cotter)20110421
Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian: 'A Song for the Horse Nation,' through July 7. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing, beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20110421
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Glenn Ligon: America,' through June 5. Sometimes a career survey doubles as a scan of social history. This is true of Glenn Ligon's retrospective, a tight but ample show that refers back to America's slave-holding past and forward to the Obama present, but focuses on the late 1980s and 1990s, a too-seldom-revisited stretch of recent art. Is shared culture -- being American -- in the end a stronger source of communality than race or sexual orientation? That's an important question that Mr. Ligon's beautifully made work asks. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20110421
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Singular Visions,' continuing. With its ''one artwork per room'' rule, ''Singular Visions'' is a refreshing departure from the typical collection sampler. The show's work includes pieces by A A Bronson, Sarah Charlesworth, Robert Grosvenor, Eva Hesse, Edward Kienholz and Georgia O'Keeffe; some rooms are more intriguing than others, but on the whole the show feels like a necessary experiment. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20110421
Galleries: Uptown
'Malevich and the American Legacy,' through April 30. This show surrounds major canvases by the Suprematist artist Kazimir Malevich with geometric works by Dan Flavin, Donald Judd, Ellsworth Kelly and many others. Sometimes there's a mismatch between the show's Maleviches and the works that constitute his legacy; in other cases, the Americans' selective interpretations look fantastic. Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, between 76th and 77th Streets , (212) 744-2313, gagosian.com. (Rosenberg)20110421
'Nubia: Ancient Kingdoms of Africa,' through June 12. ''Nubia'' takes you deep into the history of a volatile part of Africa. The show occupies just two small galleries but spans a 500-mile stretch of the Nile River Valley (now northern Sudan and southern Egypt) and more than 2,250 years (from about 3000 B.C. through 750 B.C.). Pottery, statues and funerary objects chart the dizzying power swings between Egypt and Nubia, cultures that traded goods as well as blows. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, New York University, 15 East 84th Street , (212) 992-7800, nyu.edu/isaw. (Rosenberg)20110421
- Friedrich Schroder-Sonnenstern: 'From Barefoot Prophet to Avant-Garde Artist,' through April 30. Was Friedrich Schroder-Sonnenstern crazy? Or was he crazy like a fox? Either way, the German artist long known to fans of outsider art was certainly some kind of crackpot genius, and his cartoonish, sexually charged, mystically suggestive colored pencil drawings from the 1950s are as compelling for their beautiful draftsmanship as they are for their bizarre metaphysics and gleefully fierce satire. Michael Werner, 4 East 77 Street , (212) 988-1623, michaelwerner.com. (Johnson)20110421
- 'Unpainted Paintings,' through May 27. The 37 works in this astute if star-struck exhibition explore post-Pollock paintings that favor nontraditional materials and approaches and a great deal of chance. The generally excellent selections range from a gold-leaf painting by Robert Rauschenberg and a urine-on-canvas work by Andy Warhol to a stained and acid-eaten wool rug by Anna Betbeze, a promising newcomer. Also on hand are works by Alberto Burri, Mike Kelley, Piero Manzoni and Rosemarie Trockel. The show's single-mindedness is a tad monotonous, but this is museum-quality effort that some museum should do larger, less predictably and more ecumenically. Luxembourg & Dayan, 64 East 77th Street , (212) 452-4646, luxembourgdayan.com. (Smith)20110421
Galleries: 57th Street
- Romare Bearden: 'Collage: A Centennial Celebration,' through May 21. Bearden (1911-88) spent decades striving to be a great artist, and in the early 1960s, when he took up collage in earnest, he became one. That much is confirmed by this small but superb selection of 21 works made between 1964 and 1983, seen in a context that facilitates savoring their every formal twist and narrative turn, not to mention the ingenious mixing of mediums and techniques that takes them far beyond collage. These elements, as well as the scaled-up version of collage and pieced-together, abstraction-infused figures that Bearden devised, have many echoes in contemporary art. Michael Rosenfeld Gallery, 24 West 57th Street , (212) 247-0082, michaelrosenfeldart.com. (Smith)20110421
Galleries: Chelsea
'Sammlung Ludwig: Art of the Sixties & Hans Haacke: The Chocolate Master,' through April 29. In 1969 the German businessman and art collector Peter Ludwig published a remarkable catalog of his collection of contemporary works mostly by Americans who would become blue-chip commodities. Presented here unbound, its pages in grids covering the gallery walls, it is a fascinating time capsule. The gallery has also provided commentary in the form of an artist's book by Hans Haacke that details Ludwig's anti-labor business practices and the tax advantages he enjoyed as an art collector. Specific Object, 601 West 26th Street , (212) 242-6253, specificobject.com. (Johnson)20110421
'Sascha Braunig,' through April 30. Ms. Braunig cooks up a strange brew of portraiture, Surrealism and luminescent abstraction in her auspicious, first solo exhibition. Painting on medium-small canvases with a sensuous, greasy touch, Ms. Braunig renders humanoid heads that have been weirdly transformed. In the nocturnally dark ''Eyes Peeled,'' a head tightly wrapped in fabric sprinkled with shiny flecks and with a hank of red, flyaway hair gazes back with scary, orbicular eyes like a remonstrative demon. Foxy Production, 623 West 27th Street , (212) 239-2758, foxyproduction.com. (Johnson)20110421
Galleries: Other
- Tim Dlugos and Philip Monaghan: 'At Moments Like These He Feels Farthest Away,' through April 29. In 1983 the poet Tim Dlugos, a bright presence on the Lower East Side literary scene, was commissioned by the Grey Art Gallery at New York University to create an installation using one of his poems in the gallery's windows. He in turn asked the painter Philip Monaghan to handle the visual side of the project. Mr. Dlugos died of AIDS-related complications with the installation unrealized. Now Mr. Monaghan has completed it with 54 paintings illustrating a grave surreal poem called ''Gilligan's Island,'' about the psychic life in America around 1964. Fales Library & Special Collections, Bobst Library, New York University, 70 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-2596, library.nyu.edu/fales. (Cotter)20110421
Rochelle Feinstein: 'The Estate of Rochelle F.,' through May 1. In a handwritten cri de coeur, Ms. Feinstein meditates on the dismal economy's effects on herself and other American citizens and contemplates liquidating her inventory and retiring. But the invigorating effects of her multimedia paintings combining feminist insouciance and Rauschenbergian exuberance argue eloquently against the notion of giving up the struggle. On Stellar Rays, 133 Orchard Street, Lower East Side , (212) 598-3012, onstellarrays.com. (Johnson)20110421
John Storrs: 'Machine-Age Modernist,' through July 9. The Chicago-born artist John Storrs (1885-1956) compacted utopian, machine-age dreaming into Cubist-Art Deco-style sculptures resembling pieces of architectural ornament and models of skyscrapers. There is nothing quite like his dense, carefully wrought stone and metal sculptures in early American -- or European, for that matter -- Modernism, and this finely tuned show gives a good account of his progress from the late '10s to the early '30s. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20110421
Out of Town
- African Art Museum of the SMA Fathers: 'Permanent Collection, Part I,' through May 29. If you're looking for some visual magic -- a Yoruba dance mask with a mini-zoo on top; a brocaded body wrap from Ivory Coast that seems to float on air; a 10-foot-high figure of the 1960s Malian soccer hero Salif Keita -- this small, unorthodox museum in a stained-glass-windowed hall beside a church, on the residential campus of a Roman Catholic missionary order in a leafy New Jersey suburb, is for you. 23 Bliss Avenue, Tenafly, N.J. , (201) 894-8611, smafathers.org/museum. (Cotter)20110421
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language,' through July 24. Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that is a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington , (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)20110421
- Princeton University Art Museum: 'Kurt Schwitters: Color and Collage,' through June 26. The German artist Kurt Schwitters, who died in 1948, is one of Modernism's true delights, though seen far less often than he deserves to be. This smallish show, his first substantial survey since the 1985 Museum of Modern Art retrospective, is made up primarily of wonderful collages spanning his career, from garrulous early examples made from the odds and ends of urban life -- tram tickets, stamps, receipts -- to the light-and-shadow late ones, done when he was in wartime exile in England and living, as he loved to be, surrounded by nature. From very first to very last, he's golden, and worth the trip to see. Princeton, N.J. , (609) 258-3788, artmuseum.princeton.edu. (Cotter)20110421
- Walters Art Museum: 'Treasures of Heaven: Saints, Relics, and Devotion in Medieval Europe,' through May 15. Holy relics -- the physical remains of the venerated dead -- were objects of Christian devotion from Roman times. And reliquaries, containers made to hold such remains, are the subject of the most beautifully mysterious exhibition this season, a show that is also a model of institutional sharing as the Walters, the Cleveland Museum of Art and the British Museum, all with deep medieval holdings, combine their forces brilliantly. A smaller New York show, ''Objects of Devotion and Desire: Medieval Relic to Contemporary Art'' -- at the Bertha and Karl Leubsdorf Art Gallery at Hunter College, Lexington Avenue at 68th Street -- complements ''Treasures of Heaven''; it runs through April 30. 600 North Charles Street, Baltimore , (410) 547-9000, thewalters.org. (Cotter)20110421
Last Chance
David Altmejd; closes on Saturday. Joining this season's relentless festival of bigness, David Altmejd expands his Plexiglas vitrines to the size of semi-trucks that feature semi-transparent elaborate orchestrations of cast heads, ears and hands; gold-wrapped honey bees; and loomlike arrangements of thread that suggest both rays of light and expanding musical chords. These labor-intensive special effects conjure up a cataclysmic transformation extended in time and space, or perhaps the 1970s dematerialization of the art object recast as an over-the-top store window display. The sheer ambition continues to be convincing; the sturm and drang, less so. Andrea Rosen Gallery, 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 627-6000, andrearosengallery.com. (Smith)20110421
- Emma Bee Bernstein: 'An Imagined Space'; closes on Saturday. The artist and writer Emma Bee Bernstein died in 2008 at 23, an age when most people have barely started their life's work, though she had already gone some distance with hers, judging by this show of two dozen color photographs she made between 2005 and 2007, when she was an art student at the University of Chicago. Some pictures are of friends; some are self-portraits; all share an atmosphere of tension, even discomfort, interlaced with humor. Janet Kurnatowski Gallery, 205 Norman Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn , (718) 383-9380, janetkurnatowskigallery.com. (Cotter)20110421
Stuart Brisley: 'Performance, Paintings, Sculpture, Video'; closes on Saturday. The New York solo debut of the British artist Stuart Brisley -- a multimedia wizard of the abject, absurd and often scatological who was born in 1933 and started inflicting himself on the London art scene in the mid-1960s -- is dominated by extravagantly grim black-and-white photographs documenting his furious, politically minded, often painterly performances. If you ever wondered where younger British artists like Damien Hirst and Tracey Emin got some of their ideas, take a look. Algus Greenspon, 71 Morton Street, South Village , (212) 255-7872, algusgreenspon.com. (Smith)20110421
Gary Hill: 'of surf, death, tropes & tableaux: The Psychedelic Gedankenexperiment'; closes on Saturday. The man in the lab coat giving a weirdly garbled lecture in a two-screen video installation called ''Psychedelic Gedanken Experiment'' is Mr. Hill. But he resembles Timothy Leary, and a transcript of his talk reveals that he is extolling LSD as ''the most powerful and in time the most influential work of art throughout all of history.'' Judging by this mind-bending show, it's possible he is completely serious. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com. (Johnson)20110421
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: The Big Picture'; closes on Monday. More generous retrenchment than expansive revision, this landmark show culls some 100 paintings, and related sculptures, prints, drawings and photographs, from the unrivaled permanent collection. Yes, a shortage of works by lesser-known artists makes it all a little too MoMA-as-usual, despite the presence of works unseen for decades. But there is something for everyone -- whether the eerily abstract photographs of Aaron Siskind, the immersive gallery of Mark Rothko's radiant canvases or the no-holds-barred ambition of Jackson Pollock, at full tilt in the show's astounding first gallery. The total illuminates, thrills and provides much useful grist -- both artistic and museological -- for the art-world mill. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20110421
Noguchi Museum: 'On Becoming an Artist: Isamu Noguchi and His Contemporaries, 1922-1960'; closes on Sunday. Constantin Brancusi, Marcel Duchamp, R. Buckminster Fuller, Arshile Gorky, Martha Graham, Frida Kahlo, Hans and Florence Knoll, Richard Neutra: Noguchi intersected with all of them and many other luminaries of art, architecture and design. The museum has explored some of these relationships in more focused exhibitions, but its current survey gives you the big picture of Noguchi's social network. He starts to look like a Zelig of 20th-century aesthetics -- popping up in Brancusi's Paris studio, onstage with Merce Cunningham at the Ziegfeld Theater and around the postwar high-rises of Gordon Bunshaft. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, New York , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Rosenberg)20110421

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'ON BECOMING AN ARTIST: ISAMU NOGUCHI AND HIS CONTEMPORARIES, 1922-1960'
closes on Sunday. Constantin Brancusi, Marcel Duchamp, R. Buckminster Fuller, Arshile Gorky, Martha Graham, Frida Kahlo, Richard Neutra: Noguchi, above with ''Glad Day,'' intersected with all of them and many other luminaries of art, architecture and design. The museum has explored some of these relationships in more focused exhibitions, but this survey gives you the big picture of Noguchi's social network. He starts to look like a Zelig of 20th-century aesthetics -- popping up in Brancusi's Paris studio, onstage with Merce Cunningham at the Ziegfeld Theater and around the postwar high-rises of Gordon Bunshaft. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens
 (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Karen Rosenberg) (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERENICE ABBOTT/COMMERCE GRAPHICS, COLLECTION OF THE NOGUCHI MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORY (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (51%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



502 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: New Hampshire Senate Approves Bill Curbing Unions

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
The latest battle front over limitations on unions has opened in New Hampshire, where a law is expected to be adopted that would prohibit unions from collecting mandatory fees and disallow collective bargaining agreements that require employees to join a labor union. 
The State Senate passed the bill Wednesday -- by a veto-proof vote of 16 to 8 -- that would make New Hampshire the 23rd right-to-work state, and the first in the Northeast. The House passed a similar bill in February.
''I thought it was simply a freedom-of-choice issue,'' said State Senator Raymond White, a Republican who supported the bill. ''At the end of the day it's simply a bill about does a person have to pay union dues?''
The two houses of the Legislature must work out a compromise bill that will be sent to Gov. John Lynch, a Democrat, who has said he will veto it. The bill will then return to the Legislature for an expected override vote, at which point it will become law.
''The governor has been clear he would veto this legislation,'' Colin Manning, a spokesman for Mr. Lynch, said in an e-mail. ''The governor does not believe the state should be passing laws dictating the terms of contracts between private employers and workers.''
The battle over the legislation has been especially rancorous for New Hampshire. Protests were held at the Capitol in Concord last week, unusually loud and vitriolic events in a state where only 11 percent of employees are union members.
''We see this as an attack, really, on the middle class and working people and on our ability to negotiate,'' said Mark MacKenzie, president of the New Hampshire A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''Our economy is doing better than most. There is no public outcry for right-to-work in the state.''
The vote illustrates the major political shift that occurred in November, when conservative Republicans took a majority of the House and swept into the Senate, replacing the moderate bloc.
''These are not your typical New England moderate Republicans,'' said Dante J. Scala, a professor of political science at the University of New Hampshire. ''They're more libertarian-minded Republicans that think unions should be out of the question in a contract between employee and employer.''
Like Republicans in other states, supporters in New Hampshire say the legislation is a way to improve a business climate in which there is competition with businesses in neighboring states.
''Right to work means more economic growth and more jobs here in New Hampshire, plain and simple,'' House Speaker William O'Brien and the majority leader, David Bettencourt, said in a statement.
Labor groups plan to mobilize for the veto fight with rallies this weekend and calls to legislators.
''The antiworker group has taken control of the State Capitol,'' Mr. MacKenzie said. ''This is a street fight now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); VETO (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN LYNCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



503 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Bright, Careful and Sadistic: Profiling Long Island's Mystery Serial Killer

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and AL BAKER; Tim Stelloh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
He is most likely a white male in his mid-20s to mid-40s. He is married or has a girlfriend. He is well educated and well spoken. He is financially secure, has a job and owns an expensive car or truck. He may have sought treatment at a hospital for poison ivy infection. As part of his job or interests, he has access to, or a stockpile of, burlap sacks.
And he lives or used to live on or near Ocean Parkway on the South Shore of Long Island, where the police have found as many as 10 sets of human remains.
In interviews with serial-killer experts and criminologists, including a former F.B.I. profiler, a portrait emerges of the man who investigators on Long Island believe is responsible for several of the bodies they have discovered in the brush off Ocean Parkway since December. For the moment, he is known in law enforcement jargon only as Unsub, or unknown subject. No arrests have been made, and no suspects have been identified by the Suffolk County Police Department, which is leading the investigation. 
Profiling serial murderers is far from a precise science. There are nearly three million people on Long Island, and the man who killed at least four prostitutes who advertised for clients on Craigslist is perhaps but one.
And the experts interviewed are sketching out a possible suspect based only on details of the case that have been publicly revealed, like the burlap sacks that the four women's bodies were found in and the series of taunting phone calls that the killer is believed to have made to one victim's relatives.
''This is someone who can walk into a room and seem like your average Joe,'' said Scott Bonn, an assistant professor of sociology at Drew University in Madison, N.J., and a serial-killer researcher. ''He has to be persuasive enough and rational enough that he is able to convince these women to meet him on these terms. He has demonstrated social skills. He may even be charming.''
One of the most important clues is where the 10 sets of remains were located: a 10-mile stretch of remote, poison-ivy-covered dunes just off Ocean Parkway on Jones Beach Island.
In selecting one large dumping ground, the killer has distinguished himself from Long Island's last two convicted serial killers, Joel Rifkin and Robert Shulman, both of whom scattered the bodies of their victims throughout the region and the state. The killer's attraction to a single out-of-the-way area suggests to several experts that he has an intimate knowledge of Jones Beach Island in general and Ocean Parkway in particular.
''He did not stumble upon that location,'' said the former profiler, Jim Clemente, who retired from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 2009 as a senior supervisory special agent in the agency's behavioral analysis unit in Quantico, Va. ''He has some familiarity with it.''
Only 4 of the 10 sets of remains have been identified. Those four victims, who were found in December, were all in their 20s and had worked as prostitutes. Each one was reported missing in the summertime -- on July 9, 2007; July 12, 2009; June 6, 2010; and Sept. 2, 2010. Investigators have said they believe that the four women were killed shortly after they were reported missing.
The summertime disappearances suggest several characteristics. ''There may be a seasonal nature to his connection to the area, or to his fantasy and ritual,'' Mr. Clemente said. ''It may be the time his wife or kids or parents are away for the summer. There are many possibilities.''
The burlap sacks provide another clue. He could be using them either because they are part of his killing ritual or because they are the easiest cover he can find. Burlap, however, is no longer common, and it might be easier to trace than a plastic bag. ''To me, it takes away from his forensic sophistication and criminal sophistication and adds to the possibility that he is more interested in this ritual aspect,'' Mr. Clemente said.
Investigators believe that the deaths of the four prostitutes were the work of a serial killer, but they have not publicly declared a connection between the first four bodies from December and the unidentified ones that were found more recently. The remains of a child may be among those discovered recently, raising the possibility that the dunes may have been used over the years by more than one killer.
The Ocean Parkway serial killer is the third known to have preyed on prostitutes on Long Island in 22 years. Mr. Rifkin, a 34-year-old unemployed gardener from East Meadow, confessed to killing 17 women between 1989 and 1993, when he was arrested. Mr. Shulman, a 42-year-old postal worker from Hicksville, was convicted of killing and dismembering five prostitutes after he was arrested in 1996.
Mr. Shulman died of natural causes in 2006 while serving life without parole. Mr. Rifkin, now 52, is an inmate at the Clinton state prison in Dannemora, N.Y., near the Canadian border. He is serving a 203-year sentence and is officially eligible for parole on Feb. 26, 2197.
Besides singling out prostitutes, Mr. Rifkin, Mr. Shulman and the current killer have traits in common. All three are classified by serial-killer experts as organized killers.
Serial killers are often broadly defined as either organized or disorganized. The model of the disorganized killer is Jack the Ripper, the name given to the unidentified serial killer of prostitutes in London in the 1880s.
''A disorganized killer will be much more impulsive and haphazard,'' said James Alan Fox, a criminology professor at Northeastern University who has studied serial killers for 30 years. ''The disorganized killer is easy to catch. A lot of them don't get enough victims to be defined as a serial killer. It takes a certain degree of care and carefulness to assemble dozens.''
Organized killers use such care. They often lead seemingly stable lives, and are methodical, intelligent and educated (Mr. Rifkin attended the State University of New York at Farmingdale, and Mr. Shulman had been a student at Hofstra University). And, like the Ocean Parkway killer, they often have a knowledge of police work and forensic techniques.
Some investigators have said the killer might be an active or former law enforcement officer, because his phone calls to the relative did not last long enough to pinpoint his location and were made from Times Square and other crowded sites, which would make it more difficult for the authorities to pick him out using surveillance cameras.
Long Island's three serial killers might also share similar motives. Fred Klein, the former Nassau County assistant district attorney who prosecuted Mr. Rifkin, said that Mr. Rifkin was driven to kill not out of anger or revenge, but out of pleasure. Before he began killing prostitutes, Mr. Rifkin had been obsessed with Alfred Hitchcock's 1972 film ''Frenzy,'' about a serial killer in London, and he told officials he used to masturbate to the scenes in which women were strangled.
''It was a psychosexual sadism,'' said Mr. Klein, now an assistant professor at Hofstra Law School. ''Most murders, there's an additional motive to it. You want to eliminate witnesses, or there's a fight, or you want to eliminate the person for some reason, such as a husband kills a wife or vice versa. Rifkin was killing people for the pure purpose of killing them. He would actually get sexual pleasure out of the murder.''
Serial-killer experts say they believe that the current killer is fueled by similar impulses, as shown by his desire to call the teenage sister of one of his victims -- using the victim's cellphone -- and taunt her.
''That gives me an idea that he is a sadist,'' said Mr. Clemente, the former profiler. ''That would be reflected in his relationship and jobs. He is the one who laughs when a cat gets run over or a kid falls off his bike. He likes the suffering of others, and he really likes it when he can cause it or witness it.''
Mr. Rifkin has offered his own opinions lately about who he thinks the killer is, in prison interviews with reporters. He told Newsday last week that he believed that the killer could be a local resident who works in a job in which no one would be suspicious if he carried burlap bags.
''My guess,'' Mr. Rifkin told the newspaper, ''is it would be someone like a landscaper, contractor or a fisherman.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dozens of officers searched for more human remains this month on the South Shore, and for clues to help identify a serial killer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Joel Rifkin in 1996. He admitted to killing 17 women. (POOL PHOTO BY NEIL SCHNEIDER)
Robert Shulman in 1996. He was convicted of five murders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE COTLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Jim Clemente, a retired F.B.I. criminal profiler, said of the Long Island mystery killer, ''He likes the suffering of others.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



504 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Multigenerational Housing Is a Real Estate Growth Niche

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Taylor Morrison, a housing developer based in Arizona, was set to break ground on a 304-unit condominium development in Sunnyvale, near San Jose, when the bottom fell out of the housing market in 2007.
The company went back to the drawing board, and last month it gained approval for a drastically different plan: a town house project aimed at extended families, where children, parents and grandparents can all live comfortably under one roof.
Such multigenerational housing is specifically aimed at the booming immigrant population in the Bay Area, and is emerging as one of the few growth niches in a moribund housing market.
''If you're selling in certain areas of the Bay Area, you have to be more extended-family-oriented,'' said Cheryl O'Conner, government affairs consultant to the Building Industry Association of the Bay Area. 
Asian buyers, in particular, ''come with the whole family,'' Ms. O'Conner said. ''They come with their parents and grandparents, uncles, aunts and cousins.''
Even when several generations are not living together permanently, more and more families are looking for housing alternatives that can readily accommodate extended visits from overseas relatives.
Census figures released last month show the Bay Area's Hispanic and Asian populations each increased by more than 350,000 over the past decade, while the region's non-Hispanic white population declined. Those groups are about twice as likely as whites to live in multigenerational households, according to a 2010 study by the Pew Hispanic Center.
In 2008, an estimated 49 million Americans lived in a house that included at least two adult generations or a grandparent and at least one other generation, the study showed. In 1980, that figure was just 28 million.
''Immigrants are a source of growing demand, and their household composition is different in fundamental ways from the domestic-born,'' said Kermit Baker, a senior fellow at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard and the chief economist of the American Institute of Architects.
In Taylor Morrison's development in Sunnyvale, called Duane Court, most units will be approximately 2,000 square feet, featuring a bedroom and a bathroom on the ground floor so older-generation residents do not have to use the stairs; a kitchen, a living room and a dining room on the middle floor; and three additional bedrooms and two bathrooms on the top floor for the traditional nuclear family unit.
Local officials are enthusiastic about the trend. Melinda Hamilton, mayor of Sunnyvale, said the new project ''has more community support because it's more in tune with the neighborhood, and it provides what we need: housing for families.''
Such designs are particularly popular in the South Bay, observers say, because of the large influx of engineers from China and India who want large homes to accommodate their extended families and who can afford an expensive new townhome.
But multigeneration housing is gaining popularity in less wealthy neighborhoods, too. In East Oakland, the developer Korin Crawford finished a nine-unit townhome development with a design similar to Duane Court's in 2009; he was unable to sell the units in the middle of the housing bust but has rented them out and is pushing ahead with similar projects.
On Third Street in the Bayview district of San Francisco, the affordable-housing developer Bridge Housing completed its 124-unit Armstrong Townhome project in 2009. Seventy units have sold, and Bridge Housing's project director, Kevin Griffith, said he believed the rest would sell by early next year.
Mr. Griffith said his company's architects were also mindful of multigenerational needs, designing some units with a bedroom and a full bath on the main level so the elderly could avoid the stairs.
Design preferences can vary among ethnicities, social classes and income levels. Amar Gupta, managing editor of the Indian-interest magazine Siliconeer, is not convinced that South Asian immigrants will go for town houses like those at Duane Court, for example, because they prefer large, detached single-family homes built across either one or two floors.
''If you want to have the older generation, you can't have stairs,'' said Mr. Gupta, whose home includes seven residents across four generations, from his 78-year-old grandmother, Shanti, to his two sons, 11-year-old Vanish and 5-year-old Janam.
Mr. Gupta's family rents a 3,500-square-foot home off Mission Boulevard in Fremont. Most of the bedrooms are on the second floor, but his grandmother's is on the ground floor with the kitchen, the living room and the den.
''It's slightly different than the American system of living,'' he said, ''but that's how we do it in India: we put culture and family first.''
Mr. Gupta's father, Ashok, a real estate agent who specializes in South Asian families, said the three-story townhomes with a bedroom and a bathroom on the ground floor were ''perfect for an engineer in Silicon Valley whose mother is going to come for a few months a year.''
''The rest of the year, they can use it for an office,'' he said.
Sandra Vivanco, a San Francisco architect, also sees a growth market for properties that allow for comfortable extended visits by family members. Ms. Vivanco designed a house in Menlo Park where a couple -- the husband is Sri Lankan and the wife Finnish -- live with two young children. When the Finnish grandmother returns to Europe, the Sri Lankan grandfather arrives from Asia. Sometimes, both come at the same time.
Because the composition of the household keeps changing, Ms. Vivanco said, the home's design had to be flexible.
''There is no master suite in the house, just four equally sized large bedrooms with bathrooms that are easy to share,'' she said.
''There are two equally sized bathrooms next to each other,'' Ms. Vivanco said, ''one with a shower and a toilet and the other with a bathtub and a toilet. Outside in the hallway, there is a double sink, so four people can use the bathroom at the same time.''
She added, ''Our normally held ideas of privacy are being questioned and reinterpreted.''
Ms. Vivanco also designed a two-story house for an elderly Salvadoran couple and their three grown children in the city's Excelsior district.
''We don't see it as a bad thing that we're all grown up and still living with our parents,'' said Lizzette Henriquez, 47, one of the three adult siblings. ''We're helping each other.''
''It's part of our culture,'' said Ms. Henriquez's brother, Juan Carlos, 43, who moved in last August after living for a decade in an apartment near Golden Gate Park.
''There's no negative,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Henriquezes, above, at their new home in San Francisco. The family includes three grown children. The Gupta family, left, at their home in Fremont, spans four generations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MAYORS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); TRENDS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CENSUS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



505 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Our Obsolete Approach to Medicaid

BYLINE: By SCOTT WALKER. 
Scott Walker, a Republican, is the governor of Wisconsin.

 BODY:
Madison, Wis.
WHAT does Medicaid have in common with ''I Dream of Jeannie,'' ''Lost in Space'' and ''Get Smart''? They all made their debut in 1965. Although we enjoy watching reruns of these classics, the television networks have updated their programming. The federal government should do the same.
In recent years Washington has taken an obsolete program, which covers health care for low-income Americans, and made it worse through restrictive rule-making that defies common sense. It is biased toward caring for people in nursing homes rather than in their own homes and neighborhoods. It lacks the flexibility to help patients who require some nursing services, but not round-the-clock care. 
If we were designing a health insurance program for low-income families today, we would use a much different model to drive efficiency and innovation -- one that recognizes that the delivery of health care is fundamentally personal and local.
Time and again states like Wisconsin have blazed the path in Medicaid -- from giving individuals greater control over their care to expanding the use of electronic medical records -- while the federal bureaucracy has lagged behind. Just now Washington is discovering accountable care organizations (networks of doctors and hospitals that share responsibility for caring for patients and receive incentives to keep costs down) and ''medical homes'' (a model in which one primary-care doctor takes the main responsibility for a patient).
Wisconsin has created a database of claims and payments that gathers information from all insurers, including private companies and the state Medicaid program. It allows people to compare cost and quality across providers. We have asked Washington to add its data to our database, but it has not done so.
We need to modernize not only Medicaid's benefits and service delivery, but also its financing. In good times, the open-ended federal Medicaid match encourages states to overspend. Amazingly, the program is now viewed by some states as a form of economic development because each state can at least double its money for each dollar spent. That matching feature penalizes efficiency and thrift, since a reduction of $1 in state spending also means forfeiting at least one federal dollar, often more.
Medicaid in its present, outdated form is unsustainable. Without serious reform, it is unthinkable to add 16 million more people, as President Obama's health care legislation would do. The White House budget would temporarily pay 100 percent of the costs of new Medicaid enrollees. As a result, many states would expand enrollment, deferring the hard decisions until the federal money goes away.
An alternative approach is to offer block grants for Medicaid, as my fellow Wisconsinite, Representative Paul D. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, has urged. Why now support a block grant for Medicaid when similar proposals have failed?
First, we know from more than a decade of experience with welfare reform that switching from open-ended entitlements to block grants pushes both individuals and states to behave more responsibly.
Second, more than a decade of experience with the State Children's Health Insurance Program, which has vastly expanded coverage for children while being more flexible than Medicaid, shows the success of the block-grant model.
Third, there are already caps within Medicaid through so-called Section 1115 demonstration projects. It is through such projects, known as waivers, that innovative programs like BadgerCare in Wisconsin and MassHealth in Massachusetts (which President Obama says was his model for reform) were built. States from Arizona to Washington have also had waivers that capped federal liability for Medicaid. Their success shows that we can move beyond demonstration projects and let the federal government relinquish control over Medicaid.
Finally, some state officials oppose block grants because capped financing would bring the fiscal discipline they try desperately to avoid. But this discipline is precisely what is necessary to slow the rate of growth in health care costs. It is unlikely that doctors and hospitals will support authentic cost-saving measures as long as they believe there is more money coming from somewhere.
States are not merely ''laboratories of democracy,'' but also sovereign governments under our system of federalism. Unfortunately, the encroachment of the federal government in Medicaid threatens to reduce states to mere agents.
Block grants would bring a truce to the tug-of-wars between Washington and the states. This is the best option for Medicaid, facing a midlife crisis, to survive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); NURSES & NURSING (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); MEDICAL RECORDS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); FAMILY (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (51%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



506 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: City Issues Rule to Ban Dirtiest Oils At Buildings

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Buildings in New York City will be required to phase out using the most-polluting grades of heating oil under a new regulation that is expected to improve air quality significantly and make black smoke billowing from smokestacks a thing of the past.
The new rule, announced on Thursday by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg as part of an update to his environmental agenda, known as PlaNYC, affects about 10,000 buildings that burn the dirtiest types of heating oil: No. 6, the cheapest oil pumped into aging boilers; and No. 4, another heavy oil that is only slightly less noxious. 
Only 1 percent of buildings in the city burn the dirty oil, officials said, but are responsible for more than 85 percent of all the soot pollution from buildings.
Soot pollution can irritate the lungs, worsen conditions like asthma and increase the risks of heart attacks and premature death.
In a report released on Thursday, the city's health department said air pollution from the fine particles emitted by the dirty-oil buildings, as well as other sources in the city, caused more than 3,000 deaths, 2,000 hospital admissions for lung and heart conditions and about 6,000 emergency room visits for asthma annually.
Aside from the city's efforts to curb smoking, Mr. Bloomberg said the heating oil regulations were ''the single biggest step that we've taken to save lives.''
Under the new rule, by 2015, existing boilers must switch from No. 6 oil to a low-sulfur version of the No. 4 heating oil or to an equivalent cleaner fuel. Any newly installed boiler would have to burn an even less polluting grade -- low-sulfur No. 2 oil -- or natural gas or an equivalent low-emission fuel, which would in effect eventually phase out No. 4 oil.
Boilers not replaced by 2030 would need to be modified to meet the new regulations.
Building owners said the biggest challenge in making the conversion was cost, particularly for smaller buildings in these tough economic times.
In a statement, the Real Estate Board of New York said it would work with the Bloomberg administration ''to identify and implement ways to achieve those goals in an expeditious and sensible manner.''
The organization has previously noted that compliance costs will be borne by tenants in the form of higher rents or maintenance charges.
It will cost about $10,000 or less to convert boilers to use No. 4 oil -- and much more to switch to No. 2 oil or natural gas. City officials said buildings that demonstrated a severe financial hardship could seek an extended schedule for complying.
More than 200 public schools are among the buildings that must make the switch.
The phase-out, when fully in effect, will reduce the amount of fine particles emitted by heating buildings by at least 63 percent and lower the overall concentration of fine particles in the city's air from all sources by 5 percent.
''The health benefits will be dramatic,'' said Andy Darrell, the New York regional director for the Environmental Defense Fund, a national environmental group that will work with the city to educate building owners about the conversions.
In an address on the eve of Earth Day, Mr. Bloomberg presented the first update to PlaNYC, which calls for such revisions every four years.
Speaking at Harlem Stage, a performing arts site inside Harlem's Gatehouse, to an audience of city officials, environmental groups and others who helped update the plan, the mayor also announced the start of a new nonprofit corporation, the New York City Energy Efficiency Corporation, that will use $37 million in federal money to make loans to building owners for energy-efficiency upgrades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); PARTICULATE MATTER (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FIRES (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); SMOKING (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ASTHMA (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (72%); SMOKING CESSATION (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (71%); HEART DISEASE (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



507 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: NEW POLL SHOWS DARKENING MOOD ACROSS AMERICA

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Marjorie Connelly, Marina Stefan and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Americans are more pessimistic about the nation's economic outlook and overall direction than they have been at any time since President Obama's first two months in office, when the country was still officially ensnared in the Great Recession, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
Amid rising gas prices, stubborn unemployment and a cacophonous debate in Washington over the federal government's ability to meet its future obligations, the poll presents stark evidence that the slow, if unsteady, gains in public confidence earlier this year that a recovery was under way are now all but gone.
Capturing what appears to be an abrupt change in attitude, the survey shows that the number of Americans who think the economy is getting worse has jumped 13 percentage points in just one month. Though there have been encouraging signs of renewed growth since last fall, many economists are having second thoughts, warning that the pace of expansion might not be fast enough to create significant numbers of new jobs. 
The dour public mood is dragging down ratings for both parties in Congress and for President Obama, the poll found.
After the first 100 days of divided government, and a new Republican leadership controlling the House of Representatives, 75 percent of respondents disapproved of the way Congress is handling its job.
Disapproval of Mr. Obama's handling of the economy has never been broader -- at 57 percent of Americans -- a warning sign as he begins to set his sights on re-election in 2012. And a similar percentage disapprove of how Mr. Obama is handling the federal budget deficit, though more disapprove of the way Republicans in Congress are.
Still, for all the talk from Congressional Republicans and Mr. Obama of cutting the deficit as a way to improve the economy, only 29 percent of respondents said it would create more jobs. Twenty-seven percent said it would have no effect on the employment outlook, and 29 percent said it would cost jobs.
When it comes to cutting the deficit and the costs of the nation's costliest entitlement programs, the poll found conflicting and sometimes contradictory views, with hints of encouragement and peril for both parties.
Mr. Obama has considerable support for his proposal to end tax cuts for those households earning $250,000 a year and more: 72 percent of respondents approved of doing so as a way to address the deficit.
And, in what he can take as a positive sign for his argument the nation has a duty to protect its most vulnerable citizens, about three-quarters of Americans polled think the federal government has a responsibility to provide health care for the elderly, and 56 percent believe it has a similar duty to the poor.
''Keep people's taxes and give them medical benefits,'' Richard Sterling, an independent voter of Naugatuck, Conn., said in a follow-up interview.
In what Republicans can take as a positive sign as they seek a more limited government, 55 percent of poll respondents said they would rather have fewer services from a smaller government than more services from a bigger one, as opposed to 33 percent who said the opposite, a continuation of a trend in Times/CBS polls.
And slightly more Americans approve than disapprove of a proposal by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin to change Medicare from a program that pays doctors and hospitals directly for treating older people to one in which the government helps such patients pay for private plans, though that support derived more from Republicans and independents. A recent Washington Post/ABC News poll that found 65 percent opposed Mr. Ryan's plan, suggesting results can vary based on how the question is asked.
Twice as many respondents said they would prefer cuts in spending on federal programs that benefit people like them as said they would favor a rise in taxes to pay for such programs.
Yet more than 6 in 10 of those surveyed said they believed Medicare was worth the costs. And when asked specifically about Medicare, respondents said they would rather see higher taxes than see a reduction in its available medical services if they had to choose between the two.
Given the choice of cutting military, Social Security or Medicare spending as a way to reduce the overall budget, 45 percent chose military cuts, compared with those to Social Security (17 percent) or Medicare (21 percent.)
The opposition by Tea Party supporters to raising the level of debt the nation can legally carry was shared by nearly two-thirds of poll respondents, including nearly half of Democrats; administration officials say blocking the government from raising that limit could force it to default on its debt payments.
For the most part, Americans split sharply along party lines when it comes to whom they trust most on the deficit, Medicare and Social Security.
But with 70 percent of poll respondents saying that the country was heading in the wrong direction, the public was not exhibiting warm feelings toward officeholders of either party.
Most Americans think neither Mr. Obama nor the Congressional Republicans share their priorities for the country. Mr. Obama's job approval remains below a majority, with 46 percent saying they approve of his performance in office, while 45 percent do not. And support for his handling of the military campaign in Libya has fallen since last month: 39 percent approve and 45 percent disapprove. In a CBS poll in March, 50 percent approved and 29 percent disapproved.
Republicans have their own challenges. More than half of poll respondents, 56 percent, said they did not have a favorable view of the party, as opposed to 37 percent who said they did. (The Democratic Party fared somewhat better: 49 percent did not have favorable views of it and 44 percent did.)
As the House speaker, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, becomes the face of his party in Congress, more disapprove of his job performance (41 percent) than approve of it (32 percent); 27 percent said they did not have an opinion of him.
The displeasure with officeholders of both parties is reminiscent of the mood that prevailed in November, when anti-incumbent sentiment swept Democrats out of power in the House and diminished their edge in the Senate.
Frustration with the pace of economic growth has grown since, with 28 percent of respondents in a New York Times/CBS poll in late October saying the economy was getting worse, and 39 percent saying so in the latest poll. ''They're saying it will get better, but it's not,'' Frank Tufenkdjian, a Republican of Bayville, N.Y., said in a follow-up interview. ''I know so many people who are unemployed and can't find a job.''
The nationwide telephone survey was conducted Friday through Wednesday with 1,224 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (62%); ELDER HEALTH (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); AGING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



508 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Lack of Passion for '12 Republican Field

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With less than a year to go before the Iowa caucuses, Republican voters have yet to form strong opinions about most of their potential candidates for president in 2012, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
Only those possible contenders who regularly appear on television -- or have run before -- are well known enough to elicit significant views from their fellow Republicans. And of that group, only former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas and former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska are viewed favorably by more than half of the Republican electorate. 
The poll would seem to reflect the late start to the Republican primary season, with many of the major likely candidates seeking to hoard their money and avoid any missteps that they might have to live with later, when voters go to polls or caucus rooms.
The survey at the very least provides a reality check for a race that has received frenetic coverage at times on cable news and the Internet even though nearly 60 percent of Republicans cannot point to a single candidate about whom they are enthusiastic, according to the poll.
A host of potential Republican candidates have a lot of work ahead -- and money to spend -- to make themselves better known to their party faithful and other Americans.
For instance, former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota may be drawing media attention as a Republican presidential contender, but nearly 80 percent of Republican voters to the Times/CBS poll said they did not know enough about him to say whether they viewed him favorably or unfavorably (20 percent say they view him positively and 3 percent say they view him negatively).
Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi may be well known along K Street -- where he was once a lobbyist -- and among Washington-based reporters who covered him when he was the Republican Party chairman. But 85 percent of Republican voters said they did not know enough about him to offer an opinion.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who is stepping down as ambassador to China, might take heart that five times as many party members view him favorably as view him unfavorably. That is fact, literally: 5 percent of Republican poll respondents said they viewed him favorably, 1 percent said they viewed him unfavorably, and more than 90 percent said they had nothing to say either way because they had not yet formed an opinion about him.
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania drew similar responses.
Ms. Palin, the one-time vice-presidential candidate -- who is a regular on the Fox News Channel, which the survey said was the television news network most watched by Republicans -- is the best known of the possible candidates, according to the poll. She is viewed the least favorably by all registered voters: Twice as many voters over all said they had an unfavorable view of her (55 percent) as said they had a favorable view (26 percent).
But her standing among Republican voters was the polar opposite: About half of Republicans said they viewed her favorably, while 26 percent said they viewed her unfavorably.
Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who ran unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination in 2008, was viewed slightly more positively than negatively among all voters, with 28 percent expressing favorable views and 24 percent unfavorable views. Among Republican voters, 42 percent said they viewed him favorably and 15 percent said they viewed him unfavorably.
The poll was taken nationally April 15-20 with interviews of 1,116 registered voters, including 524 registered Republicans. It had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for all voters, and plus or minus four percentage points for Republican voters.
The real estate mogul Donald J. Trump has been getting considerable attention as a possible contender, but the poll pointed to potential hurdles should he pursue a formal candidacy. Just about as many Republicans viewed him favorably as viewed him unfavorably -- 35 percent favorably and 32 percent unfavorably -- and nearly 60 percent of Republicans interviewed said they did not believe he was a serious candidate. (Far more of all voters view him unfavorably, 46 percent, than view him favorably, 25 percent.)
If one Republican stood out in the Times/CBS News poll, it was Mr. Huckabee, who has his own show on Fox News. Roughly a third of all voters viewed him favorably, as opposed to a quarter who viewed him unfavorably. And among Republican voters, more than half viewed him positively as opposed to 11 percent who had negative views.
''Watching Huckabee on TV gives me a good idea of how he views things,'' Floyd Petersen, a disabled contractor in Thompson Falls, Mont., said in a follow-up interview. ''TV has made me know him better.''
When Republicans were asked whom they were most enthusiastic about, Mr. Huckabee was the second-most-mentioned candidate, after Mr. Romney. But the percentages were small: 8 percent named Mr. Huckabee, 9 percent named Mr. Romney and 57 percent could not name anyone.
How well a candidate is known at this stage of a campaign is not necessarily a reflection of where they will stand when the race engages in earnest. For instance, at this point four years ago, 77 percent of Republicans surveyed by The New York Times and CBS News said they did not know enough about Mr. Romney to form an opinion of him. Yet he was one of the better-known candidates by the time he dropped out in February 2008.
And the best-known and best-liked candidate at the time of that poll -- taken in March 2007 -- was former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, whose campaign ultimately fizzled.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas was viewed favorably by roughly a third of all voters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGELIO V. SOLIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Among Republican voters in the poll, 42 percent said they viewed former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts favorably. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
Sarah Palin, a regular on Fox News, is the best known of the possible Republican candidates, according to the poll. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN FREDRICKSON/REUTERS)
 Nearly 60 percent of Republicans interviewed said they did not believe Donald J. Trump was a serious presidential candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY CORONADO/PALM BEACH POST, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: How Americans feel about the economy, budget deficit and health care: Direction of the country and the economy 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (73%); DONALD TRUMP (59%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



509 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Kurds Renew Their Movement For Rights and Respect in Turkey

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey -- As more than 5,000 Kurds bent their heads to the ground in prayer on the main square of this provincial capital in Turkey's volatile southeast, the voice of the imam rang out.
''No one can deny us the right that God gave us to speak our own language, in our schools or in our mosques,'' the religious leader said in Kurdish, the language of Turkey's 12 million to 15 million Kurds that the Turkish state still forbids the official use of in schools, mosques and government offices. ''To do this is against God and the Koran -- we are united with our Arab brothers and we want our rights.''
Against the backdrop of the Arab Spring, Turkey's ever restive Kurds have begun a fresh push to achieve what they have been fighting for since the founding of the Turkish republic in 1923: true freedom of representation and the right to be educated in their mother tongue.
Whereas in the past, the main force behind this impetus has been a bloody guerrilla war, it is now a campaign of civil disobedience that Kurdish leaders here say is inspired not just by the events in neighboring Syria as well as Egypt, Yemen and Libya, but by the fight for civil rights in the United States in the 1960s. 
''Our struggle is not just for our rights, but to bring democracy to Turkey,'' Mehmet Ali Aydin, the chairman of the Diyarbakir branch of the Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, known as the B.D.P. for the initials of its Kurdish name, said in an interview. ''Forty years ago blacks and whites in America could not eat together. Now the president of your country is black -- we are trying to follow in the same steps.''
As the religiously conservative government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan prepares for nationwide elections in June, this newly assertive drive led by the B.D.P. is seen as a democratic litmus test for Mr. Erdogan.
Arguably Turkey's most powerful and regionally influential leader since Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the republic, Mr. Erdogan, who has transformed Turkey into an economic dynamo, has drawn increasing criticism at home and abroad for a recent crackdown on journalists, writers and other critics.
Those concerns were amplified this week when Turkey's electoral body disqualified 12 parliamentary candidates, seven of whom were from the B.D.P., from running in the June elections. The decision set off violent protests not just in traditional Kurdish hotbeds like this city, Van and Hakkari but in Istanbul as well. B.D.P. leaders threatened to boycott the elections. On Thursday, the electoral body revised its decision, saying that eight of the barred candidates were now eligible, following appeals by the candidates. But it was unclear whether that would mollify Kurdish anger.
All of which represents an awkward challenge for Mr. Erdogan -- who had urged Egypt's former leader, Hosni Mubarak, to listen to his own people during the Egyptian uprising -- and to Turkey's broader reputation as the region's most advanced democracy.
For a political party that has been closed down six times, the four demands that underpin the B.D.P.'s protest movement ask much of a state that has always been extremely sensitive to any perceived threat to its unity.
The demands call for the right for Kurds to be educated in their own language and the freedom to use it in the political arena; the immediate cessation of military operations against Kurds by the Turkish Army; the release of all political prisoners, including Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the Kurds' illegal military wing, the P.K.K.; and the removal of the controversial 10 percent electoral threshold that bars any party that cannot attract that share of the national vote from gaining seats in Parliament.
In its blend of the reasonable, like language and representation rights, and the more far-fetched, like the release of Mr. Ocalan, the Kurdish demands exemplify the tensions within the movement between those who want change through the ballot box and those who prefer to secure it by more violent means.
Perhaps no one embodies this push and pull more so than Abdullah Demirbas, the Kurdish mayor of one of Diyarbakir's larger municipalities. Jailed in 2009 for having used Kurdish in an official capacity as mayor, he was released last year and was recently re-elected.
Over lunch at a local restaurant, where he was frequently interrupted by his constituents giving their best wishes, Mr. Demirbas recounted the story of his 18-year-old son who abandoned high school two years ago to join the P.K.K. and its armed struggle.
''When I got my jail sentence he told me: 'That is what you get for being a democrat -- now it is time to fight,' '' Mr. Demirbas said. Attempts to dissuade his son were unsuccessful, and Mr. Demirbas has not had any communication with him since then. In fact, he cannot be sure if he is alive.
''As a father I was upset, but my son was fighting for freedom,'' he said. ''It's the state I blame, not him. It is so important to solve these problems in a democratic way, but how do we do this if they put us in jail?''
When Mr. Demirbas speaks of Mr. Ocalan, he uses the Turkish honorific ''sayin,'' loosely translated as esteemed, and he refers to him as ''the representative for three million Kurds in Turkey.'' Because Mr. Ocalan led a military uprising that resulted in the loss of more than 36,000 lives and is seen by most Turks as an unreconstructed terrorist, statements like Mr. Demirbas's anger many and feed a suspicion that the party is a front for the P.K.K.
''We have given them schools, TV channels and still they want more,'' said Remzi Akin, the owner of a leather shop and a part-time taxi driver in Istanbul. ''You extend your hand and then they take your whole body.''
Mr. Akin, a supporter of Mr. Erdogan, fumes with anger that Mr. Ocalan has not yet been hanged.
But his view, while perhaps on the extreme side, is one that the government, which has gone further than any other in ceding ground to the Kurds, is sensitive to because it can ill afford to alienate the large number of Turks who see any concession to the P.K.K. as traitorous.
Still, the shift in attitude toward the Kurds under Mr. Erdogan has been significant. His government has removed the emergency law that covered the southeast in 2002, and it has established a Kurdish-language channel. This month, Turkey's finance minister, Mehmet Simsek, who is Kurdish, delivered portions of a public speech in Kurd-dominated northern Iraq in Kurdish.
For Kadri Yildirim, who operates a Kurdish-language institute at a state-run university in Mardin, a mountaintop town that overlooks northern Syria, those and other changes are, he said, ''beyond my wildest dreams.''
Opened a year ago, the four-year postgraduate program trains teachers in the Kurdish language and culture and is to be followed by a similar course for undergraduates -- a baby step, but one that Mr. Yildirim said he saw as positive nonetheless.
But as tensions increase before the elections, these small measures of progress have been overcome by the push for faster, bolder changes.
''Why shouldn't I be able to listen to my Friday sermon in Kurdish?'' asked Resat Dalgic, a 56-year-old shoeshine man, as he prepared to attend the mass prayer protest. ''It's a basic right, is it not?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kurdish demonstrators clashed with the police in Istanbul this week during a protest against political restrictions on Kurdish parliamentary candidates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4)
 Kurds seeking greater political and cultural rights staged a protest march this week in Istanbul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSMAN ORSAL/REUTERS) (A6) MAP: Diyarbakir has been a hotbed of Kurdish activity in Turkey. (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); RIOTS (66%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (66%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (65%); BOYCOTTS (64%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (60%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%) TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011



510 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: BAD TIMES LINGER IN HOME BUILDING AS ECONOMY RISES

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Ill. -- In this distant Chicago suburb, a builder has finally found a way to persuade people to buy a new house: he throws in a car.
Kim Meier's spring promotion, which includes a $17,000 credit at a nearby General Motors dealer, has produced seven sales since the beginning of March, a veritable windfall of business for a builder who sold only 20 houses last year. ''We needed to do something dramatic,'' said Mr. Meier. ''The market's been soft.''
That is one way of putting it. The recession hurt a lot of industries, but it knocked the residential construction market to the mat and has kept it there, even as the broader economy has started to fitfully recover.
Sales of new single-family homes in February were down more than 80 percent from the 2005 peak, far exceeding the 28 percent drop in existing home sales. New single-family sales are now lower than at any point since the data was first collected in 1963, when the nation had 120 million fewer residents. 
Builders and analysts say a long-term shift in behavior seems to be under way. Instead of wanting the biggest and the newest, even if it requires a long commute, buyers now demand something smaller, cheaper and, thanks to $4-a-gallon gas, as close to their jobs as possible. That often means buying a home out of foreclosure from a bank.
Four out of 10 sales of existing homes are foreclosures or otherwise distressed properties. Builders like Mr. Meier who specialize in putting up entire neighborhoods on a city's outskirts -- Richmond is some 50 miles northwest of downtown Chicago -- cannot compete despite chopping prices.
Chicago was not an epicenter of the housing boom with the sort of overbuilding found in Arizona or Florida, but new-home sales in the metro area are down 90 percent. There are about 65 sales a week for a region of 10 million people.
Several factors have combined to make the Chicago market so weak. There were more subprime loans here, which meant more defaults, which in turn left more distressed homes for buyers to choose from.
Most of the construction here was done by private builders. Unlike the national firms, they did not have the resources to survive a prolonged downturn. ''Some of the private builders just evaporated, and some said the hell with it,'' said Tracy Cross, a consultant who tracks the local market. Only a few remain, including Mr. Meier's KLM Builders.
Construction of new single-family homes usually surges after a recession because of lower rates and pent-up demand. But the Census Bureau said this week that while multi-unit construction had picked up strongly in the last year, single-family home construction fell 21 percent to an annual rate of 422,000. One consequence of the anemic pace: more than 1.4 million residential construction jobs have been lost in the last five years.
Robert Barycki is one of a handful of buyers keeping the market from drying up completely. He's 30, a partner in a hardware store, and currently living with his parents. He was drawn by the new-car offer to the biggest of KLM's four active developments, called Sunset Ridge Estates.
''My money was in the bank, collecting very little interest, so I thought I might as well take a little gamble,'' said Mr. Barycki, who is paying $182,000 for a three-bedroom. ''Eventually, home-owning will come back.''
Eventually, no doubt. But in the meantime, sentiment might still be souring. Executives at Equity LifeStyle Properties, a Chicago firm that sells properties in resort communities, said this week they were seeing ''a psychological change'': potential customers wanted to preserve their capital rather than risk it in real estate.
Bill McBride, who runs the popular financial blog Calculated Risk, said this might be the moment when people decisively started to turn on home ownership. ''I'm starting to feel the hate,'' he wrote.
In such an atmosphere, every new home built and sold represents a victory. One of the few segments of the market that has shown signs of life is urban townhomes. Lennar, a national builder, has one of these developments under way in the upscale community of Arlington Heights, about 20 miles from downtown Chicago.
Then Pulte, another national builder, started construction on its own townhouse community a few miles away, even as it was recording a 2010 third-quarter loss of a billion dollars. In the meantime, Lennar cut its prices by another 10 percent, but sales in the fourth quarter barely budged.
Lennar says its sales have picked up and it is drawing customers from people who looked at Pulte's project and passed. Pulte says the same thing about Lennar.
''It's brutal out there,'' said Mr. Cross, the consultant. ''You have to put on your boxing gloves.''
Some victories may be brief. Builders say buyers have been acting ahead of a small rise in mortgage insurance premiums from the Federal Housing Administration, which backs many purchases. That mini-rush to lock in a deal might lift March sales figures for new homes, which are due out Monday, analysts say.
Mr. Meier, who has been building in this stretch near the Wisconsin border for 25 years, hopes the car promotion will put a floor under his market. In flush times, he would sell about 100 houses a year to a diverse group of buyers, from empty nesters to commuters.
Richmond bills itself as a ''Village of Yesteryear,'' which has come true in another way as house prices roll back to the mid-1990s. But some KLM buyers look for more, choosing to skip the car and put the $17,000 into the house instead.
That is what Wayne and Doris Powrozek, who are paying $193,000 for a three-bedroom, did. ''If it's free, it's for me,'' said Mr. Powrozek, who recently retired from AT&T.
The Powrozeks bought because they were worried prices were going up. Mr. Meier says he thinks they must -- the cost of raw materials is rising. But with the price of existing homes continuing to fall, and the prospect of more foreclosures, he could again price himself out of the market.
Like nearly all those in real estate, Mr. Meier is determinedly optimistic. ''Everybody wants in at the top, no one wants in at the bottom,'' he said. ''People are paralyzed by their fear.''
Last year, KLM told buyers it would match the government's $8,000 tax credit. The car promotion more than doubles that. If the market still does not turn around, what could be their next promotion?
''Buy one, get one free,'' his wife, Sally, suggested. They had a good laugh over that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kim Meier, top, the owner of KLM Builders, is offering a car with each home sale. The promotion has helped sales at the development in Richmond, Ill., above left, but business is still relatively slow. Above right, the entryway of a KLM model home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); CENSUS (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011



511 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Rich vs. Poor in the Budget Debate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Pirates of Capitol Hill,'' by Charles M. Blow (column, April 16):
The vacuity and treachery of political discourse today are shocking. We are now a nation that has willingly blinded ourselves to our leaders' destructive illogic, when reasoned compromise and inclusive thinking are so critically needed. We must ensure that our wealth-building platform remains accessible to all citizens.
If we govern now by sound bite, here is one: ''Give the rich a tax cut equal to the taxes paid by the new jobs they create.'' This is an incentive that will satisfy the desire of the wealthy to help build a strong America. 
PHIL EVANS Belmont, Calif., April 16, 2011
To the Editor:
The indignation of those on the left to the mere mention of tax cuts on high-income earners continues to puzzle me. Charles M. Blow's argument that high-income earners are not paying their fair share of taxes is not supported by the facts.
To begin with, the tax cuts enacted by Congress in 2001 and signed into law by President George W. Bush lowered marginal tax rates for all income earners, not just the ''rich.'' Millions of low-income earners were dropped from the federal income tax rolls as a result, shifting the tax burden up the income scale.
As of 2006, 46 million American households paid no federal income tax. Those with incomes of $89,500 and up in 2006, representing the top 40 percent of income earners, paid 99.2 percent of all federal income taxes, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Incredibly, the top 1 percent of income earners paid 39.1 percent of all federal income taxes.
If 1 percent of the population pays 39.1 percent of all federal income tax receipts and 40 percent of the population pays nothing, which group is the glutton? Which is the plunderer?
SEAN F. FLAHERTY Boston, April 16, 2011
To the Editor:
America is heading for a fiscal abyss at breakneck speed. Yet Paul Krugman (''Let's Not Be Civil,'' column, April 18) can only offer a vigorous defense of political incivility, even going so far as to label consensus ''undemocratic.'' Constructive compromise in a republic is not surrender; it's sensibility.
Compromise does not mean that principles and values should be discarded or that the correct answer always lies in the middle of two views. But it does require that our elected officials have the common-sense courage to incorporate some of the biggest concerns of the minority within the solutions offered by the majority. Only by doing that can we achieve both sensible and sustainable results.
As this week's report by Standard & Poor's on our country's debt demonstrates, hyperpartisanship and ideological warfare have placed the world's strongest economy in peril. We must break the political stalemate in Washington and change course or face the consequences of incivility -- a financial catastrophe the likes of which most Americans have never witnessed and should never have to.
DAVID M. WALKER Bridgeport, Conn., April 20, 2011
The writer, a founding leader of the new political group No Labels, was United States comptroller general from 1998 to 2008.
To the Editor:
Does America really want to be a genuine democracy, or do we want to continue to live in a plutocracy where the wealthy are in total control of our lives? Perhaps the major debate leading up to the 2012 election should center around the answers to the question: In these difficult economic times, where does our country go from here? Morally and spiritually, what kind of people are we?
What moral sense does it make to call for low taxes on high incomes and drastic cuts in needed social programs? Is everything America has been, is now and forever will be a result of rich people's generosity?
The American empire is beginning to crumble, and the main cause is the greed that runs our individual lives, corporate lives and capitalistic economic system. What's right with a system that makes the rich richer and the poor poorer?
Let the justice debate begin!
PAUL L. WHITELEY Sr. Louisville, Ky., April 20, 2011
To the Editor:
Let ''The New Republican Landscape'' (editorial, April 18) be a wake-up call for all of those blue-collar workers and elderly people who are willing to give their votes to the Republican Party. Those of us on the left have been trying to convince them for years that a vote for Republicans is indeed a vote against themselves. Republicans do not, and will never, represent the working and middle classes; they protect the interests of corporations and the rich.
In the 19th century, Karl Marx warned us about class warfare. What we are witnessing now is exactly that -- an open assault on workers. Enough is enough.
I agree that we must not let this right-wing Republican Party dismantle ''the foundations of the New Deal and the Great Society'' or ''liberate business and the rich from the inconveniences of oversight and taxes.''
MICHAEL HADJIARGYROU Stony Book, N.Y., April 18, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JUSTIN GABBARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); LEGISLATION (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011



512 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Sewers, Swaps And Bachus

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Let me tell you a story about Jefferson County, Alabama, whose county seat is Birmingham, and whose congressman is Spencer Bachus, the Republican who chairs the House Financial Services Committee.
Once upon a time -- back when too many people viewed derivatives as glittering innovations with magical powers to hedge against risk -- Jefferson County was ordered by the Environmental Protection Agency to upgrade its sewer system. To finance the new sewers, it issued bonds totaling nearly $3.2 billion.
After the sewer system was completed, the county moved all that debt from fixed rates to variable rates. It did so because some investment bankers at JPMorgan persuaded the county to purchase derivative contracts, in the form of interest rate swaps, that would supposedly allow it to avoid paying higher interest if rates went up. Magic indeed. 
At first, this arrangement worked well enough. Though the cost of the sewers was bloated beyond belief -- they were originally supposed to cost $1 billion -- the county made its bond payments. The bank reaped handsome fees from its swaps contracts.
But the financial crisis caused those clever hedges to go blooey. Indeed, the swaps not only failed to protect the county from losses -- they actually exacerbated the losses. In addition, two of its bond insurers had their credit rating lowered because they had also insured lots of toxic subprime derivatives. The downgrade triggered huge hikes in interest and principal for Jefferson County.*
Today, the county is broke; according to The Birmingham News, it may run out of cash by July. It is toying with a bankruptcy filing -- which, if it happened, would be the largest municipal bankruptcy in history.
Though the county no longer has to pay fees to JPMorgan -- the bank agreed to void the swaps as part of a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission -- its bond debt for the sewers now totals almost $4 billion. The Birmingham News described Jefferson County as a ''poster child'' for all that can go wrong when municipalities start playing with unregulated derivatives peddled by Wall Street sharpies.
Has Spencer Bachus, as the local congressman, decried this debacle? Of course -- what local congressman wouldn't? In a letter last year to Mary Schapiro, the chairwoman of the S.E.C., he said that the county's financing schemes ''magnified the inherent risks of the municipal finance market.'' (He also blamed, among other things, ''serious corruption,'' of which there was plenty, including secret payments by JPMorgan to people who could influence the county commissioners.)
Bachus is not just your garden variety local congressman, though. As chairman of the Financial Services Committee, he is uniquely positioned to help make sure that similar disasters never happen again -- not just in Jefferson County but anywhere. After all, the new Dodd-Frank financial reform law will, at long last, regulate derivatives. And the implementation of that law is being overseen by Bachus and his committee.
Among its many provisions related to derivatives -- all designed to lessen their systemic risk -- is a series of rules that would make it close to impossible for the likes of JPMorgan to pawn risky derivatives off on municipalities. Dodd-Frank requires sellers of derivatives to take a near-fiduciary interest in the well-being of a municipality.
You would think Bachus would want these regulations in place as quickly as possible, given the pain his constituents are suffering. Yet, last week, along with a handful of other House Republican bigwigs, he introduced legislation that would do just the opposite: It would delay derivative regulation until January 2013.
It is hard not to see this move as an act of hostility toward any derivative regulation. After all, by 2013 a presidential election will have taken place, and if the Republicans take the White House and the Senate, one can expect that the next step would be to roll back derivative regulation entirely. Even if it is just about delay, rather than outright obstruction, that means the Republicans are asking for two more years during which the industry will add trillions of dollars worth of ''financial weapons of mass destruction'' (to use Warren Buffett's famous description) to the $466.8 trillion of unregulated derivatives already in existence. How can this possibly be good?
I tried to ask this question of Bachus, but I was told he was unavailable. I asked his staff if he believed, after the experience of Jefferson County, that derivatives should be regulated at all. I couldn't get an answer.
I'll keep trying. It's not just an answer his constituents deserve to hear. Given the risks derivatives still pose, it's something the nation needs to know about Chairman Bachus. If he decides to tell me, I promise to pass it on.
*Disclosure alert: Among the many lawsuits resulting from this fiasco is one brought by a bond insurer against Jefferson County. The county has hired Boies, Schiller & Flexner to defend it. The firm employs my fiancee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COUNTIES (89%); BONDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); BOND ISSUES (71%); CORRUPTION (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: SPENCER BACHUS (90%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011



513 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Wanna Buy A Turnpike?

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Right now you're probably asking yourself: How are all the angry new governors doing?
Great! Fear and loathing may abound, but it's business-friendly fear and loathing. In Ohio and Wisconsin, angry new governors John Kasich and Scott Walker are taking economic development out of the hands of state bureaucrats and giving the job to new quasi-private entities that will be much more effective and efficient.
In Florida, where the Legislature did all that in the 1990s, the angry new governor Rick Scott has a bold plan to improve economic development by creating a State Department of Commerce that will be much more effective and efficient. 
Really, just so there's change and it doesn't sound socialistic. ''We don't want to leave any money on the table,'' said Kasich, who is planning to sell five prisons, the lottery and maybe do something with the turnpike. I'm from Ohio, and while I never did like the turnpike, I've always been a fan of history. I wonder if I could get a good deal on the Warren Harding homestead.
In Maine, Gov. Paul LePage has won his fight to remove a huge Department of Labor mural that LePage regarded as too pro-labor. Now his administration is marching ahead with its effort to rename the building's conference rooms. Among the names targeted for elimination are Frances Perkins, F.D.R.'s secretary of labor, and William Looney, a 19th-century Republican who sponsored legislation to limit the number of hours women and children could work in factories.
The department has asked its employees to come up with new names that, according to its memo, ''should not reflect a bias toward either business or workers.'' Definitely do not want to give the impression that government is on the side of the workers. Perhaps attending meetings in the William Looney room made employers worry that the LePage administration leaned too far to the left when it came to child labor laws.
Gov. Butch Otter of Idaho is so on the side of private enterprise ranchers that he just signed a law naming the gray wolf a ''disaster emergency.'' I would love to go into this, but he's actually not new in office. I just brought it up because I like being able to say ''Butch Otter.''
Meanwhile, in news from South Carolina, Gov. Nikki Haley, a Tea Party favorite, tossed out Darla Moore, a longtime member of the University of South Carolina Board of Trustees. Moore had given money to one of the Democratic candidates for governor, saying she wanted ''a fresh set of eyes.'' This would not be all that big a deal except that Moore is the biggest donor in the university's history. She has given at least $70 million to the school, which would seem to be worth one heck of a lot of sets of eyes.
Moore is being replaced by Thomas ''Tommy'' Cofield, a lawyer and Haley supporter who formerly served as a judge on the Fee Dispute Resolution Board. According to his biography, he is also active in community and civic affairs.
In Wisconsin, Governor Walker is moving people around like crazy. He tapped Brian Deschane, a director at the Department of Regulation and Licensing, to oversee regulatory and environmental issues when the Commerce Department turns into the new public-private thingie.
This was a meteoric rise for Deschane, a 27-year-old college dropout who had been at his job for only a couple of months. The promotion carried a 26 percent raise in salary to $81,500 a year, along with the opportunity to manage dozens of other state employees. It offered an exciting change of pace for the Wisconsin wunderkind, whose previous experience had mainly involved short-term political campaign jobs and working for the Wisconsin Builders Association, where his father, Jerry, is a lobbyist and executive vice president. Did we mention that the W.B.A. and its members gave Walker $121,652 in campaign contributions?
''He got the position himself,'' the elder Deschane assured The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. ''I didn't get it for him.'' He did acknowledge that he might have mentioned to Walker's campaign manager that the kid was ''out there and available.''
People, does this sound like good planning to you? If you were governor and one of your top priorities was getting jobs taken out from under civil service protection, wouldn't you put up a Post-it reminding yourself not to put the unqualified offspring of major campaign contributors in important positions?
After the story broke, the governor was deeply embarrassed, and Deschane -- did we mention he had two D.W.I. convictions? -- was demoted back to his original job, which he then quit. He is history, although Stephen Fitzgerald, the father of the speaker of the Assembly and also the father of the speaker's brother, the Senate majority leader, still has his new job as head of the Wisconsin State Patrol.
There is, you know, a reason we created civil service in the first place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); CHILD LABOR (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (69%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (63%)

PERSON: PAUL LEPAGE (78%); JOHN KASICH (73%); RICK SCOTT (73%); SCOTT WALKER (73%); BUTCH OTTER (58%); NIKKI HALEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011



514 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: In Media's Wedding Frenzy, Hints of Viewer Fatigue

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA; Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LONDON -- When Prince William and Kate Middleton emerge from Westminster Abbey as a married couple next Friday, they will be greeted by hundreds of reporters from around the world. But as the day draws near, there are signs that the media frenzy may outpace interest in the United States, and some disdain is appearing among the British as well.
The latest New York Times/CBS News poll, of 1,224 Americans, has found that only 6 percent of respondents have been following news about the wedding ''very closely,'' and another 22 percent ''somewhat closely.'' 
Though a third of women under age 40, and 4 in 10 of those 40 and up, said they were keeping track of events, half of the male respondents said they were not following the buildup at all.
Anchors, reporters and support staff from American networks and cable news channels are already arriving here. And in the days leading up to the wedding, Buckingham Palace has promised to keep its floodlights on an hour later, until midnight, so that the palace can be used as backdrop for live news reports by broadcast networks in the United States.
But those networks are remaining tight-lipped about how extensive their coverage will be. CBS and NBC said they did not discuss staffing decisions; ABC did not respond to messages.
But three employees at NBC News, who spoke anonymously out of concern for their jobs, said that NBC and MSNBC would have about 200 people involved in covering the wedding. The large numbers were prompted, suggested one, by ''the thinking that it's a happy, fairy-tale story -- and America needs happy stories right now.''
Some Americans, though, rejected that idea when contacted for a follow-up interview after The Times/CBS poll.
''It's their British thing, it's their custom,'' said Edward Rakas, 57, of Colchester, Conn. ''I guess they enjoy it, but it's just not something I'm interested in.''
Even in Britain, where hundreds of thousands are expected to fill London on the wedding day, a significant number -- about 47 percent in a telephone poll conducted by Ipsos MORI last week -- said they had little or no interest in the proceedings.
Some of that might be attributed to the contrast of a wedding steeped in centuries of opulent privilege with sweeping spending cuts that the government says are necessary to tame Britain's deficit.
When it was announced in November that Prince William was engaged to Miss Middleton, one reader of The Daily Mail, which is usually staunchly royalist, commented, tongue in cheek, that the princess-to-be ''has been largely unemployed since she left school and is now marrying someone who has been on welfare most of his life.'' With cuts to state benefits inevitable, the reader went on, ''I do worry for them.''
And in contrast to the ranks of earnest souvenirs that now fill London's tourist shops, disaffected Britons can also buy royal wedding airsickness bags.
Lydia Leith, the graphic designer behind the bags, said in an interview on Friday that she was inspired to make them after conversations with people who said they were ''sick of the royal wedding.''
She estimates that she has sold about 8,000 since February, adding, ''I haven't really had time to count because I am just about keeping up with orders.'' Large quantities have been bought, she said, for anti-wedding parties that will be taking place around the country on Friday.
Many of those parties were organized by Republic, a group that has campaigned for the abolition of the monarchy since 1983, according to Graham Smith, its executive officer. ''We've seen roughly a doubling of our numbers since the engagement was announced in November,'' he said, ''to about 14,000.''
Mr. Smith hopes that the wedding will help rally others sympathetic to his cause; the MORI poll showed that 18 percent of Britons would like to see the end of the monarchy.
''While we're all tightening our belts,'' he said, ''they are helping themselves to our tax money for a big wedding.''
The American media, said Fred M. Leventhal, emeritus professor of British history at Boston University, ''does not have to worry about constitutional or financial elements.''
Instead, he said, ''It's fascinated with things royal partly because they're different from what we have. The glamour that attaches itself to some presidents, like Kennedy and to a lesser extent Obama, is politicized, and many people don't go along with it. The royal family are exotic, and they're free from all those conflicted political questions.''
But when British royals toured the United States in 1939, he said, ''they deliberately did not include most of the Midwest, because they felt there was general indifference.''
More than 70 years later, he said, ''it seems likely there will be large parts of the country that are indifferent this time, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Union Jacks on Regent Street in London, where the city is preparing for the big day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (89%); ROYAL WEDDING OF PRINCE WILLIAM & KATE MIDDLETON (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (68%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); IPSOS MORI (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: PRINCE WILLIAM (78%); CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011



515 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; NEW YORK AUTO SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: At Last, a Celebration of the Sippers

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
IN recent years, the messages delivered at auto shows have often been mixed or garbled, especially during times when oil prices swung wildly. Carmakers floated burly S.U.V.'s just as consumers decided they wanted hybrids; hybrids arrived just as consumers decided it was safe to re-up with an S.U.V.
But at this year's New York International Auto Show, where two days of press previews began on Wednesday ahead of Friday's public opening, automakers seemed on-message -- and on the same page with consumers -- with a focus on fuel economy, no matter the type of vehicle. Even diversions created for media attention were well intended: an appearance by Kiss band members for Mini promoted a charity auction of four customized Countryman models.
Mark Reuss, General Motors' North American president, spoke with a reporter just offstage from the 2013 Chevrolet Malibu midsize sedan, whose Eco version is projected to earn an E.P.A. rating of 26 m.p.g. in town and 38 m.p.g. on the highway. 
Mr. Reuss said that today, despite energy volatility and disasters both natural and man-made, G.M. and other automakers can only sharpen their focus and avoid short-term distractions.
''We've quit trying to predict gas prices and Libyan crises, and to just get a solid business model that grows share and profits,'' Mr. Reuss said.
As the last major show of the season -- it runs through May 1 -- New York's show is one last chance for automakers to wow shoppers with their latest creations. Stressing the influence of fuel-economy numbers, companies suggested that 40 m.p.g. has become the new 30.
For compacts like the new Honda Civic -- perhaps the most critical mass-appeal car unveiled here -- membership in the growing 40-m.p.g. club has become a no-excuses requirement. From now on, cars that fail to measure up might well be hooted off the show stage.
The Civic avoided that fate with a frugal HF model whose 41 m.p.g. highway rating tops any rival equipped with an automatic transmission. A new Civic Hybrid betters that at 44/44 m.p.g. for city and highway.
Even the athletic Mazda 3, once a fuel-economy laggard, now boasts 40 highway m.p.g. The 2012 model that goes on sale this fall uses an advanced gasoline engine technology the company calls Skyactiv. The 2012 Subaru Impreza sedan can't chin the 40-m.p.g. bar but it manages 36, impressive for an all-wheel-drive car.
Perhaps more than any car at the show, it was a Mercedes-Benz design study, the Concept A-Class, that signaled what might be the new normal. Sensing that Americans would reject its compact yet utilitarian hatchback, Mercedes had not brought the A-Class to the United States. But a strikingly reimagined A-Class design study will spawn production versions that combine luxury and 4-cylinder economy.
Here are some of the significant showroom models seen in New York:
BMW Z4 SDRIVE 28I The Z4 roadster recently jazzed up its styling inside and out. Now the 2012 base model, on sale this fall, gets BMW's first 4-cylinder engine in the United States since the 318ti of 1999. A 2-liter, twin-scroll turbocharged 4-cylinder steps in for the previous 3-liter in-line 6, delivering 240 horses and 260 pound-feet of torque.
CHEVROLET MALIBU Looking to capitalize on the well-received Malibu sedan, Chevy's reworked 2013 model borrows Camaro styling cues, including its rectangular taillamps, while muscling up and adding space with a three-inch gain in width. A new Eco version adopts G.M.'s e-Assist hybrid system; the car goes on sale next year.
FIAT 500C On the stylish stiletto heels of the 500 coupe, the 500c cabriolet offers a retractable canvas awning.. The al fresco Fiat goes on sale this spring, starting at around $19,500.
FORD TAURUS AND TAURUS SHO Showroom bound next spring as 2013 models, the mildly reworked Taurus and high-performance SHO get more-appealing interiors with Ford's latest MyTouch infotainment system. The Limited model will add a fuel-efficient 2-liter Ecoboost engine, with a twin-turbocharged Ecoboost V-6 soldiering on in the SHO.
HONDA CIVICHonda seems to be betting that subtle improvements, not radical design changes, will keep the 2012 Civic ensconced as a best-seller. But the new Civic's interior, unimaginative in its styling and choice of plastics, seemed to please no one. (The Civic Si version's cabin was a happy exception). The fully redesigned Civic is available in coupe, sedan, hybrid, spunky Si and natural-gas-powered editions. Already on sale, the Civic's prices cover an equally broad swath, from a DX coupe at $16,355 to $27,500 for a loaded Hybrid.
HYUNDAI ACCENTStarting at just over $13,000, Hyundai's entry-level model costs more but delivers more, with a sedan and hatchback that trade formerly forgettable styling for the shapely ''fluidic'' design language of the larger Elantra and Sonata. On sale in May, the 2012 Accent manages 138 horsepower from a 1.6-liter engine, with 6-speed manual or automatic transmissions.
KIA RIO In a show where econoboxes seemed to breed like Tribbles on the original ''Star Trek,'' the Rio actually managed to stand out, thanks to the talented efforts of Kia's design chief, Peter Schreyer. The Rio hatchback goes on sale in summer, the sedan in fall, both starting at $12,990. The Kia should earn the coveted 40-m.p.g. rating from the E.P.A. It shares its 1.6-liter, 138 horsepower engine with its Hyundai Accent sibling, but adds a fuel-saving engine stop-start system.
JEEP GRAND CHEROKEE SRT8 Huge and hugely handsome -- at least for performance S.U.V. fans -- the SRT8 is stoplight-ready, ripping off the 0-60 run in 4.8 seconds, thanks to 465 horsepower from its 6.4-liter Hemi V-8. The Jeep goes on sale in May for a price of roughly $45,000.
NISSAN VERSAWith 1.6 liters and 109 horsepower, the all-new Versa will take on other penny-pinchers this summer -- including a bare-bones model starting at just $10,990 excluding the delivery charge. The Versa targets a 30/37 m.p.g. rating in city and highway, aided by either a 5-speed manual or continuously variable automatic.
SUBARU IMPREZA The styling may be tame by Subaru's standards, but the Impreza sedan keeps its signature all-wheel-drive system, a useful foul-weather feature that's not available on any compact rival but one that adds weight and handicaps mileage. A new 148-horsepower 2-liter opposed 4-cylinder engine is paired with either a 5-speed manual transmission or a C.V.T., with projected fuel economy of up to 27/36 m.p.g. in city and highway.
VOLKSWAGEN BEETLE The 2012 Beetle, to be built in Mexico, will seek more than senoritas with its less cutesy shape and more manly interior. Karl Bischoff, the designer for this update, called his baby ''more power than flower.'' Indeed, the previous Beetle's flower-bud vase is gone, replaced by raised auxiliary instruments. The engine trio comprises a 170-horse 4, a 200-horse turbo 4 and a 2-liter diesel 4 that reaches the new magic number of 40 highway m.p.g.
Here are some of the design studies that automakers introduced to the press in New York:
LEXUS LF-GH Auto journalists roundly savaged the Lexus concept, the show's consensus ugly duckling with its echo-of-Audi grille and woozy tangle of styling cues. Unveiled on the eve of the show's media days, the LF-Gh highlights the company's supposed new styling direction, and a high-performance hybrid system whose details Lexus left to the imagination.
MERCEDES-BENZ CONCEPT A-CLASS Hatchback fans will need to be patient, but luxurious offshoots of this lovely A-Class should arrive in America within the next three years. The concept was shown without a full interior, focusing attention on its bravura grille treatment, a shimmering aluminum matrix.
MAZDA MINAGI The Minagi will shine as the CX-5 model when it goes on sale next year, a shapely compact crossover that adopts the company's new Skyactiv suite of fuel-efficient engines, transmissions and other components.
SAAB PHOENIX With Saab production still locked down because of a dispute with unpaid suppliers, the PhoeniX name -- if not its actual prospects -- proclaims that Saab will rise again. The concept has a 1.6-liter turbo engine, with an electric motor providing an all-wheel-drive boost at the rear. Saab projects a 47 m.p.g. rating if indeed the car -- and Saab itself -- has a future.
SCION FR-S Like the A-Class, the Scion was the rare, sporty stunner in a show that was heavy on prosaic economy and family cars. Another take on the long-gestating Toyota-Subaru sports car project, the Scion borrows Subaru's 2-liter opposed 4-cylinder, mounted as low and rearward as possible to aid handling balance. A showroom model is scheduled for next year.
The New York International Auto Show runs through Sunday, May 1, at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on 11th Avenue near 34th Street. Tickets are $14 for adults, $4 for children under 13. Information is available at (800) 282- 3336 or at autoshowny.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AUTO BAZAAR: From top, Jack Hollis, vice president of Scion, introduced the FR-S, a sporty concept car, at the Javits Center
Chevrolet rolled out the 2013 Malibu in both New York and Shanghai
the next-generation Volkswagen Beetle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
NORMAN MAYERSOHN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU1)
NEW COMPACTS: Left, 2012 Subaru Impreza will get better mileage. Right, 2012 Honda Civic Si coupe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
NEW GERMANS: The Audi A7, left, will reach dealerships in May, priced around $60,000. C63 AMG, above, is a version of the new Mercedes C-Class coupe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
NORMAN MAYERSOHN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 GAME FACE: Jim McDowell, president of Mini, with Gene Simmons of Kiss. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW GOMBERT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); SEDANS (88%); AUCTIONS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); CHARITIES (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



516 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION WESTCHESTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: In a Slow Economy, Rentals Zoom

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
THE uncertain economy, combined with a depressed housing market and tight credit standards, has fostered an increase in residential leasing in Westchester and nearby counties -- a trend so pronounced that at least one agency, Better Homes and Gardens Rand, recently introduced a rentals-only Web site for its clients.
''In some ways, renters have become the new buyers,'' said Joseph Rand, a managing partner for the agency, which has offices in Westchester, Dutchess, Orange and Rockland Counties. 
Indeed Westchester is the fifth-tightest market for rental apartments in the nation, with a 3.5 percent vacancy rate at the end of the first quarter of this year, according to Brad Doremus, an economic analyst for REIS, a real estate research firm in Manhattan. Because New York City, at 2.8 percent, has the lowest vacancy rate in the nation, renters have sought alternatives in the suburbs, Mr. Doremus explained, noting that Long Island and central New Jersey follow Westchester, in sixth and seventh place respectively.
There has also been a recent infusion of rental properties, as owners of single-family houses, condominiums and cooperatives find themselves unable to sell at the prices they want. In the area served by Better Homes and Gardens Rand, the 1,457 rental listings in the first quarter represented a significant increase, from 970 in the first quarter of 2010.
Similarly, at CS Realty in Harrison -- which gives Web visitors the option at the top of its home page to search for rentals or sales -- rental searches increased this spring to about 13,000 per month, from about 4,800 a month in the fall of 2009, said Craig Scher, the broker-owner. All this interest has changed the image of renters, he said. ''There's always been a bit of a stigma attached to renting,'' Mr. Rand observed, ''but that's not so anymore, especially as more high-end rental properties come on the market.''
For example, RandRentals.com lists a four-bedroom three-bath contemporary in Thornwood for $4,500 a month, and a two-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath condo in the Trump Tower in White Plains for $3,900 a month.
Among the ranks of new renters are young adults who don't want to commit to a mortgage because of the uncertain job market and unpredictable resale values, Mr. Rand said. There are also people whose only alternative is to rent because their credit ratings have been hurt by a foreclosure or a short sale.
Jacqualine Rubbo is 25 and single. A writer for a financial firm in Lower Manhattan, she is looking for a one-bedroom rental in Scarsdale, Tuckahoe or Hartsdale, close to a Metro-North train station.
''My parents tell me to buy something,'' Ms. Rubbo said. ''But with the state of economy and no job security these days, it's kind of scary to invest capital in such a volatile market. My mother's generation married early, settled in, bought a house with a picket fence, had three kids and got a dog.
''But my generation doesn't know where our jobs are going to take us. It could be California or Connecticut. The last thing we want to worry about is having to sell a house.''
As Mr. Rand said of the 20- to 35-year-old group: ''They're not like their fathers who expected to settle down and work for an I.B.M.-type company for 30 years. They've seen how that scenario has changed.''
Jesse and Nicole Harris are also searching for a rental, but for a different reason. Unable to sell their four-bedroom three-bath colonial in Stony Point for anywhere near the $700,000 they paid for it in 2005, they have no choice but to enter into a short-sale agreement with the lender. The house is listed at $539,000.
''My credit is shot,'' said Mr. Harris, 36, whose home health care business in Tarrytown failed. He is now selling real estate. Along with his wife and their daughters, 4 and 6, he hopes to move into a four-bedroom ranch in New City, in Rockland County. It is being offered at $3,500 a month by a homeowner who was unable to sell.
In Cortlandt Manor, Nina and Neil deLuca did not even bother to put their house up for sale. After Ms. deLuca lost her job as a medical receptionist, and the couple had to rely solely on Mr. deLuca's earnings as a musician for TV and film, they decided to rent out their three-bedroom colonial and move to a family home near Great Barrington, Mass. They're asking $2,800 a month for the colonial to cover the mortgage and taxes; on the house in the Berkshires, the mortgage is paid off.
''In this market it's not even worth trying to sell because we know we won't get our investment back,'' Ms. deLuca said. ''Maybe when the economy improves, we'll be able to move back. We love this house. We've put a lot into it. At least, that's our dream.''
At Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate services firm, Brian Whitmer, a director, said the growing demand for rentals was pushing up the prices for apartment buildings. The firm recently brokered a $14 million sale of the 183-unit Claremont Gardens in Ossining after what Mr. Whitmer described as intense bidding.
''That's a reflection of what's happening in this economy in the residential sector,'' he said. ''Demand is especially high for two- and three-bedroom apartments, because families that would have been able to purchase before 2006 now find it difficult to get mortgages. The bottom line is that many people today have to forgo buying, and building owners know that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PACKING UP: Nina and Neil deLuca in the Cortlandt Manor house that they plan to rent out. ''In this market it's not even worth trying to sell,'' Ms. deLuca says. ''We know we won't get our investment back.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



517 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: In an Afghan Village, Living in Fear of Both Sides

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
TOWDABAY KALAY, Afghanistan -- The American soldiers knew little about this farming village in the rugged foothills of Paktika Province in eastern Afghanistan, but they were told the Taliban moved through regularly.
When the soldiers, part of the First Battalion, 506th Infantry, arrived on foot one morning, hiking along terraced fields carved into the steep hillsides, they found the villagers fearful. Not just of the Taliban, but of NATO forces as well.
''We are scared of both sides,'' a village elder, Mutayeb Khan, told the soldiers, expressing a litany of concerns shared by many villagers in remote parts of the country.
They worry that NATO and Afghan forces will confuse them for insurgents while they're tending their fields or collecting wood in the hills; that the Taliban will attack them if they help, or even talk to coalition forces; that government forces will detain their young men, perhaps for years.. 
''We can't go to the Taliban and complain,'' Mr. Khan said. ''We can't go to the government because the Taliban will find out and call us spies and kill us.''
Founded or not, their fears underscore the daunting task that NATO forces face in persuading Afghans that coalition forces and the Afghan government can protect them, especially in areas with little government or NATO military presence.
Building that trust is a crucial goal as coalition forces lay the groundwork for turning over security to Afghan national forces by the end of 2014. And as coalition forces shift their focus to protecting population centers as part of Gen. David H. Petraeus's counterinsurgency plan, rural hamlets like Towdabay Kalay remain ripe for insurgents looking for recruits, sanctuary and supplies.
Military officials consider the province along the Pakistan border to be home to a robust insurgency, as well as a strategic crossing ground for militants entering the country from safe havens in North and South Waziristan in Pakistan. Across the province's western border lies Highway 1, providing easy access to Kabul, the capital.
Of the country's 34 provinces, Paktika has been the fourth-deadliest for coalition soldiers in the nearly decade-long conflict. The tribal system remains strong here, as does support for the militants.
In an Army survey in February, more than two-thirds of Paktika residents said they sympathized with the Taliban. Many others, like Mr. Khan, a leather-skinned farmer with a henna-dyed orange beard, simply feel helpless to resist them.
''They come down from everywhere, and what are we supposed to fight them with, this?'' he said, pointing to his cane.
''It would be good for everyone if you could put some A.N.S.F. in here,'' he added, referring to Afghan national security forces. ''We would be happy.''
Frontline commanders feel the villagers' frustration.
''What I'm careful about is coming in here and making a bunch of promises we can't keep,'' said Lt. Col. David B. Womack, the battalion commander. ''The most important thing we can do is connect them to Giroa, but there's no Giroa presence here, and there may not be for years,'' he added, using the acronym for the Afghan government's formal name, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Mr. Khan said Taliban had recently been arriving in the village wearing Afghan military and police uniforms, in line with recent attacks on government compounds across the country by insurgents disguised as members of the Afghan security forces. Often, he said, they simply send a messenger down from the mountains demanding food and supplies.
Emphasizing the fear many villagers share, Mr. Khan said militants had kidnapped eight people from his village over the past four years, accusing them of being government spies.
The militants killed one early on; five others were released. The last two were found dead on the side of the road last year with notes pinned to them warning villagers not to work for the government.
Two years ago, the Taliban burned down the school, the charred remnants of which still lie in a pile in a corner of the village.
Closer to the border in the Naka District, a collection of villages tucked in a mountain bowl, the Taliban blew up the district center two years ago. The government has had no presence there since. When soldiers with the Third Battalion, 506th Infantry, arrived there recently, villagers timidly made one point clear: They want government, but do not want the trouble.
''I have never seen the coalition shoot anyone,'' said Hajji Abdul Kabir, a wood merchant. ''But if we have contact with coalition or government forces, the Taliban will shoot us.''
Their concern is legitimate, said Capt. Henry Hansen, commander of the battalion's Company E. ''They think we're going to come in here and leave.''
In this case, though, the battalion was setting up an observation post overlooking the Naka villages, and planned to increase patrols through it.
The distrust goes both ways. Villagers often provide dubious information, identifying rival tribes as Taliban collaborators while denying there are any militants in their village. One group of villagers recently reported to Colonel Womack that the Taliban had built a road near their village. It turned out another tribe had built the road to harvest timber.
''The other villagers blamed the Taliban to get the coalition to target those guys,'' Colonel Womack said.
Efforts to build up the capacity of the Afghan government and trust in it here have increased steadily since August, when the last of the American surge brigades got here. The arrival of the unit, the 101st Airborne Division's Fourth Brigade Combat Team, greatly increased the troop presence in the province, which had been patrolled by a single battalion the previous year.
The reinforcements have improved security, allowing coalition and civilian aide workers to expand agricultural programs and road projects, using cash-for-work incentives to give unemployed men, desperate to support their families, an alternative to joining the insurgency for pay.
In the district center of Yahya Khel, which last fall was one of the most troubled areas in the province, dozens of farmers trekked from neighboring villages this spring to attend government-sponsored agricultural training.
''Clearly if I'm a local farmer there is some risk involved in going to the district center to receive this kind of training,'' said Maj. Steve Battle, the brigade's civil affairs officer. ''And yet they went, voluntarily. To me, that is a big measure of effectiveness.''
Even as security has improved here, civilian casualties are on the rise -- the vast majority caused by the Taliban. In January, 13 civilians died when their bus hit a mine in the Khoshamand District as they headed to a health clinic. Since January, militants have been responsible for at least 48 civilian deaths from attacks and roadside bombs, officials say.
But if anything, the rising casualty toll has bolstered the belief of many people that the government and coalition forces cannot protect them.
''If there's one thing I'm confident about, it's that we are above-board when it comes to civilian casualties, and it's painful when it happens,'' Colonel Womack said. ''But we've had over 60 civilian casualties caused by the Taliban since I've been here, and where's the uproar?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amir Khan, center, a village elder of Towdabay Kalay, in Paktika Province, told American soldiers about having been shot and then treated by coalition forces in the winter of 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAY RIVERA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Hamlets like Towdabay Kalay are ripe for insurgents looking for recruits and supplies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); TALIBAN (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (85%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



518 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: In a Former Bank, Money Still Talks

BYLINE: By SUSAN HODARA

 BODY:
WHITE PLAINS
SINCE the opening of ''The Bank & Trust Show,'' the current multimedia exhibition at ArtsWestchester's Arts Exchange, puzzled passers-by have been going into the gallery asking if it is closing. Their concern is provoked by a sign in one of the windows facing Mamaroneck Avenue, a hot-pink poster with bold charcoal lettering proclaiming ''Selling out to the bare walls.''
ArtsWestchester, of course, is not going anywhere. The poster, ''Bare Walls'' by Kim Beck, is one of 85 works that fill both floors of the Arts Exchange with responses to the current economic climate. Pieces by 21 artists address a range of related issues, from corporate greed and the pitfalls of consumerism to the fluctuating art market, redefined notions of trust and identity, and the lure of the quick fix. 
''The O' Woof Woof,'' for example, Kambui Olujimi's mixed-media installation, presents a showy raffle booth complete with gold drum and artist-designed tickets for a raffle that never takes place. The piece references a Southern black vernacular phrase, ''selling wolf tickets,'' which refers to someone who makes grand proclamations that do not come to fruition.
Visitors can watch the economy literally melting in Nora Ligorano and Marshall Reese's video of their 2008 work ''Main Street Meltdown,'' a large-scale ice sculpture of the word ''Economy'' that was placed in Foley Square in Manhattan. And they can answer Jennifer Dalton's question, ''Are Times of Recession Good for Art?,'' by selecting a chocolate coin from one of two gumball machines labeled ''Yes'' and ''No.'' The comparative levels of candy left in the machines will measure the public's opinion.
Actual money appears in various incarnations throughout the show. In Ray Beldner's ''Money Bag,'' three moneybags are sewn from paper currency and stuffed with sawdust; Mark Wagner created his intricate collages, ''Yield'' and ''Eeny Meeny Miney Moe,'' using finely sliced dollar bills. ''That's one of the subthemes,'' said Dara Meyers-Kingsley, who curated the show. ''Art as money, money as art.''
Another theme is the changed role of banks, particularly germane given that the exhibition occupies what was once the People's National Bank & Trust Company. ''We wanted to look at repurposed classical bank buildings like the one we're in now,'' Ms. Meyers-Kingsley said. So Michael Vahrenwald was commissioned by ArtsWestchester to photograph former and current banks in White Plains and New York City. The results -- 14 photographs -- are hanging in the main upstairs gallery. And among the pieces displayed inside the space's original vault, which was preserved in the building's renovation, are Diane Tuft's ''Safely Hidden'' photographs of ornate bank vaults in Manhattan.
''There's a lot to think about in this show,'' said Janet T. Langsam, ArtsWestchester's chief executive. ''It's not just, 'Oh my God, the economy is terrible.' It's about who we are, what we value, what's important in our lives.''
To further the conversation, and in recognition of April's recent designation as National Financial Literacy Month, ArtsWestchester is hosting a series of free financial education workshops for adults and children. Families visiting the exhibition can also pick up a self-guided ''Art Fun Finder'' work sheet, which, among other things, challenges them to find particular images in the show (like Queen Elizabeth II's face) and design their own currency.
While most of the pieces in ''The Bank & Trust Show'' reflect the current economic situation, several works were made earlier. Tom Otterness's sculptures ''Last Penny'' and ''Embezzler and Cop'' are from 1999. ''They're not about this moment of crisis,'' Ms. Meyers-Kingsley said, ''but his work has always commented on the capitalist system.''
Perhaps the most optimistic creation is ''Chance City,'' Jean Shin's monumental metropolis constructed with thousands of precariously balanced used lottery tickets. ''What holds it together is gravity and friction,'' Ms. Shin said, ''and desire, and care.''
She noted the dichotomy between society's work ethic and the impetus for playing the lottery. ''You spend a few dollars and you think you're going to win,'' she said.
'' 'Chance City,' '' she continued, ''is about negotiating risk. It's about people's sense of hope. There something wonderful in that.''
ADVICE IS FREE
''The Bank & Trust Show'' runs through June 4 at the Arts Exchange, 31 Mamaroneck Avenue, White Plains. (914) 428-4220; artswestchester.org. Open Tuesday through Saturday, noon to 5 p.m.; admission is free.
WORKSHOPS Free financial literacy sessions for adults include ''Loans and Mortgages: What You Need to Know,'' 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. on May 5, and ''Tips for Creating a Spending Plan and Managing Debt,'' 2 to 4 p.m. on May 7. ''Funny Money Workshop,'' for parents and children, is from 2 to 4 p.m. on May 21.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions last Sunday about an exhibition at ArtsWestchester's Arts Exchange comprising works that address the current economic climate, misstated, from a description by the exhibition's curator, the meaning of the title of a mixed-media installation by Kambui Olujimi. ''The O'Woof Woof'' is not ''Southern black vernacular meaning 'something you ain't gonna get.''' It is a reference to the phrase ''selling wolf tickets,'' which means making grand and threatening proclamations, none of which come to fruition.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CURRENCY: Works in ''The Bank & Trust Show,'' clockwise from above: the video ''Main Street Meltdown,'' by Nora Ligorano and Marshall Reese
''Chance City,'' by Jean Shin
''Bare Walls,'' by Kim Beck
and ''Embezzler and Cop,'' by Tom Otterness. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF NORA LIGORANO AND MARSHALL REESE
JEAN SHIN/ARTIST PENSION TRUST
KIM BECK/MIXED GREENS
 MARLBOROUGH GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); RECESSION (65%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO (61%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



519 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2359 words

HEADLINE: The God Squad

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
IN a vast, unheated room overlooking Cooper Square in the East Village, Guy Wasko tried to shake off the start-up jitters. It was late March, less than three weeks before the biggest day of his professional life, and there was still so much to do. A financial backer was wavering. The music was a big question mark: was it the right flavor for the neighborhood, funky enough, soulful enough? What about his hospitality team? The members had to be trained, the signs had to be right, the branding had to pop.
Mr. Wasko, 33, who has spiky brown hair and eight-gauge steel posts in both ears, hunched his shoulders inside his dark wool coat. He had left a large, well-financed organization in Pittsburgh to take on this challenge: starting an evangelical Christian church in the East Village, a neighborhood perceived by many as libertine.
Mr. Wasko did what he does every Wednesday at noon. For the next hour, he and a group of pastors prayed for their church, their neighborhood, their city. 
They prayed for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his decision-making processes. They prayed for teachers and homeless men and the titans of Wall Street. Without a New York accent among them, they kept it decidedly local.
''Father,'' said an Australian voice to Mr. Wasko's right, ''your kingdom come, your will be done, in New York as it is in heaven.''
Some people come to New York to be artists, bankers, architects, socialites. These men had come to start churches.
THE Australian voice belonged to Jon Tyson, 34, a former youth minister who, five years ago, started Trinity Grace Church, an independent evangelical congregation organized for an evangelical no-man's land. In 2006, as a new arrival from Orlando, Fla., Mr. Tyson held the first service on Easter, in a bar on the Upper West Side. Back then the congregation was called Origins, and Mr. Tyson wore his hair in a faux hawk and preached in T-shirts, trying to create a church for people who did not like church -- radical, crunchy, grounded both in Scripture and in the writings of the economist Richard Florida about a mobile, urban creative class.
In short order, the church expanded to Chelsea, Park Slope in Brooklyn and the Upper East Side, each branch led by a new arrival to the city. Along the way the church became Trinity Grace and Mr. Tyson added a necktie and more traditional liturgy -- New York, it seemed, preferred church to look more like church.
Five years later, it was Mr. Wasko's turn to start a fifth branch. Mr. Tyson liked the East Village because it was filled with young people new to the city, and because there were poor people the church could serve. Also, Mr. Tyson said, it was the home of his favorite cigar bar. Mr. Wasko fell for the neighborhood after seeing ''Rent.''
''We don't have a great strategic plan,'' Mr. Tyson said. ''We don't have an imperialistic vision.''
But the church and its expansion into the East Village highlight a concerted groundswell of middle-class, professional evangelicals in Manhattan, an area many churches once shunned as an epicenter of sin. It is the place, many now believe, to reach the people who influence the world.
Though much attention has been paid to New York's boom in immigrant churches, in recent decades the number of English-speaking evangelical churches south of Harlem has grown tenfold, to more than 100, said Tony Carnes, a researcher and founder of the online journal A Journey Through NYC Religions, who has studied New York churches since the 1970s. Without fanfare, the newcomers have created networks to pay for new churches and to form church-planting incubators, treating the city as a mission field.
Because the institutions are new, Mr. Carnes added, the city has become ''like a Silicon Valley of church-planting.''
''You can come here, try new ideas, fail and start again,'' he said. ''It's a hot area where failure isn't a disgrace.''
ON a Sunday afternoon in March, about 70 people gathered in a rented Ukrainian Assembly of God church on East Seventh Street for Mr. Wasko's third and final preview service. The pastor wore a tie for the occasion and preached a message directed at the neighborhood. ''What does it really look like to live as a Christian in this city?'' he asked.
For more than a year, he had recruited this core group, mainly from Trinity Grace's church in Chelsea, meeting with people over coffee or drinks to urge them to join not just the church but the neighborhood. Mr. Wasko was following a strategy taught by Redeemer Presbyterian Church, which opened in New York in 1989 and has fueled the city's evangelical renaissance. Most Sundays, Redeemer and its pastor, Timothy Keller, draw 5,000 people to five services in three locations; its church-planting arm, Redeemer City to City, has helped start 170 churches in 35 cities, according to its Web site.
In Mr. Wasko's sermon, current events and politics went unmentioned. Instead, he talked about a men's shelter where church members served once a month and about a young member's foster son who was just back from a detention center upstate. It was not enough, he said, for people just to attend church on Sundays.
''I want to see the spiritual climate of this neighborhood actually change,'' he preached. ''If we're not able to say the East Village and Lower East Side are better because of Trinity Grace Church, then I would say we've failed.''
One woman at the service was Karen Bowlby, 30, who moved to New York from Louisiana five years ago, just when Mr. Tyson was beginning Origins. Ms. Bowlby, who grew up in a Southern Baptist home, had developed a drinking problem and a habit of cutting herself. After she realized she was attracted to other women, she went to a Christian therapist who ''tried to pray it out of me,'' she said. ''My mind-set was that I could be fixed.''
On a recent morning at Think Coffee in the East Village, Ms. Bowlby recalled her first meeting with Mr. Tyson, when she was skeptical about church. At the time she was still not open about her sexuality. Church was a place that made her feel bad. Mr. Tyson gave her $100 to pay for head shots, photographic portraits, so she could start an acting career.
Sexual morality has been a divisive issue for some Christian churches, and a challenge for an evangelical church trying to move into the East Village. Trinity Grace considers all sex outside marriage sinful, and marriage as a union between a man and a woman. Mr. Wasko said that he had kissed three women before marrying his wife, and that he now regretted all of them. In its counseling for couples, the church subdivides physical affection into a 10-step ''purity ladder,'' moving from amorous looks to intercourse, and insists that couples who have already been intimate stop, and abstain until they are wed. Anything past kissing, Mr. Wasko said, ''is an on-ramp where things progress pretty quickly.''
Yet he has tried to tread softly concerning sexuality and abortion. Though he shares many beliefs with the religious right, Mr. Wasko said, he sees his duty as pastoring from next door, not condemning from on high.
Mr. Wasko said, ''The church disowned a lot of people during the AIDS epidemic,'' when some Christian leaders said the disease was God's punishment for homosexuals. ''I have a responsibility as a pastor in the East Village to apologize for that, even though I wasn't here, and to recognize the hurt and try to show a different way. It seems to me Jesus won a lot of people by loving them first.''
The topic made him visibly nervous, and he chose his words slowly. ''I'm not intentionally trying to scoot around hot-topic issues,'' he said. ''I'm not trying to hide from the gay issue or the abortion issue. Jesus had some hard teachings. It's prudent for us as an East Village church to know where we stand and what the Bible teaches, but not to lead with positions that polarize people. I want our church story to be so much more than where it stands on one hot-topic issue.''
When Ms. Bowlby met Mr. Tyson, she said: ''I wasn't looking for a gay-friendly church. I don't want to be told, 'Anything goes.' I want to be at a church that addresses the whole of who I am, not just my sexuality.'' What she found at Trinity Grace stunned her. ''People there just wanted to love me,'' she said.
Trinity Grace's approach marks a generational break from the religious right of leaders like Pat Robertson or Jerry Falwell, said Edmund Gibbs, a senior professor of church growth at Fuller Theological Seminary.
''They've been educated in a culture of respect and acceptance,'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''They would have their convictions but still be welcoming to gays and lesbians and people of other faiths. It's not a placard-waving generation.''
For Ms. Bowlby, navigating her sexuality and her faith has meant a journey with few guideposts, trying to discover what ''holiness looks like in a relationship that cannot be validated by marriage,'' she said. ''I can't tell you what that's going to look like. It's not easy. If I met someone and said, 'I want to wait and see if you're the person I want to spend the rest of my life with,' the gay community would look at me like I'm insane.''
FOUR days before the East Village church's opening, Sara Frazier, 23, led its youth group in a lesson about God's unconditional love. The teenagers here are not related to the adult congregants. Instead they are African-Americans and Latinos drawn from the housing projects and other poor sectors of the neighborhood. For Mr. Wasko, they are a bridge to the community he wants to serve, the struggling families who may or may not ever come for services. At times Mr. Wasko calls his church ''multigenerational and multiethnic,'' though it is not yet either; the youth ministry is his hope for making this a reality.
Miss Frazier told the youth group: ''When you have thoughts like 'I'm unlovable' or 'I'm stupid,' that is Satan trying to make you question your identity. That is a lie from Satan trying to get you to believe that you are not an adopted child of the creator of the universe.''
Miss Frazier, who grew up in Arlington, Tex., was a sophomore at New York University when she felt moved to live more as Jesus did. With a friend, she did research to find the neighborhood with the most people of the sort Jesus ministered to: prostitutes, the poor, criminals. Then they moved to Beekman Avenue, a violent street in the South Bronx, and opened their apartment to the children of the neighborhood. Now she brings a group from the South Bronx to Trinity Grace's weekly youth ministry and is on the church staff.
''The East Village fits so perfectly with what I'm doing in the South Bronx,'' Miss Frazier said. ''Me and all my white, well-educated friends from N.Y.U. are in my house with all these kids and Bloods and ex-cons and mothers. And that is what the East Village church will look like. The vision is that the cool hipsters and the people in the projects, this will be their home. That isn't the culture of our other churches.''
Sunday, April 10, was the big day. Earlier in the week, Mr. Wasko had found someone to run the Sunday children's program. And one of the church's backers, the Church Planting Network in Boca Raton, Fla., a 35-year-old organization that helped start Redeemer Presbyterian, among other churches, had come through with a $50,000 grant. (The church has a three-year budget of $900,000, drawn from the Trinity Grace organization, member donations, Redeemer and outside donors; Mr. Wasko raises funds for his own salary.)
Mr. Wasko paced alongside a pre-service buffet but was too nervous to eat. He wore a black hoodie and jeans. A tattoo on one forearm showed the handprints of his three daughters.
''What's happening in the East Village is happening with or without the Waskos or you,'' he told about two dozen core volunteers. ''The time is right. This is so much bigger than all of us, and the glory is all to the Father.'' He gathered momentum as he spoke. ''You're part of making history happen today.''
And then it happened. A few minutes after 5, with about 170 people in the pews, the church band -- known as the worship team -- began the congregation's inaugural service. A member named Amy Leigh Cutler read a poem to the body of believers.
''You blush like sunrise over Delancey,'' she said, ''and I am smitten by the Stanton Street of your smile.''
Mr. Wasko preached about the offensiveness of the image of the cross, because it offered salvation that people cannot earn. ''It's offensive to the intellectual elites because it says that wisdom isn't enough,'' he said.
THE Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.said the church was ''the most segregated major institution in America.''
Like many new evangelical congregations, Trinity Grace Church's is segregated by age as well as by race. Most members are white or Asian and under 35, and few have children. In a transient neighborhood like the East Village, this generational clustering is part of the church's appeal -- it offers community to unrooted newcomers -- but it is also a challenge for the church's longevity. When members start families, will they stay in the neighborhood?
For now, Mr. Wasko was willing to look past this question. The crowd was bigger than he had expected, with more unfamiliar faces. He had not advertised, but other pastors had spread the word on Twitter and Facebook, he said. Mr. Tyson, wearing a dark wool overcoat, stood watching from the back. A homeless man took a seat in the rear pew.
A week later, for the church's second service, the congregation would be about a third smaller, but at the moment Mr. Wasko was on a roll. He beamed at a family from Miss Frazier's Bronx group, sitting in the front pew. He quoted from Scripture and from the band Death Cab for Cutie.
For Mr. Wasko, this was a moment long in the making, but it was just a start. To change the neighborhood, he said, it would take ''9 or 10 thousand people living in the way of Jesus.'' He urged the congregants to join an evening group, a morning group, to come for weekly dinner at his apartment on Avenue D. And when the day was over, the pastors marked the occasion in the neighborhood -- at Mr. Tyson's favorite cigar bar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW FLOCK: Guy Wasko, above center, pastor of a new branch of Trinity Grace Church that opened this month in the East Village, praying with members of his congregation. (MB1)
PREP WORK: Guy Wasko said he was drawn to the East Village because it was filled with the kind of people his church, Trinity Grace, could serve. Top, Tyler Staton, center, a youth minister, worships with others.
 MEMBERS: Sara Frazier works in the church's youth ministry. At right, Karen Bowlby and a pastor, Jon Tyson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); MAYORS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



520 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Reformed School

 BODY:
How many of us would like to change places with Ramon Gonzalez? Very few, if any, I suspect. Yet, we keep blaming the teachers (and the administrators) for school failure. The real answer is student failure, not teacher failure, and most likely it is brought on by economics, parents and, mostly, peer pressure. Success begins at home. 
HARVEYDAD, Melbourne, Fla., 5:06 p.m., April 6, The 6th Floor, nytimes.com
Jonathan Mahler, in his otherwise well-balanced article on Bronx M.S. 233, just couldn't resist taking one little dig at those nasty union rules that are blocking educational reform, could he? But like so many other critics, the only rule he could cite as troublesome is the start time permitted by the United Federation of Teachers. Nice that the teachers vote to add 10 minutes to their workday every year, but the fact of the matter is that most teachers work well beyond any hours specified by union contracts.
As a retired teacher and new-teacher mentor, I can tell you unequivocally that the job is impossible to do without putting in plenty of extra hours. Those hours include far more than the time spent in the classroom with the kids, hours spent planning, grading, collaborating with other teachers, meeting with parents and more. And don't forget the extra hours spent coaching, tutoring, counseling students and sponsoring clubs, often uncompensated. The very idea that the many dedicated teachers in this country allow union rules to get in the way of good teaching is utterly insulting.
SARAH MCGREGOR, Denver, e-mail
I don't know how any Congress member who has spent the week fighting irrelevant ideological battles can read this story and not question why they come to work each day. Shouldn't their job be to help Ramon Gonzalez succeed?
MIKE KELLY, Bainbridge Island, Wash., e-mail

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF RIEDEL) GRAPHICS: ''A sleeping cat's brain. The Big Bang. Firefl ies. All illustrated in sound! A real ear-opener from the NYT: http://nyti.ms/eW9Edi'' @erixpix, April 11, Twitter
 ANALYTICS: Most-blogged Times magazine articles over last 12 months, from the15,000 blogs tracked by Blogrunner. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); LABOR UNIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



521 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: The Promise of Rapture For the High-Tech Elite

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Elizabeth Lesly Stevens writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
Ray Kurzweil, the influential technologist, came to the Palace of Fine Arts theater in San Francisco a few days ago to promote his vision of ''the Singularity.'' One attendee admiringly described it as ''the cult Rapture of the Nerds.''
It was a much more fitting prelude to the Easter holidays than Mr. Kurzweil would like to think. 
The Singularity, as he explains it, is a point in the near future when rapidly escalating technological advances will allow the most evolved humans (i.e., Mr. Kurzweil and his early-adopting followers) to incorporate technology into their bodies. Doing so will allow them to live hundreds of years and perhaps forever. Mr. Kurzweil wrote a book on the subject in 2005 and has been proselytizing ever since. The quick sell: Join me in outsmarting death.
This vision has obvious appeal to the Silicon Valley set, which holds sacred the belief that technology can solve most any problem; Google's co-founder Larry Page, and a long list of other tech celebrities, helped establish Singularity University, where rich or deep-thinking techies try to get an edge on the future.
New Agers, too, find something alluring in the idea of man transcending the mere self and attaching to a more grandiose vision of the human project.
Yet there is a flip side to the Singularity, a distinctly unmodern religiosity of the sort that often horrifies high-powered engineers and sophisticated citizens of the New Economy. Mr. Kurzweil offers the best of both worlds, as it were: an answer to existential questions and the ageless quest for immortality, wrapped in a package of science and innovation.
Michael Lindvall, a theologian and pastor of Brick Presbyterian Church in New York, pegs Mr. Kurzweil's Singularity dogma as a modern iteration of the Gnosticism prevalent in the second and third centuries.
Gnosticism ''was basically the idea that people save themselves by being smart,'' Mr. Lindvall said. ''By knowing these secret things, you would become cognoscenti, one of the few, elitist. Gnostics looked down on the hoi polloi Christian masses.''
Kevin Kelly, a co-founder of Wired magazine and an influential technology theorist himself, is not an adherent of the Singularity, but has spoken at length with Mr. Kurzweil about it and certainly sees the appeal.
''It attracts people who are scientific, rational, not religious,'' Mr. Kelly said, ''and it offers them the same comforting idea that heaven offers to someone more religious.''
Mr. Kurzweil said, via e-mail, that any comparison of Singularity to religion was ''incorrect.''
''Religions emerged in pre-scientific times'' he wrote, and are ''based on faith and not science.''
''We need to update our understanding of the destiny of our human-machine civilization based on what science now tells us,'' he added. ''The bottom line is that my thesis is based on a detailed scientific analysis of the history of technology and not on faith.''
Certainly, some of Mr. Kurzweil's adherents seemed overcome with religious fervor at his recent San Francisco appearance. ''His fans notoriously swarm the stage, like they are doing here!'' an event organizer barked at other staff members during a V.I.P. reception, warning them to be alert.
Mr. Kurzweil predicts the Singularity will occur in about 2040. Mr. Kelly suggests he so tirelessly promotes it in hopes of speeding things along. In 2040, Mr. Kurzweil would be 92. He obsesses over his diet and consumes 150 pills a day to stave off aging.
Thoughts of mortality produce ''profoundly sad and lonely feelings,'' Mr. Kurzweil said in ''Transcendent Man,'' a filmed accompaniment to his live presentation. ''So I go back to thinking about how I'm not going to die.'' (The German words ''kurz weil,'' by the way, translate into ''short time,'' so perhaps Mr. Kurzweil was predestined to obsess over ways to extend his life.)
Ken Marks, a local mathematician, was one of 700 or so who came to hear Mr. Kurzweil -- and he was skeptical about the whole thing. His objections were scientific, rather than theological, saying that the Singularity ignored the scientific principle of complementary pairs. Like space and time, or electric force and magnetic force, ''death and life are a complementary pair,'' Mr. Marks said. ''Death is intrinsic to life.''
''If you do not have death, you do not have life,'' he said.
Mr. Kelly suggests such scientific nitpicking wouldn't hold much sway with Mr. Kurzweil, though he, too, is a man of science.
''The remarkable thing about Ray is that he has no doubt,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''He has an answer for every objection. His certainty is unwavering.''
Is that faith, in the traditional sense? ''Exactly,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''He has faith.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CULTS & SECTS (77%); EASTER SEASON (71%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



522 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Poor Jane's Almanac

BYLINE: By JILL LEPORE. 
Jill Lepore, a professor of American history at Harvard, is the author of ''The Whites of Their Eyes: The Tea Party's Revolution and the Battle Over American History.''

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
THE House Budget Committee chairman, Paul D. Ryan, a Republican from Wisconsin, announced his party's new economic plan this month. It's called ''The Path to Prosperity,'' a nod to an essay Benjamin Franklin once wrote, called ''The Way to Wealth.''
Franklin, who's on the $100 bill, was the youngest of 10 sons. Nowhere on any legal tender is his sister Jane, the youngest of seven daughters; she never traveled the way to wealth. He was born in 1706, she in 1712. Their father was a Boston candle-maker, scraping by. Massachusetts' Poor Law required teaching boys to write; the mandate for girls ended at reading. Benny went to school for just two years; Jenny never went at all. 
Their lives tell an 18th-century tale of two Americas. Against poverty and ignorance, Franklin prevailed; his sister did not.
At 17, he ran away from home. At 15, she married: she was probably pregnant, as were, at the time, a third of all brides. She and her brother wrote to each other all their lives: they were each other's dearest friends. (He wrote more letters to her than to anyone.) His letters are learned, warm, funny, delightful; hers are misspelled, fretful and full of sorrow. ''Nothing but troble can you her from me,'' she warned. It's extraordinary that she could write at all.
''I have such a Poor Fackulty at making Leters,'' she confessed.
He would have none of it. ''Is there not a little Affectation in your Apology for the Incorrectness of your Writing?'' he teased. ''Perhaps it is rather fishing for commendation. You write better, in my Opinion, than most American Women.'' He was, sadly, right.
She had one child after another; her husband, a saddler named Edward Mecom, grew ill, and may have lost his mind, as, most certainly, did two of her sons. She struggled, and failed, to keep them out of debtors' prison, the almshouse, asylums. She took in boarders; she sewed bonnets. She had not a moment's rest.
And still, she thirsted for knowledge. ''I Read as much as I Dare,'' she confided to her brother. She once asked him for a copy of ''all the Political pieces'' he had ever written. ''I could as easily make a collection for you of all the past parings of my nails,'' he joked. He sent her what he could; she read it all. But there was no way out.
They left very different paper trails. He wrote the story of his life, stirring and wry -- the most important autobiography ever written. She wrote 14 pages of what she called her ''Book of Ages.'' It isn't an autobiography; it is, instead, a litany of grief, a history, in brief, of a life lived rags to rags.
It begins: ''Josiah Mecom their first Born on Wednesday June the 4: 1729 and Died May the 18-1730.'' Each page records another heartbreak. ''Died my Dear & Beloved Daughter Polly Mecom,'' she wrote one dreadful day, adding, ''The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away oh may I never be so Rebelious as to Refuse Acquesing & saying from my hart Blessed be the Name of the Lord.''
Jane Mecom had 12 children; she buried 11. And then, she put down her pen.
Today, two and a half centuries later, the nation's bookshelves sag with doorstop biographies of the founders; Tea Partiers dressed as Benjamin Franklin call for an end to social services for the poor; and the ''Path to Prosperity'' urges a return to ''America's founding ideals of liberty, limited government and equality under the rule of law.'' But the story of Jane Mecom is a reminder that, especially for women, escaping poverty has always depended on the opportunity for an education and the ability to control the size of their families.
The latest budget reduces financing for Planned Parenthood, for public education and even for the study of history. At one point in the budget discussion, all money for Teaching American History, a federal program offering training to K-12 history teachers, was eliminated. Are we never to study the book of ages?
On July 4, 1786, when Jane Mecom was 74, she thought about the path to prosperity. It was the nation's 10th birthday. She had been reading a book by the Englishman Richard Price. ''Dr Price,'' she wrote to her brother, ''thinks Thousands of Boyles Clarks and Newtons have Probably been lost to the world, and lived and died in Ignorance and meanness, merely for want of being Placed in favourable Situations, and Injoying Proper Advantages.'' And then she reminded her brother, gently, of something that he knew, and she knew, about the world in which they lived: ''Very few is able to beat thro all Impedements and Arive to any Grat Degre of superiority in Understanding.''
That world was changing. In 1789, Boston for the first time, allowed girls to attend public schools. The fertility rate began declining. The American Revolution made possible a new world, a world of fewer obstacles, a world with a promise of equality. That required -- and still requires -- sympathy.
Benjamin Franklin died in Philadelphia in 1790, at the age of 84. In his will, he left Jane the house in which she lived. And then he made another bequest, more lasting: he gave one hundred pounds to the public schools of Boston.
Jane Mecom died in that house in 1794. Later, during a political moment much like this one, when American politics was animated by self-serving invocations of the founders, her house was demolished to make room for a memorial to Paul Revere.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GREGORY NEMEC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WOMEN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



523 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Majestic Views, Ancient Culture And a Profit Fight

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
GRAND CANYON WEST, Ariz. -- Think of a Caribbean glass-bottomed boat hung out over the edge of the Grand Canyon and you have the idea behind the Skywalk, a modern, vertigo-inducing moneymaker that is drawing hundreds of thousands of people annually onto the Hualapai Indians' reservation to stare down beneath their feet at the distant canyon floor.
That the views are spectacular, no one would dispute. But a fierce legal battle has erupted over whether these are million-dollar views or whether they are considerably more valuable than that. The controversy threatens to slow the parade of tour buses, helicopters and planes that arrive daily and have put the Hualapai (pronounced WALL-uh-pie) reservation on the map.
Having a reservation a three-hour drive from the hustle and bustle of the Las Vegas Strip has proved both a curse and a blessing for the Hualapai, who control a million acres in northwestern Arizona but have long struggled to make ends meet. 
When the 2,100-member tribe, which has had unemployment rates of well over 50 percent in years past but has brought them steadily down, introduced casino gambling in the mid-1990s, the venture quickly went bust. Why gamble on Hualapai land, which is traversed by unpaved, tire-piercing roads, when there are games of chance galore just across the state line in Nevada?
But the Hualapais have something that Las Vegas does not -- namely, their pristine reservation, which creeps right up to the western edge of the Grand Canyon, includes a stretch of the Colorado River and provides vistas as awe-inspiring as any row of cherries lining up neatly on a slot machine.
To improve its gambit to lure more visitors from Vegas, the Hualapai teamed up with a tour operator named David Jin in 2003 to create the Skywalk, which extends 70 feet beyond the canyon rim and provides unmatched views of the floor thousands of feet below. Success, though, has brought controversy.
Before the Skywalk opened in 2007, 150,000 visitors in a good year would peer over the canyon edge on Hualapai land or raft down the tribe's portion of the Colorado. Last year, the number had more than quadrupled, with many of the visitors paying as much as $73 to slip on booties and edge their way out onto the horseshoe-shaped walkway of glass.
Canyon-side commercialism now abounds on Hualapai land. Helicopter tours begin at $129. At the fully stocked gift shop, arrows cost $20 and full-length Indian headdresses $2,000. A 90-minute horseback ride along the canyon rim costs $75. Revenues are in the millions of dollars, although exactly how much money is in dispute.
In exchange for the $30 million that Mr. Jin, who is Chinese-born and based in Las Vegas, spent to build the Skywalk, he was to get a portion of the Skywalk profits over 25 years and a cut-rate price for the many tourists he brings to the site from all over Asia. He accuses the Hualapai of shortchanging him and has gone to court -- both the tribal court in the tribal capital of Peach Springs, Ariz., and United States District Court in Phoenix -- to press the matter.
The Hualapai accuse him of not fulfilling his end of the bargain by leaving ancillary parts of the project unfinished.
The sparring, fueled by public relations consultants and prominent lawyers enlisted by each side, has largely been out of view of canyon visitors. They throw their hands in the air and pretend to be falling from the Skywalk as official photographers snap official shots. They tour a faux Indian village and watch performances by Hualapai elders, including Robert Tree Cody, an adopted son of Iron Eyes Cody, the non-Indian who portrayed one as an actor and shed a tear to lament the destruction of the natural world in an iconic 1970s TV commercial.
There was sadness among some Hualapai traditionalists when construction began at the edge of the canyon, which has long carried spiritual significance to those who live there. But that debate is now past, and plans are on the drawing board for even more bricks and mortar, including a major resort and a clubhouse for a planned canyon-side golf course.
But all those ideas seem like pipe dreams now as the Skywalk project, still not finished, finds itself stalled.
In court documents, Mr. Jin says tribal ''infighting and irregularities'' have complicated his dealings with the Hualapai, who he says have not paid him any profits since 2008. He said that the tribal tourism enterprise had gone through a succession of six chief executives since signing a deal with Mr. Jin in 2003.
Recently, the Hualapai removed their tribal chairman, Wilfred Whatoname, for unapproved disbursement of tribal funds. Several other tribal members have been removed for mishandling money, Mr. Jin's representatives say.
''They have problems with accounting,'' said Aimee Romero, a spokeswoman for Mr. Jin. ''They have problems with their books.''
Hualapai leaders deny that the tribe has mishandled the Skywalk money, which they say is going to the betterment of tribal members. ''It's insulting,'' Waylon Honga, a member of the Tribal Council, said with a scoff. ''It's really a low blow.''
Mr. Jin has gone to tribal court to try to force the Hualapai to enter into arbitration over the sharing of profits, and he sought a temporary restraining order in federal court aiming to prevent the Tribal Council from seizing his share of the Skywalk by using a recently passed eminent domain ordinance.
Mr. Jin failed to win the order, but a federal judge is now overseeing the dispute. Mr. Jin has hired Troy Eid, a former United States attorney in Colorado, to press his interests. Hualapai leaders have Paul Charlton, a former United States attorney in Arizona, on their side.
If visitors cast their eyes away from the canyon and at some of the half-finished projects around the Skywalk, they can see evidence of the legal standoff. The visitors' center remains an unfinished construction site with exposed walls and ceilings, yellow ''Caution'' tape in place and no functioning utilities.
Documents produced by Mr. Jin's representatives indicate that it was the Hualapais' responsibility to provide the utilities at the Skywalk site. Documents produced by the tribe suggest the opposite.
''Eminent domain is an option the tribe is weighing,'' Mr. Honga said. ''We don't want to go to that extent. We are hopeful that we can come to a resolution.''
In court papers, Mr. Jin estimates the Skywalk's worth, over the next two decades, at $100 million and wants to be reimbursed his share if the tribe chooses to void the contract. Hualapai leaders say Mr. Jin would be paid ''fair market value,'' but call his estimate of the Skywalk's worth absurdly high.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Skywalk draws thousands of tourists but is entangled in a revenue fight between the man who financed it and Hualapai Indians. Above, Soto Honga, a tribe member. (A16)
 The Skywalk, which juts over the Grand Canyon's edge, has quadrupled the number of visitors to the Hualapai reservation in Arizona. Delores Honga, above left, performs Indian dances, and tourists can take helicopter tours and horseback rides. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (77%); CHARTER BUS INDUSTRY (76%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (75%); GAMING (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (70%); HELICOPTERS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



524 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Exercising the Option To Balance the Budget

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
MONTPELIER, Vt. -- Technically, Vermont could play fast and loose in this season of fevered budget-chopping: it happens to be the only state with no budget-balancing requirement.
But Vermont, it turns out, is a fiscal goody two-shoes.
This spring, the Democratic-controlled Legislature toiled to close a projected $176 million gap in its $4.6 billion budget for the coming 2012 fiscal year with a combination of spending cuts and scattered tax increases. Gov. Peter Shumlin, a newly elected Democrat, said Vermont was so innately frugal that it had no use for a balanced-budget law. 
''Vermont has more common sense than the 49 other states,'' Mr. Shumlin said in a recent interview. ''We pay our bills, live within our means and hold firm to the tradition of not spending more than we take in.''
But not everyone here is pleased about the thriftiness, especially when it means cutting services. State Representative Paul N. Poirier, an independent, said his colleagues should have raised taxes on the wealthy instead of cutting programs for the elderly, mentally ill and developmentally disabled.
''In the last three years, our little state of Vermont has cut over $300 million in direct services to people,'' Mr. Poirier said. ''Why not ask people who have done well during this recession to step up and pay a little more?''
Some wealthy Vermonters agreed, going so far as to publicly ask Mr. Shumlin to raise their taxes. In a letter last month, about 50 of them -- including Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield, the Ben & Jerry's ice cream titans -- beseeched Mr. Shumlin to ''help meet basic human needs'' by imposing a temporary income tax surcharge on the top 5 percent of earners.
Both the House and the Senate rejected the proposal. Mr. Shumlin, too, said thanks but no thanks.
''I'm very grateful to them for their generosity,'' he said. ''But we're already asking a lot of our wealthy residents.''
Among other things, the planned cuts would reduce the number of substance abuse counselors in high schools and scale back programs that help elderly people stay in their homes and avoid moving to nursing homes. On Friday, the Senate approved a budget plan that would also increase the cigarette tax and raise taxes on health care providers.
State Senator Ann Cummings, the chairwoman of the Finance Committee, said that carrying over a deficit was unthinkable, partly because the state already anticipates a shortfall of $60 million in the budget for the 2013 fiscal year.
''It's like charging groceries,'' she said. ''Once you start, if you don't have a reasonable expectation that the money is going to be there, it's just a snowball going downhill.''
Mr. Poirier and others who think the state is being too prudent point to the early 1990s, when Gov. Richard A. Snelling, a Republican, addressed a budget crisis in part by carrying over deficits for several years and temporarily raising taxes on income and sales.
''It really was a boon to be able to do that,'' said Jack Hoffman, a senior policy analyst with the Public Assets Institute here, a liberal-leaning research group. ''We worked our way out of the hole over time instead of making these really drastic cuts.''
Mr. Hoffman is among those who expressed frustration that Mr. Shumlin and legislative leaders have refused even to borrow from the state's reserve fund, which currently holds about $55 million, to avoid service cuts.
''I don't know what they're waiting for,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''I worry that we're going to come through this recession, get to the other side and someone will proudly say, 'We never touched the rainy day fund.' ''
Others say that next year could be the biggest test of Vermont's flintiness because the last of the federal stimulus money that has helped states survive the recession is scheduled to disappear.
As for why Vermont has never passed a law or amended its Constitution to require a balanced budget -- something every other state has done, though some are looser than others in their definition of ''balanced'' -- even the state archivist, Gregory Sanford, said he had no clue.
''There apparently has not been much of a clamor for one,'' Mr. Sanford said in an e-mail after searching for evidence that anyone ever tried to propose a balanced-budget amendment here. Given the deep fiscal problems of some states that have such requirements, like New York and California, Mr. Sanford said, ''I am not sure what the value of such an amendment would be.''
Former Gov. Jim Douglas, who left office in January after eight years, theorized that Vermonters would actively resist such a check if it were suggested.
''Vermonters like to think of ourselves as able to make sound decisions,'' Mr. Douglas said, ''without the heavy hand of a constitution or government forcing it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We pay our bills, live within our means,'' said Gov. Peter Shumlin of Vermont, a Democrat who took office in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (71%); AGING (71%); NURSING HOMES (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); HEALTH CARE (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (82%)

PERSON: PETER SHUMLIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (92%) VERMONT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



525 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Triple Witching

BYLINE: By TOM De HAVEN. 
Tom De Haven is a novelist and a professor of English at Virginia Commonwealth University.

 BODY:
THE WEIRD SISTERS
By Eleanor Brown
320 pp. Amy Einhorn Books/G. P. Putnam's Sons. $24.95.
The three siblings who jointly narrate Eleanor Brown's likable but sometimes careless first novel, ''The Weird Sisters,'' seem incarnated from birth-order paradigms in a ''Sociology of the Family'' textbook. Rose, the oldest, is a faultfinding control freak. Bean, the middle sister, is a promiscuous attention seeker. Cordy, the youngest, simply refuses to grow up. Raised in the idyllic town of Barnwell, Ohio, daughters of loving if distracted parents (Dad lives, breathes and never stops quoting Shakespeare, which he teaches at the local college; Mom prepares delicious if unreliable meals and reads voraciously), the quarrelsome Andreas sisters, as full-grown women, have become self-reproaching, self-described ''failures.'' When their mother is told she has breast cancer, they move back to their childhood home, avowedly out of concern but really in search of safe haven. 
For Rose, a professor of mathematics, the news of her mother's illness comes almost as a relief: ''Thank God, a purpose. An excuse to be needed.'' It's also a good pretext for staying in Ohio, her comfort zone, rather than relocating to England, where her fiance has been offered a visiting professorship at Oxford. For each of her two sisters -- Cordy floating from place to place ''like a dandelion seed,'' Bean living in New York, caring only about ''clothes and designer martinis and how best to pick up and bed an investment banker'' -- the family emergency coincides with a personal crisis. Cordy has just learned that she's pregnant. (The father is a casual lover, already discarded.) Bean has been fired, though implausibly not arrested, for embezzling ''a great deal of money'' from the law firm where she has worked for several years.
But despite a promising if shopworn premise and the perceptive ways Brown illustrates just how quickly a homecoming can turn three independent women back into ''the girls,'' the ensuing plot seldom rises above the predictable and the romantic. Bean initiates a foolish affair with a much older married man, while resisting an attraction to the town's new Episcopal priest, a guy who wears ''jeans and a Superman T-shirt'' and who convinces her -- haughty Bean with her designer clothes and perfect nails! -- to volunteer with Habitat for Humanity. Cordy starts waitressing at the local coffee shop, whose scruffy and effusively sympathetic owner has had a crush on her since high school. Homebody Rose is persuaded, after much foot dragging, to spend a few days in England visiting her exasperated fiance and discovers that it's possible to exist, even be happy, away from her family.
Their mother's grave illness is given just enough attention (chemo, surgery, radiation, a life-threatening blood clot) to keep readers mindful of it, though never so much to distract us for too long from the sisters' fretful solipsism, which can sound like the overblown introduction to an old-time radio melodrama: ''Would Bean always be chasing one man or another, Cordy eternally chasing some shadow of a person she might never become, and Rose herself chasing some shadow of the ways things were Supposed to Be?'' You can almost hear the studio organ rumbling.
First-person-plural point of view notwithstanding, there's a dated quality to Brown's novel (in which hair is likely to be called tresses, books tomes and bars watering holes; where people pad softly, blink back tears, bark laughs) and a striking absence of contemporary references. The Andreas family and the town of Barnwell appear to exist in a predigital world without terrorism, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, a Great Recession, serious unemployment, even popular culture or politics of any kind. Frankly, I had difficulty figuring out if the story was supposed to be happening now, which I assume it is, or 10 years ago, or even 15. Again and again, flashbacks and back story are highly unlikely or flat-out wrong. Would a woman who is 33 in 2010 or '11 have bought a new 45-r.p.m. record when she was 16 -- in 1993 or '94? It's doubtful that someone born around 1980 would have calculated as a girl how old she'd be at the millennium and then reckon 20 as being ''ancient.'' Or that a middle-American small-town woman married in the late 1970s would have chosen to wear an ''oh-so-60s Empire-waisted minidress'' at her church wedding. And from experience, I can attest it's untrue that ''men were not typically present in the delivery room'' in 1977 or '78.
Historical time is fudged, generalized, while quotidian details, those small things that lend nuance, are kept vague. Cordy, we're told, has spent seven years following rock bands, yet not one is named (Phish maybe?), nor do we ever see her listening to music or playing the guitar she has lugged back home with her. The sisters are almost never without a book in hand, but we're rarely told just what they're reading. Dan Brown or Jennifer Egan? ''Under the Dome'' or ''The House of Mirth''? Knowing would make a difference. Not knowing does too.
Which is a shame, because ''The Weird Sisters'' can be entertaining, and Eleanor Brown's neurotic, floundering characters have the potential to be spirited company. But their world is one you can never entirely believe in. You can live inside it comfortably, listening and watching, with your attention never wandering -- but with your eyes sometimes, unpreventably, /rolling.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEAH HOROWITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (86%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); FAMILY (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (72%); SOCIOLOGY (57%); BREAST CANCER (55%); EMBEZZLEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (90%)

TITLE: Weird Sisters, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



526 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Susan Bergson, Adam Frick

 BODY:
Susan Elizabeth Bergson and Adam James Frick were married Saturday evening at Benachi House and Gardens in New Orleans. Matthew M. Mitchell, a Universal Life minister, officiated. 
The bride, 35, is an H.I.V./AIDS program manager in New Orleans for the Louisiana Public Health Institute, a nonprofit organization that helps manage and coordinate public health programs. She graduated from Skidmore and received a master's in public health from Tulane. She is a daughter of Jacqueline W. Bergson and Henry P. Bergson of Katonah, N.Y.
The bridegroom, 32, teaches English, history and economics at St. Augustine High School in New Orleans. He graduated from Notre Dame and received a master's in Latin American studies from Tulane. He is a son of Ann Ellerbrook of Indianapolis and Daniel R. Frick of Wawaka, Ind. The bridegroom is a stepson of Heidi J. Frick.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (67%); HISTORY (67%); AIDS & HIV (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (51%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



527 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Top Hamptons Sales Regained Traction

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The green light visible across the bay was long ago extinguished. But for decades, the great white house overlooking Long Island Sound on the tip of Sands Point stood as a reminder of an age of wealth and splendor forever captured in F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Great Gatsby.''
This month the house in Great Neck, on Long Island, said by many to have helped inspire the novel, was reduced to rubble, torn down after failing to sell for some $30 million after it was put on the market in 2009. 
But this is not a tale of recession woe. And it is certainly not a harbinger of a new aesthetic that prizes moderation above ostentation.
The storied home was razed to make room for development of five mansions, likely to cost more than $10 million apiece when they are completed.
While much of the country is still struggling to pull itself out of the worst economic downturn since Gatsby gave way to Tom Joad, the ultraluxury market along Long Island's sought-after coastlines has found its footing again.
That is especially true on the East End, where the spring selling season is under way. The major real estate brokerages recently released their first-quarter market assessments.
''The market for properties over $10 million has been quite strong over the last six months,'' said Rick Hoffman, a regional senior vice president of the Corcoran Group on the East End.
In the last 12 months, he said, agents at Corcoran have sold 24 properties for over $10 million, compared with only 13 such properties in the preceding 12 months. (Some of the most recent sales were not reflected in Corcoran's first-quarter report.)
Although the sales figures for the first quarter showed declines in the number of transactions and prices compared with last year, the market analysts at the major brokerage companies said that an unusual set of circumstances had caused wealthy buyers to change their usual patterns.
Specifically, fear that Bush-era tax cuts would not be maintained for the wealthiest Americans drove many buyers to close their deals before the end of 2010, said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm of Miller Samuel and the author of Prudential Douglas Elliman's quarterly report.
''We saw a huge surge of people rushing to close by the end of the year,'' Mr. Miller said. He pointed to the fact that in the last three months of 2010, he tracked 38 sales of properties costing more than $5 million, compared with only 15 sales of similarly priced properties in the first three months of 2010.
Analysts at the brokerage firm of Brown Harris Stevens also said sellers were motivated by concern that the tax cuts would expire.
''While these tax cuts were ultimately extended at the last minute,'' the report stated, ''many high-end sellers had already committed to selling in order to lock in lower capital gains rates.''
The Brown Harris report found that the average sales price in the Hamptons in the first three months of the year was $1.4 million, down 21 percent from the first quarter of 2010.
The other brokerage companies reported similar drops, which they said had been driven in part by the frenzy of activity at the end of the year.
At the very high end of the market, however, sellers still reported gains.
On the South Fork and Shelter Island, among the homes in the luxury market - defined as the top 10 percent of all residential sales - the average sales price rose 10 percent, to $7.51 million, from the same period last year, according to the Corcoran report. On the North Fork, the average price rose 15 percent, to $1.72 million.
With sellers feeling more confident, there has also been a steady stream of new inventory for sale.
The luxury market in the Hamptons has traditionally mirrored what happens in Manhattan, and even though Wall Street might have taken a beating in the last few years from a public relations standpoint, overall compensation continues to climb.
In any housing downturn, the secondary-home market tends to be hit the hardest, but that has not necessarily been the case in the Hamptons, Mr. Miller said. While prices at the upper echelon are some 20 percent off the stratospheric peak in 2007, they reflect those of the luxury market in Manhattan.
And for buyers with the means, there are a number of estates on the market that might make even Gatsby blush.
One is the 31,000-square-foot behemoth on Halsey Lane in Bridgehampton owned by the building magnate Joe Farrell.
Last summer, Mr. Farrell rented it out for a record $500,000 for two weeks in July; the rental fee was the highest on record for the East End of Long Island, brokers said.
Mr. Farrell has now listed the property for sale, with Brown Harris Stevens and Corcoran, at $49.5 million. The amenities on the 11.5-acre estate include a skateboard half-pipe; a rock-climbing wall; a media room with five plasma TVs; a squash and racquetball court; a two-lane bowling alley; a full bar and disco; and a spa with Jacuzzi, steam, sauna and massage areas.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHAT, NO GROCERY STORE? For $49.5 million, buyers of this 11.5-acre Bridgehampton estate will get extras like a bowling alley and a full spa facility. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM BROWN HARRIS STEVENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RECESSION (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WRITERS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



528 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: When There's No Such Thing as Too Much Information

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
INFORMATION overload is a headache for individuals and a huge challenge for businesses. Companies are swimming, if not drowning, in wave after wave of data -- from increasingly sophisticated computer tracking of shipments, sales, suppliers and customers, as well as e-mail, Web traffic and social-network comments. These Internet-era technologies, by one estimate, are doubling the quantity of business data every 1.2 years.
Yet the data explosion is also an enormous opportunity. In a modern economy, information should be the prime asset -- the raw material of new products and services, smarter decisions, competitive advantage for companies, and greater growth and productivity. 
Is there any real evidence of a ''data payoff'' across the corporate world? It has taken a while, but new research led by Erik Brynjolfsson, an economist at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, suggests that the beginnings are now visible.
Mr. Brynjolfsson and his colleagues, Lorin Hitt, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Heekyung Kim, a graduate student at M.I.T., studied 179 large companies. Those that adopted ''data-driven decision making'' achieved productivity that was 5 to 6 percent higher than could be explained by other factors, including how much the companies invested in technology, the researchers said.
In the study, based on a survey and follow-up interviews, data-driven decision making was defined not only by collecting data, but also by how it is used -- or not -- in making crucial decisions, like whether to create a new product or service. The central distinction, according to Mr. Brynjolfsson, is between decisions based mainly on ''data and analysis'' and on the traditional management arts of ''experience and intuition.''
A 5 percent increase in output and productivity, he says, is significant enough to separate winners from losers in most industries.
The companies that are guided by data analysis, Mr. Brynjolfsson says, are ''harbingers of a trend in how managers make decisions.''
''And it has huge implications for competitiveness and growth,'' he adds.
The research is not yet published, but it was presented at an academic conference this month. The conclusion that companies that rely heavily on data analysis are likely to outperform others is not new. Notably, Thomas H. Davenport, a professor of information technology and management at Babson College, has made that point, and his most recent book, with Jeanne G. Harris and Robert Morison, is ''Analytics at Work: Smarter Decisions, Better Results'' (Harvard Business Press, 2010).
And companies like Google, whose search and advertising business is based on exploiting and organizing online information, are testimony to the power of intelligent data sifting.
But the new research appears to be broader and to apply economic measurement to the impact of data-led decision making in a way not done before.
''To the best of our knowledge,'' Mr. Brynjolfsson says, ''this is the first quantitative evidence of the anecdotes we're been hearing about.''
Mr. Brynjolfsson emphasizes that the spread of such decision making is just getting started, even though the data surge began at least a decade ago. That pattern is familiar in history. The productivity payoff from a new technology comes only when people adopt new management skills and new ways of working.
The electric motor, for example, was introduced in the early 1880s. But that technology did not generate discernible productivity gains until the 1920s. It took that long for the use of motors to spread, and for businesses to reorganize work around the mass-production assembly line, the efficiency breakthrough of its day.
The story was much the same with computers. By 1987, the personal computer revolution was more than a decade old, when Robert M. Solow, an economist and Nobel laureate, dryly observed, ''You can see the computer age everywhere but in the productivity statistics.''
It was not until 1995 that productivity in the American economy really started to pick up. The Internet married computing to low-cost communications, opening the door to automating all kinds of commercial transactions. The gains continued through 2004, well after the dot-com bubble burst and investment in technology plummeted.
The technology absorption lag accounts for the delayed productivity benefits, observes Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University.
''It's never pure technology that makes the difference,'' Mr. Gordon says. ''It's reorganizing things -- how work is done. And technology does allow new forms of organization.''
Since 2004, productivity has slowed again. Historically, Mr. Gordon notes, productivity wanes when innovation based on fundamental new technologies runs out. The steam engine and railroads fueled the first industrial revolution, he says; the second was powered by electricity and the internal combustion engine. The Internet, according to Mr. Gordon, qualifies as the third industrial revolution -- but one that will prove far more short-lived than the previous two.
''I think we're seeing hints that we're running through inventions of the Internet revolution,'' he says.
STILL, the software industry is making a big bet that the data-driven decision making described in Mr. Brynjolfsson's research is the wave of the future. The drive to help companies find meaningful patterns in the data that engulfs them has created a fast-growing industry in what is known as ''business intelligence'' or ''analytics'' software and services. Major technology companies -- I.B.M., Oracle, SAP and Microsoft -- have collectively spent more than $25 billion buying up specialist companies in the field.
I.B.M. alone says it has spent $14 billion on 25 companies that focus on data analytics. That business now employs 8,000 consultants and 200 mathematicians. I.B.M. said last week that it expected its analytics business to grow to $16 billion by 2015.
''The biggest change facing corporations is the explosion of data,'' says David Grossman, a technology analyst at Stifel Nicolaus. ''The best business is in helping customers analyze and manage all that data.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES YANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); TRENDS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



529 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Surge In Corporate Profits

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.; E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
EARNINGS season got under way last week, and at first glance it seemed as if nothing had changed.
As was the case throughout 2010, a vast majority of companies that reported their results beat Wall Street's estimates -- and companies in commodity-oriented sectors like energy posted some gaudy numbers. And for the sixth quarter in a row, profits among companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index are on track to post double-digit growth.
But that's about where the similarities end. 
For starters, ''the easy comparisons are over,'' said John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet. He noted that earnings growth exceeded 30 percent for five consecutive quarters partly because profits had sunk so low in the miserable years that preceded them.
Today, ''earnings are pretty much back to where they were before the financial crisis,'' Mr. Butters said. S.& P., in fact, now estimates that S.& P. 500 operating profits will likely grow to a record $96.59 a share, up from the previous peak of $87.72 in 2006. Because there have already been such big gains, first-quarter profits are expected to have risen by a more modest 15 percent.
Moreover, many of the tail winds that drove earnings growth in 2010 -- like disinflation, low interest rates and aggressive cost-cutting that reduced jobs and bolstered productivity -- are either gone or nearing an end.
That's why market strategists say investors should look past the still fairly rosy profit expectations and focus instead on several important trends.
Start with revenue growth. This was a big concern last year, when analysts feared that much profit growth was a result of layoffs and other cost-cutting, instead of robust growth in demand.
Today, many strategists are looking at revenue in a different light. Global demand for goods and services has been strong, but a new fear has arisen. Many economists worry that increasing inflationary pressures -- particularly in energy and food costs -- might soon start to cut into consumer purchases.
''I'll be looking at revenue to see if there's any evidence of demand destruction caused by oil and other rising costs,'' said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago.
He noted that with the recent increase in fuel prices, gas purchases have jumped to nearly 12 percent of total retail sales. ''The last time that figure was persistently over 10 percent was in December 2007, near the beginning of the downturn,'' he said. ''So that's a concern.''
Since retail sales are crucial, Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston, wrote recently that he is monitoring whether commodity prices are hurting sales at businesses driven by consumer spending.
Already, revenue among consumer companies is expected to grow at around 5 to 6 percent, slower than the 8 percent forecast for the broad market, according to Thomson Reuters. If those numbers ratchet down even further, it could be a sign that rising food and gas costs are weighing down consumers.
Of course, if inflation is truly seeping into the economy, it won't affect only demand. It can also raise expenses, because rising energy and commodity prices would also increase the costs of raw materials for manufacturers.
So investors should also pay attention to trends in corporate profit margins. Mr. Ablin noted that gross margins for the S.& P. 500 have declined to 43.7 percent from 44.9 percent last August, about the time oil prices started to climb higher. Any signs of a further squeeze in margins could start to drive down profit forecasts for later in the year.
FINALLY, strategists say, it makes sense to pay close attention to the fortunes of technology companies during this earnings season.
Why? S.& P. 500 profits have recently been bolstered by fast-growing overseas sales. And tech companies derive a greater share of their sales from overseas than companies in other sectors.
The weakening dollar, which has lowered the price of goods sold abroad, has helped to improve those numbers. But much of that can be attributed to robust economic growth in emerging economies like China, strategists say.
Yet central banks in many emerging markets have begun to raise interest rates in an attempt to slow that growth and keep a lid on inflation. So if investors worry about how that might affect foreign demand, the tech sector may be the canary in the coal mine.
There's another reason to focus on tech: the effect of Japan's earthquake and tsunami on global sales and the supply chain. Because Japan is so important as both a buyer of tech products and a supplier of tech components, tech earnings could be affected first.
The software maker Adobe, for instance, was one of the first companies to cite Japan as a factor in its quarterly report. It lowered its guidance for second-quarter revenue by $50 million -- reducing its forecast for Japanese sales by one-third after citing disruptions in that important market.
For the broader market, Japan's problems alone aren't likely to threaten the earnings outlook. But add them to rising consumer prices that might crimp global demand, and profit growth could slow further. And stocks may not respond well to that kind of change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); TRENDS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); RETAIL SALES (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (80%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



530 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; NEW YORK AUTO SHOW DESIGN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: The Small Car as a Petit Four

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
ANYONE puzzled by the term ''premium small,'' which executives were tossing off at the New York International Auto Show last week, could find an example nearby. If you walked up to the Starbucks in the lobby of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center you were tempted by a subcompact, yet upscale, version of a cupcake: ''Red Velvet Whoopie Pie, 190 calories, $1.80.''
This year's show is full of auto-design Whoopie Pies, small vehicles with a high-style quotient. Rising gasoline prices, looming fuel-economy standards and changing demographics have created an industry consensus that sales of subcompact cars will increase. 
The smallest cars in automakers' lines are getting more attention from designers and offering more sweetness for the dollar. They are starting to look sportier and more sophisticated; in some cases, visual tricks make them seem larger. Subcompacts that were once cute or podlike, or both, now have taut character lines and expressive faces.
The raised crease in the side of the new Hyundai Accent and the growling face of the Kia Rio suggest how subcompacts are acquiring more visible character. The Nissan Versa, with side creases and wrap-around taillights like a larger model, showed another approach.
Alfonso E. Albaisa, vice president of Nissan Design America, worked on the new Versa design unveiled at the show. He said the Versa, with a starting price of less than $11,000, suggested the degree to which small cars were getting more attention from designers. ''First, it looks like someone spent more time on it,'' he said in an interview on the show floor. ''There is more style and sculpting of the surfaces.''
In addition, Mr. Albaisa said the new Versa was more stately. Although practical hatchbacks finally seem to be gaining popularity in America, ''people still like the formality and importance of a sedan,'' he said. Ford is already offering a new high-style Focus as a hatchback and a sedan. At the high-calorie end of the segment, in price if not in size, is one of the most significant cars at the show: the Mercedes-Benz Concept A-Class. Though only a design study, the Concept A-Class will be the basis for a radical update of the smallest car in the Mercedes line.
The original A-Class, which was introduced in Europe in 1997 and never offered in the United States, was a podlike model built on a novel architecture that set the passengers above the drivetrain, as do the Smart cars that are also part of the Mercedes family.
The next-generation A-Class, which will be imported, shares a more conventional platform with the somewhat larger B-Class and other models to be built on the same new front-drive architecture.
The exterior forms of the Concept A-Class pick up on the current Mercedes design language laid out by the company's design chief, Gorden Wagener: ''the combination of defined edges and free interplay.''
In a video released by the company, the Concept A's chief exterior designer, Mark Fetherston, called the style ''free form.'' He pointed out what he called the car's expressive stance, ''sexy, emotional shoulder'' and large wheel arches. ''It has strong positive and negative surfaces, defined by crisp and dynamic lines.''
The hood is surprisingly prominent for such a small car. One character line streams back from the front fender, a second swoops along the side and a third anchors the rear wheel of the two-door hatchback body.
The combination of taut lines and looping curves may remind some of the swoopy side of the BMW 1 Series. Both are small cars that seem to be trying to appear larger. Both enliven their forms with arcs and curves.
Mercedes says the Concept A-Class is inspired by wind, waves and stars. And it wears a bit of show-car bling: a grille with gleaming metallic points supported by almost invisible black stems -- like stars in a dark sky. The wheels have a similar pattern.
Precise detail is another facet of the new look: daytime running lamps made of 90 optical fibers are arranged in a winglike shape inside the headlamp, repeating the starry-sky motif.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STRIVERS: From top, wraparound taillamps of Nissan Versa, looping curves of Mercedes Concept A-Class, feisty face on Kia Rio. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SEDANS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



531 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3857 words

HEADLINE: Scenes From the Masquerade

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
This article was adapted from ''The Wizard of Lies: Bernie Madoff and the Death of Trust,'' by Diana B. Henriques, a reporter for The New York Times. The book, to be published on Tuesday by Times Books, analyzes Mr. Madoff's rise and fall.
IT is Wednesday, Dec. 12, 2007, the first day of the last year of Bernie Madoff's epic fraud.
The paperwork has been completed for a $9 million unsecured loan from his company to Peter Madoff, whose titles at the firm now include senior managing director, chief compliance officer, head of the options department and -- since a few years ago -- chief compliance officer for the private money management business that Bernie runs on the 17th floor of the distinctive oval office tower known as the Lipstick Building in Midtown Manhattan. 
Still, the Madoff firm is casual about titles -- Bernie almost seems to make them up as he goes along. Peter's primary title has always been ''Bernie's brother.'' And this latest loan, to finance a real estate investment, reflects this reality.
At most big firms these days, an executive's request for a $9 million insider loan with a gentle interest rate would be coldly and firmly denied as inappropriate. Despite growing worries in the financial markets, longtime employees of Bernie Madoff's firm have no trouble borrowing cash when they need it. Bernie rarely says no.
But this loan to Peter -- like all the insider loans that have come before and that will follow in succeeding months -- is sucking out cash that Bernie Madoff will need when the turmoil bearing down on Wall Street finally hits.
Tonight is the firm's holiday office party, and employees are enjoying the margaritas and Mexican beer at Rosa Mexicano, a popular bistro on First Avenue, a few blocks from the office.
The party might almost be a family reunion. Beyond his own family ties, Bernie Madoff's employees work with their fathers, their cousins, their nephews, their stepsons, even their neighbors. Some of them -- notably the staff on the 17th floor -- were hired right out of high school and have never worked anywhere else.
The traders may joke about Mr. Madoff's nearly obsessive demand that they keep their desks clear and tidy, and they may roll their eyes at his crude humor, but the firm still seems like a great place to work. Besides being generous with insider loans, Mr. Madoff also manages much of the money his relatives and other senior employees have saved: their deferred compensation and retirement savings. Although he is prickly and secretive about it, everyone knows that giant hedge funds and wealthy individuals are constantly jockeying to get him to manage their money. Employees feel lucky that he is looking out for them, too.
There may be a hint of edginess in the air tonight. Madoff traders exchange jokes with traders at big Wall Street outfits, and lately, behind the laughter, they all are hearing faint rumbles from the approaching storm. Perhaps it comforts them to reflect that Mr. Madoff has seen rough weather before -- from the shaky markets right after the terrorist attacks in 2001, all the way back to the glut of unfinished stock-trading paperwork that nearly choked Wall Street back offices in the late 1960s. He's seen it all and survived it all.
Wednesday, Jan. 23, 2008
On Mr. Madoff's calendar, this evening belongs to the New York City Center, the innovative cultural institution that he and his wife, Ruth, have supported for years and on whose board he has served for more than a decade. The center's performance tonight is a tango tour de force perfectly suited to its distinctive Moorish-style auditorium on West 55th Street. The faded building, constructed as a Shriners temple in 1923, needs an enormous amount of renovation work, and a major fund-raising campaign is already being planned.
As the Madoffs slip into their seats, Wall Street's growing anxiety about an approaching recession probably seems like a faint distraction. Mr. Madoff has at least $5 billion in the bank to sustain his Ponzi scheme, small bits of it contributed by people seated around him in this auditorium and giant slabs of it deposited by his global collection of hedge fund clients.
In theory, that cushion should see him through even a bad recession. But hedge funds hurtle into a trend, stampede out again and swerve at unexpected moments like a herd of wild beasts. If they all panic at some clap of economic thunder, Mr. Madoff will be lucky to avoid getting trampled. And if he goes down, many of the rich donors that City Center relies on will go down with him.
Thursday, Feb. 14
Mr. Madoff catches a night flight to Palm Beach, Fla., where hundreds of his investors live. Among them is Carl Shapiro, the retired garment industry entrepreneur who has been a client since the 1960s. Mr. Shapiro is celebrating his 95th birthday with a gala organized by his daughters. The Madoffs are invited.
The party the next evening is a head-turning event, even for Palm Beach. There are armloads of orchids, towers of roses, and caviar and Champagne in stunning abundance. The columnist Shannon Donnelly, the Palm Beach celebrity watcher, is on duty to collect the details, like the touching moment when Mr. Shapiro takes the microphone to serenade his wife of nearly 70 years. Ms. Donnelly notices 40 notable society names among the guests, including the owner of the New England Patriots football team and a well-known Chicago financier. She doesn't mention Bernie and Ruth Madoff -- their names are almost entirely absent from the local society archives in Palm Beach, even though they have owned a home on this thin, rich island for almost 15 years.
Many of the guests who will be mentioned in the column are Mr. Madoff's customers. It isn't so much that they trust Mr. Madoff -- if they know him at all, they probably sense the almost obsessive reserve that keeps most people at a distance. But they believe in Carl Shapiro, and Mr. Shapiro clearly believes in Mr. Madoff. How could you doubt Carl Shapiro's judgment?
The birthday party is a great success. After some quiet conversation with the Shapiros, Bernie and Ruth Madoff say their farewells and slip into the soft Palm Beach night for the short drive through the Breakers Hotel golf course and along the palm-lined Royal Poinciana Way to their home on North Lake Way.
As Palm Beach reckons such things, the Madoffs are newcomers. But Mr. Shapiro and his family have vouched for them -- Mr. Shapiro's son-in-law, Robert Jaffe, was listed by Mr. Madoff as a reference on his successful application to the Palm Beach Country Club. Before long, dozens of multimillionaire club members would be fishing for a chance to meet Bernie, to invest with Bernie.
Thursday, Feb. 21
Back in Manhattan, Bernie Madoff welcomes a British bank executive into his office on the 19th floor, two floors above his intensely private money management business. The banker works in London for HSBC, which handles the administrative paperwork for a growing roster of global hedge funds, including several that do business with Mr. Madoff.
This is not a social call. Some HSBC units have been recommending various Madoff feeder funds to their clients for years, starting with the Fairfield Sentry fund in 1999. A number of the bank's offshore hedge fund clients are invested with Mr. Madoff and are trusting his firm to hold their assets for safekeeping. Legally, that makes Mr. Madoff's firm the ''sub-custodian'' of the funds, since HSBC is accepting fees to serve as their official custodian.
As much as everyone trusts Mr. Madoff's reputation, this is an unusual arrangement, especially with the world in such a skittish mood. The banker needs to answer a simple question: Are the securities that the hedge funds have left in Mr. Madoff's custody actually there?
They aren't, of course. Bernie Madoff knows this -- and by now there is enough quiet gossip about him in the hedge fund world to suggest that what he already knows others are starting to suspect.
Even within HSBC, there have been skeptics. As early as 2001, a few bank executives were expressing doubt about Mr. Madoff. In September 2005, the bank asked the accounting firm KPMG to review the ''operational risks'' of Mr. Madoff's business. When the report came back in early 2006, it included a chilling list of what could go wrong, from misdirected trades to outright fraud.
But despite warnings and some internal doubts, the bank apparently felt that Mr. Madoff's stainless reputation and his standing with market regulators made such nightmare possibilities sound outlandish.
Still, next month, the bank will ask KPMG to do yet another assessment of the risks of doing business with Mr. Madoff. Perhaps this is what the banker has come to say. Or perhaps that examination will be ordered as a result of his visit today.
Despite that renewed scrutiny, HSBC will continue to provide administrative and custodial services to the funds that deal with Mr. Madoff for almost 10 more months.
Friday, March 14
After the stock market lurches to a sweaty close today, co-workers see Marcia Beth Cohn climb the oval staircase to the 19th floor and slump into the secretary's chair near Mr. Madoff's glass-walled office. Ms. Cohn is the president of Cohmad Securities, a tiny brokerage firm that shares office space with Mr. Madoff's firm but clears its small volume of stock trades through the investment bank Bear Stearns. She is a wiry, athletic woman with very short, dark auburn hair. She swivels toward Mr. Madoff, standing nearby, and asks with a shaky smile: ''O, wise man, what is going to happen to us?''
Earlier today, the Federal Reserve extended an emergency line of credit to Bear Stearns, which was caught in an old-fashioned ''run on the bank.'' It is the first time in history that the Fed had stepped in to rescue an investment firm. Rumors of unrecognized mortgage losses are shaking people's faith in other giant Wall Street firms, too. The Dow closed down nearly 200 points.
It is a day to frighten anyone, but Mr. Madoff is characteristically calm. He gives the small group around Ms. Cohn a quiet but reassuring lecture on the safety net that protects customer accounts on Wall Street. He is confident that Bear Stearns will find its footing once today's panic ebbs.
But federal regulators are already scrambling to find a buyer for Bear Stearns. From this weekend on, pension funds and other institutional investors will demand more information about the banks and brokers they deal with. There will be more questions put to Mr. Madoff, more answers demanded, and more nervous withdrawals.
It is an anxious, faintly terrifying day, but this is nowhere near as bad as it will get.
Friday, April 25
A partner at the Fairfield Greenwich Group, one of Mr. Madoff's earliest and biggest hedge fund investors, is studying the rate at which cash is pouring out of its flagship product, the Fairfield Sentry fund, whose $7 billion in assets are entirely invested with Mr. Madoff. The Fairfield Greenwich firm has quietly put itself up for sale, and the partner knows that any well-heeled buyer will scrutinize these numbers to calculate the firm's potential value.
An explanation will definitely be required, based on the numbers that the partner shares today in an e-mail to some of his colleagues. Redemption rates are high -- twice the hedge fund industry average. The partner can explain this. With monthly redemptions allowed on 15 days' notice, ''many investors use Sentry like a checking account,'' he notes. This contributes to the Sentry fund's appeal -- and to its vulnerability.
On the plus side, Mr. Madoff has capped how much money he will take from Fairfield Greenwich, so the redemptions will allow them to satisfy investors whom the fund had to turn away in the past. On the negative side, the redemption rate could dash the firm's hopes of finding a buyer.
In a more private e-mail a few minutes earlier, the partner had been more candid. The downside risk of not replacing the withdrawn cash ''is very significant,'' he wrote. It would reduce the firm's revenue from management fees and, thus, its value to a prospective buyer. The risk posed by the decline in the fund's cash is real, he continued, although he saw it as ''a less obvious risk with Madoff than the risk that he 'blows up' but a real one nevertheless.''
Other hedge funds, private bankers and wealthy individuals scattered around the world have invested billions of dollars in the Fairfield Sentry fund. If one of the risks these investors are taking is that Madoff will blow up, it clearly is not obvious to them.
Wednesday, May 14
Mr. Madoff looks quizzically at the two men who have been waiting in his 19th-floor conference room since 11 a.m., and gestures them into his adjacent office.
''I don't know why I agreed to see you,'' he says. He doesn't sound rude, just a little confused. He moves to his seat behind the desk as the visitors, a retired New Jersey businessman and his accountant, settle into the chairs across from him.
The businessman mentions the name of the wealthy Madoff investor who had made the introduction. Mr. Madoff looks blank, as if he does not recognize the name. He has thousands of investors -- but his visitors do not know that. They still think that Bernie Madoff is an exclusive, highly selective investment adviser. After all, the businessman made at least a half-dozen calls before finally getting this spot on Mr. Madoff's calendar.
''All right, as long as you're here . . . '' Mr. Madoff says, as he seems to relax slightly. He does not have a lot of time to spare, he adds -- he will be leaving the next day for the South of France. They trade some pleasantries about his vacation plans. He seems in no hurry to make a sales pitch; he shows no sign of wanting the businessman's money.
Suddenly the businessman asks, ''You didn't grow up wealthy, did you?''
Mr. Madoff smiles. He begins to recount his humble beginnings, the classic biography of the self-made man, something he has in common with his visitor.
Finally, they get down to the details.
What is his fee? There is no fee.
What is the minimum investment? Five million dollars.
''I'm not really prepared to put in that much at first,'' the businessman says. Typically he starts small with a new money manager, waiting for good results before committing as much as Mr. Madoff requires.
Mr. Madoff shrugs. ''Well, you can put in $2 million now, but by the end of the year you have to put in the rest.''
At that, the businessman's accountant knows this discussion is going nowhere and he turns his attention to his surroundings. There is not a single item on Mr. Madoff's desk -- not even a pencil. He notices the array of costly Roy Lichtenstein prints on the wall, all variations on the figure of a bull, Mr. Madoff's icon. He takes in Mr. Madoff's expensively cut dress shirt and handsome tie, his silver hair curling stylishly over his collar. Mr. Madoff truly seems indifferent to the outcome of the meeting.
The businessman continues to quiz him -- that's his style, as his accountant can attest. He pokes and prods until he gets answers.
Abruptly, Mr. Madoff becomes firmer. ''Listen,'' he says. ''You ask a lot of questions. I just want to make one thing clear: With all due respect, once you invest, you can't call me. You'll deal with someone else.''
The businessman smiles -- his accountant knows the comment has shut the door on any possibility of a deal. Perhaps that's what Mr. Madoff intended.
As much as he needs this man's cash, he cannot afford this relentless curiosity. After a few more pleasantries, they rise, exchange handshakes and walk toward the double glass doors leading to the elevators.
Friday, June 6
Today, the Madoff firm sends a check for just over $6 million to lawyers handling the purchase of a new gray-shingled house on a Nantucket beach by Mr. Madoff's older son, Mark, and his wife, Stephanie.
It is a beautiful property, larger and better situated than their former vacation home there, which they've just sold for $2.3 million. Located on the island's south shore, it has five bedrooms and baths, a gracious guest cottage, a pool and a hot tub, and a 180-degree view of salt grass, sand and ocean from its deep wraparound porch.
There is room for their 2-year-old daughter to play and for Mark's two older children, from his previous marriage, to come for summer visits full of bike rides, fishing trips and games.
Perhaps it isn't wise for Bernie Madoff to let Mark borrow so much cash right now. The trends are getting more worrisome. Some of Mr. Madoff's important feeder funds are withdrawing more than they're bringing in. Even the vast Fairfield Sentry hedge fund, that $7 billion behemoth, is losing cash.
But to refuse Mark would be almost impossible. How would he explain it, after all these years of being the family's bank? His two sons live the way the heirs of any successful hedge fund manager would expect to live.
Operating at the level that Mr. Madoff pretends he has reached -- with many billions in assets supposedly invested with him, with a net worth in the hundreds of millions, with three vacation homes of his own -- how could he explain that it simply wasn't a good time for him to part with a mere $6 million?
The younger Madoffs will close on the home on Monday, just in time for the sweet summer months on Nantucket.
Tuesday, July 15
Bernie Madoff is meeting with four visitors from Florida -- and he knows that this meeting could cost him as much as $33 million.
Three of the visitors are associated with the MorseLife Foundation in West Palm Beach, which operates one of the premier senior care facilities on Florida's golden east coast. The fourth is a financial planner in the West Palm Beach office of Merrill Lynch, who has recently expressed a few mild doubts to the foundation's board about its Madoff investment. His specific concern is that the foundation is putting too many of its eggs in Bernie's basket. In the spring, he recommended pulling out some of the Madoff money and investing it elsewhere.
The MorseLife Foundation, whose board is dominated by the same sort of wealthy philanthropists whom Mr. Madoff has cultivated everywhere, opened an account with him in 1995. Since then, the foundation has invested more than $11 million and has never made a withdrawal.
On this hot summer day, these visitors believe that MorseLife has about $33 million in that account, representing almost 60 percent of its total endowment.
There is nothing in the account, of course. It is just another small pipeline into Mr. Madoff's huge criminal enterprise. Mr. Madoff is caught in an increasingly dangerous market environment. This week, the stock of Fannie Mae, the once-impregnable mortgage giant, has been in free fall. Mr. Madoff knows that some of his big, nervous hedge-fund clients could soon demand their billions back. But steady long-term endowments like that of MorseLife have been his bread and butter for years. It will greatly magnify his worries if they start pulling money out, too.
No doubt he is determined to charm the man from Merrill Lynch. Mr. Madoff is relaxed and calm, as always, and he clearly succeeds in reassuring his visitors about his hedged, conservative investment strategy. Shortly after this meeting, the Merrill executive will reverse his position and accept the foundation's continuing investment with Mr. Madoff.
Still, it is an ominous victory. Not long ago, the question of whether the foundation should stay would never have come up, much less have made its way into Mr. Madoff's appointment book.
Sunday, Sept. 7
The weather is hot and humid, but a soft west wind is making the Long Island shore a little more comfortable. Mr. Madoff's calendar shows that his son Andrew and Andrew's children are to spend this weekend with him and Ruth at the beachfront home in Montauk.
Anyone who leaves the beach and switches on the television today will find the news almost unthinkable: the federal government is seizing control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two largest mortgage finance companies in the country. The bailout is the brainchild of the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and its price tag is rumored to be in excess of $25 billion.
The alternative could be far more costly. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have issued billions of dollars in publicly traded debt backed by home mortgages. Fears about the quality of those loans is driving investors out of the credit markets; money to finance new mortgages is drying up.
Andrew Madoff surely knows that this news will roil the markets tomorrow, and he and the other traders at his father's firm will probably have a grueling day.
Privately, Bernie Madoff knows that this news will further alarm his institutional investors, especially the overseas hedge funds he is fleecing through his Ponzi scheme. But no one without a crystal ball could know that this epic bailout -- detailed under outsize headlines in all the next day's newspapers and debated on television talk shows as an unwarranted and dangerous intrusion of the federal government into the private sector -- will soon look like a mere footnote to the calamity bearing down on Wall Street.
Monday, Sept. 15
September is the perfect time to visit the South of France. The air is sweet and fresh, the vineyards are glowing, and the sea is vivid and clear. Bernie and Ruth Madoff and some friends had come over on the company jet before the weekend. They plan to fly on to Italy after a few days here at the Madoffs' small stucco town house, tucked into the rear corner of a modest complex called Chateau des Pins.
But the news from New York is so alarming that the Madoffs and their guests probably just hover inside around the television, ignoring the sunshine on the hills above Cap d'Antibes. Lehman Brothers, one of the most fabled names on Wall Street, filed for bankruptcy this morning, after a frantic weekend of failed negotiations with bank regulators and government officials.
Treasury officials refused to throw a lifeline to Lehman; the Fed did not offer financial backing to attract a willing buyer. This time -- after Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- there was no bailout. It is the largest bankruptcy in American history.
Within hours, there are dire predictions that another Wall Street giant, the insurance firm American International Group, is sinking under the weight of its derivatives losses. Beset by fear and seeking capital, executives at Merrill Lynch are rushing into a shotgun wedding with Bank of America. The stock market seems to be in a death spiral, and even seasoned Wall Street veterans are shaken by the faint trace of panic they hear in the voices of customers, regulators and television commentators.
''Let's go home.'' It is the group's decision, really, not just Bernie's. Something deep in the bedrock of Wall Street is cracking, and the tremors can be felt even here.
There are calls to the airport to ready the jet. Bags are quickly packed. As the aircraft streaks up to its cruising altitude, perhaps Bernie Madoff takes one last look at the charming landscape dropping away beneath him. He is flying into the financial storm of the century; he will not fly out again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)(BU1)
Bernard Madoff in 1999. Ten years later, he would get a 150-year prison term for the largest Ponzi scheme in history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ruth Madoff said in a June 2009 statement that ''the man who committed this horrible fraud is not the man whom I have known for all these years.''
Mr. Madoff arriving at federal court in New York in March 2009. ''I knew what I was doing was wrong, indeed criminal,'' he told the courtroom that day. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The Madoffs' summer home in Montauk, N.Y., would be sold for more than the $8.75 million asking price, with proceeds going to Madoff victims. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MECEA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Some of the Madoffs' personal property, including the shoes above, was auctioned last November. A 10.5-carat diamond ring sold for $550,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN FICKIES/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (65%); FAMILY (61%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (52%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); BEER & ALE (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%)

TITLE: Wizard of Lies, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



532 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: On 11th Avenue, an Auto Boomtown

BYLINE: By JOTHAM SEDERSTROM

 BODY:
ENERGY efficiency will be top of mind -- not only from the cars in the showroom, but even in the building's air-conditioning system -- when the BMW of Manhattan dealership is upgraded next year.
And Wi-Fi will be available, next to a pastry and coffee bar, when a new Mercedes-Benz dealership opens a short walk down 11th Avenue, at West 54th Street, early next month. 
Between the BMW and Mercedes stores, an existing dealership has been renovated for Volkswagen and Audi. Showrooms for each brand showcase the latest trends in architectural design.
So when Peter Miles, executive vice president for operations at BMW of North America, presented his ideas for a 21st century dealership at a press conference last week, he could have been referring to any of several showrooms and service centers that have appeared along Manhattan's new Automobile Row.
''Our innovations and the growth of our business over the next decade are of key importance to us,'' Mr. Miles said. ''And New York City is a center of mobility, technology and innovation just as much as media and finance.''
Along 11th Avenue, foreign and domestic automakers are expanding, relocating and renovating top-dollar properties, even as the economy remains fickle in much of the country.
The reason, auto executives and real estate brokers say, has less to do with current economic conditions and more to do with New York City's identity as a global hub -- the notion that if a company can make it here, it can make it anywhere.
Much of the recent real estate activity along 11th Avenue has blossomed from discussions dating back to the peak of the market -- well before the closing of about 1,900 dealerships across the country since 2009, according to a tally by the National Automobile Dealers Association.
Manufacturers see the corridor as a grand stage for innovations, which, if successful, could one day appear in Albuquerque or Chattanooga.
''It's important for them to get their newest image or brand out there,'' said David McArdle, managing director of Cushman & Wakefield, who heads the firm's auto practice group in New York. ''All the dealers know this is the place to be.''
Besides BMW of North America, which last week announced plans for an environmentally friendly refurbishing of its showroom at 555 West 57th Street and construction of a stand-alone Mini dealership nearby, others are looking to the future.
Infiniti of Manhattan is expected to relocate from 608 West 57th Street, and Chrysler wants to expand nearby. Volkswagen and Audi reached a $125 million deal for their new joint operation on 55th Street two years ago.
Mercedes-Benz intends to open its glass-walled 333,000-square-foot dealership at 770 11th Avenue in May. The building has a repair shop with 72 service bays, visible from the customer lounge area through floor-to-ceiling windows.
Even in the age of technology, those service areas, experts say, make a difference.
''Even if dealerships weren't selling units, the ability to service cars helps the parent company sell,'' said Michael Laginestra, the vice president at CB Richard Ellis who, with his colleague Michael Geoghegan, worked with Mercedes-Benz to secure its new location.
But an entirely new facility is not a requirement for doing well. At the Manhattan Automobile Company, a Ford Motor-owned dealership at 787 11th Avenue, sales picked up last year after a slump in 2008. David Denby, a senior sales consultant, said that Land Rovers, which can cost more than $85,000, were their top seller since 2010.
''Right now, my business is as good as it was in 2007,'' Mr. Denby said. ''It's just amazing. The economy hasn't hurt us on 11th Avenue. It's really a phenomenon here in New York City.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRANSPARENT: A rendering of the service shop at the new Manhattan Mercedes dealership. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (54%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (54%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



533 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: The Time of Their Lives

BYLINE: By STACEY D'ERASMO. 
Stacey D'Erasmo's most recent novel is ''The Sky Below.''

 BODY:
WE HAD IT SO GOOD
By Linda Grant
325 pp. Scribner. $25.
''In a novel,'' E. M. Forster wrote, ''there is always a clock.'' In a life, too, of course, in all lives, there is always a clock. Every person, every generation, knows this, but it may be the case that the baby boomers are most keenly affronted by the passage of time, are most ripe for the comeuppance of aging and mortality. All that beautiful youth, all that freedom and hope. Didn't they know that they too would eventually compromise, wrinkle, suffer large and small defeats, seem foolish to their children? In her fifth novel, ''We Had It So Good,'' Linda Grant traces the force of time on a group of friends from their hippie days in the Oxford of the late 1960s all the way to the present, through the conventional and unconventional choices they make, the professionals they become, the children they have, the choices those children make. 
At the center of the novel is the marriage of Stephen and Andrea Newman. He's an American with a Jewish father and a Cuban mother who arrives in England as a Rhodes scholar, making the crossing by boat with one Bill Clinton. She's British, the smart, sensitive daughter of small-time hotel owners in Cornwall. When Stephen meets her at Oxford, she's ''a pre-Raphaelite painting: a tangle of tawny hair and ankle-length green velvet robe.'' In due course, they fall into bed, into something like love, into a marriage to keep him out of the American draft and then, unexpectedly, into a real marriage of obligations, children, a shared history, a life in London. Time passes.
Arranged around this marriage are Grace, Andrea's dear friend, a raving blond beauty with significant psychic scars; Ivan, an advertising man, formerly a freewheeling daredevil given to spouting Reichian theories of the orgone box; Andrea and Stephen's children and parents; their trysts and crushes; their discarded selves. Stephen is the restless one, prone to regret and ambivalence. Andrea, both more emotional and more practical, eventually becomes a therapist, subject to guilt and self-recrimination but also more aware than her husband of having been ''incredibly lucky'' in her life of comfort and achievement.
The novel proceeds chronologically, but in lapidary layers of perspective and incident connected by kinship more than dramatic cause and effect. One thing does lead to another, but waywardly, in a mosaic of conflicting impulses and ambivalent decisions. Their self-awareness creates both the appeal, and the wound, of these well-meaning characters. ''I keep thinking of all the people I've known in London,'' Stephen says to his children. ''If you saw them, you'd cry, because you'd understand for the first time how old you are, and that it's all long gone and we didn't treasure it.''
Grant treasures that lost youth, or at least values its beauty, but it can't be said that this is where her heart lies. Rose-colored glasses aren't her thing. She's appreciative of the Stephen who once made and sold acid and the Andrea who trailed around in ankle-skimming dresses, but her sensibility is somewhat more acerbic, and darker, than the rainbow-hued one of the Newmans' youth. Over the course of the novel, the bright moment that brought the couple together is reframed by the forward motion of history -- the stringent economic times of the 1970s, the conservatism of the 1980s, the war in Bosnia, terrorism, 9/11 and so on -- and by the unearthing of history's secrets, mostly in the form of injuries inflicted and suffered by the characters' parents.
Grant isn't a flower child. A hard-nosed realist, she sees around the intensities of private life to the geopolitical forces that subtend it. She can be merciless when accounting for what happens to the body as it ages. Sex happens in this novel, but it's a fairly low-wattage force; when it dims, no one makes too much of a fuss. Socially acceptable marriage isn't especially passionate, but the unmarried -- the Newmans' daughter, Andrea's closest friend, a mistress of Stephen's -- tend to be badly used by their socially unacceptable, passionate lovers if they're naive enough to have expectations of them.
Grant doesn't seem to feel any particular pressure to be ''inclusive'' in a post-60s sort of way. Her subject is straight, white, married people, inflected by modern Jewish history. Her London is devoid of anyone outside those categories; they don't even pass by on the street, which feels odd in a novel so concerned with worldliness. But accidents, disease, bombs, existential disappointment and betrayal arrive right on schedule, and to everyone's surprise. Stephen, who comes from Los Angeles, is particularly shocked that this is the way things go. ''How can I be 50,'' he reflects at one point, ''when I only just began?''
Reading Linda Grant (whose previous novel, ''The Clothes on Their Backs,'' was a finalist for the Man Booker Prize) is like spending time in the company of a smart, sharp-tongued friend with firm convictions. One appreciates her rigor and understanding of human suffering, her dislike of easy sentiment and her profound intelligence, while also wishing that her frame of reference was a bit more capacious. That reservation aside, ''We Had It So Good'' is pleasingly true in form, if not in spirit, to a turbulent era, about which it maintains a rueful skepticism. Grant's ability to gather up a pivotal scene with a loose hand, her grace in hopscotching through the decades, her freedom in moving among perspectives and the clear-eyed empathy she displays for her characters are wonderfully open-ended, never forced into narrative conventions or easy epiphanies. She is equally dextrous and authoritative in capturing the smallest moment of a character, alone in her own kitchen, engaged in a highly private act of self-laceration, and in sketching more inclusive scenes from war-torn Bosnia. Births and deaths, unions and ruptures, are scattered through these pages with both the intensity and the raggedness of real life.
Los Angeles and London, men and women, parents and children, friends and enemies, war and peace, all cohabit here, none more or less important or any less mysterious than any other. Everyone here feels real, sometimes more real than they might feel to themselves -- and that also feels true. Grant offers the melancholy pleasure of tolling the bells for a generation that is gradually fading away. Their bright colors, however fleeting or illusory, will be missed.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIVIENNE FLESHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); MARRIAGE (89%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (87%); ENGLAND (70%)

TITLE: We Had It So Good (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



534 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: A Crack In Wall St.'s Defenses

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TWO individual investors just scored a remarkable win against Citigroup.
A few weeks ago, the pair was awarded a total of $54.1 million in a securities arbitration case against the Smith Barney unit of the company -- the largest amount ever awarded to individuals in such a case, according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
This legal dust-up involved supposedly conservative municipal bond investments that Smith Barney had peddled to its wealthiest clients. The investments, which were big money-makers for Smith Barney, turned out to be anything but safe for the firm's clients: various portfolios lost between half and three-quarters of their value during the financial crisis.
Arbitrators rarely, if ever, discuss such cases, and the materials turned over by both sides are kept under wraps. But the outsize award, which included $17 million in punitive damages, is not the only thing that is noteworthy. The arbitrators appeared to reject -- resoundingly -- three defenses that Wall Street often employs when clients sue: 
No. 1: We didn't blow up your portfolio. The financial crisis did.
No. 2: If you're wealthy and sophisticated, you should have understood the risks.
And, No. 3, the most common defense of all: The prospectus warned that you could lose your shirt, so don't come crying to us if you do.
The investors who prevailed here are Gerald D. Hosier, 69, a wildly successful intellectual-property lawyer, and Jerry Murdock Jr., 52, a prosperous venture capitalist. Mr. Hosier and a trust he set up for his adult children received $48 million. Mr. Murdock got about $6 million.
The men, neighbors in Aspen, Colo., suffered $27 million in out-of-pocket losses on their investments. The big clunker was a municipal bond arbitrage strategy that their Smith Barney broker had characterized as safe, according to the men's complaint. The deal was supposedly designed to eke out more income than a simple portfolio of bonds would generate.
Not only did the men recover all their losses in the award, they also received damages. Mr. Hosier was awarded $15 million in punitive damages and $6.3 million in market-adjusted damages. The arbitrators also awarded $3 million for the men's legal fees.
Alexander Samuelson, a Citigroup spokesman, said: ''We are disappointed with the decision, which we believe is not supported by the facts or law.'' He noted that the bank had won a number of arbitrations involving such leveraged municipal bond strategies and said that the bank was considering its legal options in this case.
Mr. Hosier invested in the bank's municipal arbitrage strategy from 2002 through 2007. Requiring a minimum investment of $500,000, the deals employed the wonders of leverage, borrowing 8 to 10 times the value of the municipal bonds in an underlying portfolio to generate higher income. Calling the strategy conservative and ideal for investors' safe money, Smith Barney sold the trusts to wealthy investors.
But Smith Barney and its brokers were the prime beneficiaries of the strategy, which generated fees not only on the money that had been borrowed to juice the returns but also through the life of the investment. Clients paid 0.35 percent annually on the portfolios, plus a fee of 20 percent of all income earned by the investors above a 5.5 percent threshold each year.
Smith Barney's sales representatives kept 40 percent of the total fees paid by their investors, far exceeding what they would have earned selling ordinary municipal bonds. This arrangement encouraged Smith Barney to lever up the portfolios, Mr. Hosier's lawyers argued, putting the interests of their clients and those of Smith Barney at odds.
Investors who bought these deals agreed to lock up their money for two years and had to pay a substantial fee if they redeemed their holdings during the next three years.
Mr. Hosier was the single biggest buyer of Smith Barney's municipal arbitrage deals, with $26 million invested over time. But four different portfolios in which he invested raised almost $2 billion from all investors. All of the portfolios performed badly.
''Citigroup mismarketed this product to high-net-worth investors as an alternative to municipal bonds with a slightly higher return,'' said Philip M. Aidikoff, a lawyer at Aidikoff, Uhl & Bakhtiari in Beverly Hills, Calif., who represented Mr. Hosier and Mr. Murdock. ''Our clients never knowingly agreed to risk a significant loss of principal for a few extra points of interest.''
AS for Citigroup's three defenses, Mr. Aidikoff, along with the co-counsel Steven B. Caruso, at Maddox, Hargett & Caruso in New York, demonstrated that municipal bonds did not suffer catastrophic losses during the period. This squelched the bank's argument that the financial crisis did in the strategy.
Regarding their clients' sophistication and wealth, the lawyers agreed that both men were comfortable taking risks in certain circumstances, but not with the money they had given to the bank. ''Citigroup misled their wealthiest clients and then tried to blame them for relying on what they were told,'' Mr. Caruso said.
Arguing that the risks were laid out in the prospectus also seems to have run into a stone wall. Mr. Hosier's lawyers produced seven different notices on the topic published by Finra and its predecessor regulator since 1994, including a notice from 2009 that states: ''Providing risk disclosure in a prospectus or product description does not cure otherwise deficient disclosure in sales material, even if such sales material is accompanied or preceded by the prospectus.''
Mr. Hosier's victory is particularly noteworthy, given the nominal amounts typically extracted by regulators in cases against major banks. The punitive damages awarded to Mr. Hosier, for example, are more than triple the $4.45 million penalty levied against Wachovia Securities by the Securities and Exchange Commission this month in a suit that the S.E.C. settled with the bank. The S.E.C. accused the bank of selling about $10 million of mortgage-related securities to investors at above-market prices and at excessive markups. Wachovia, now part of Wells Fargo, neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing in the settlement.
The arbitrators in Mr. Hosier's case seemed keen to hold Wall Street accountable. And his win against Citigroup does not appear to be an anomaly. Since April 2010, his lawyer, Mr. Aidikoff, has argued 16 other arbitrations involving the same type of investment. Mr. Aidikoff and the lawyers who assist him have won every one.
In an interview, Mr. Hosier said the experience had opened his eyes to the disturbing ways of Wall Street.
''Instead of the financial world being the lubricant for business, they are out there manufacturing products with no utility whatsoever except for generating fees,'' he said. ''Somebody's got to do something about Wall Street. It is destroying the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arbitrators awarded Gerald D. Hosier and a trust he established $48 million in a case against Citigroup. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BONDS (89%); DAMAGES (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



535 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2859 words

HEADLINE: A Wild Mind Loose in Suburbia

BYLINE: By CARLO ROTELLA

 BODY:
A vine has invaded Shaun Tan's house in suburban Melbourne, Australia, through a previously unnoticed gap where the window of his studio doesn't quite meet the sill. Advancing along a curtain rod and sinking offshoots into the dark places behind his desk, the vine has overgrown Tan's workspace. He has to trim it back, because it keeps trying to grab things -- an electric pencil sharpener, unopened letters in his inbox. Recently he returned from a trip to find that it was exploring the bottom drawer of his filing cabinet, where he keeps new projects.
The vine had a chance to make some headway in February when Tan spent a week in Los Angeles for the Academy Awards, where he collected an Oscar as co-director of ''The Lost Thing,'' a short animated film based on one of his picture books. In it, a young man collecting bottle caps at the beach befriends a tentacled beast with a bright red metal shell and tries to find a home for it in a cheerless city where people ignore such anomalies. In his acceptance speech, Tan said, ''Our film is about a creature that nobody pays any attention to, so this is wonderfully ironic.'' 
''The Lost Thing'' is a kind of manifesto for Tan's way of looking at the world. Again and again, his stories introduce a lonely character in an alienating landscape and then, often by concentrating on some previously overlooked detail, transmute the feeling of isolation into something more like an artist's sensibility: a more purposeful and yet more playful state infused with an intensely observant appreciation of the secret beauty of life. In his book ''The Red Tree,'' a girl toils through a series of tableaus of crushing anomie -- including a particularly memorable one in which she trudges down the sidewalk in the shadow of a titanic gape-mouthed fish floating above her with dark gunk streaming from its eye -- but returns home at the end of the day to find her little room transformed by the miraculous appearance of a bright red tree. If you go back and look carefully, you can find a leaf from the red tree, unnoticed the first time through, in every one of the book's pictures. In ''The Arrival,'' a wordless monochrome immigrant fantasy that became an international best seller, a young man leaves an obscurely menacing Old Country and makes his way to a city that looks like a dream vision of New York. His eventual achievement of belonging in this strange new place, his arrival in full, depends upon attending closely to the details of fellow newcomers' stories, customs and advice.
Tan himself has arrived in a big way this year. A few weeks ago, a month after collecting his Oscar, he received the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award, the richest ($765,000) international prize for children's literature, adding to a string of past honors that include the Hugo and the World Fantasy awards. Already celebrated in his native Australia, he has emerged on the global stage at age 37 as a major visual storyteller. This spring, Arthur A. Levine, his American publisher, followed up ''The Arrival'' and a book of illustrated stories titled ''Tales From Outer Suburbia'' with ''Lost and Found,'' a volume collecting three of Tan's most popular Australian picture books. And he's in talks with Nick Wechsler, producer of ''The Road'' and ''Requiem for a Dream,'' about a feature-film adaptation of ''The Arrival.''
Tan creates picture books, but he's not a children's author, exactly; ''The Arrival'' is a masterpiece of the graphic-novel form, but he's not really a graphic novelist either. Chris van Allsburg, author of ''The Polar Express'' and other picture books that parents are happy to pore over repeatedly with their children, comes to mind as a peer, but the Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki, perhaps best known for ''Spirited Away,'' might make a better comparison. Like Miyazaki, Tan engages audiences across a wide range of age and sophistication. I teach ''The Arrival'' in a graduate seminar on the city in literature, and my wife teaches it in an undergraduate course on immigrant narratives, but our daughters enjoyed it when they were kindergartners, and one of them, now 10, has recently been stealing ''Lost and Found'' from my desk. Tan's low-key, open-ended, enigmatic stories are often about coming at a forbidding world from a fresh angle, making it strange on the way to making it one's own -- an experience that children share with immigrants and with artists.
''You discover how confounding the world is when you try to draw it,'' Tan says. ''You look at a car, and you try to see its car-ness, and you're like an immigrant to your own world. You don't have to travel to encounter weirdness. You wake up to it.''
THE COASTAL WESTERN AUSTRALIAN suburbia around Perth in which Tan grew up has a kind of Martian grandeur. Gigantic cloudscapes roil over a repeating pattern of developments, freeways, chain stores. Nick Stathopoulos, an illustrator and artist who has been a mentor to Tan, says: ''When it's hot, it's incredibly bleak. You don't see people on the street. You see this bakingly hot, empty landscape.'' Ann James, an author and illustrator of children's books who co-owns a gallery in Melbourne, says that ''Perth has even more pure light than other parts of the country.'' She sees that light and ''a lot of Australian color'' in Tan's pictures, as well as recurring elements of the Western Australian landscape: ''That horizon, that enormous sky, the clarity.''
In one story in ''Outer Suburbia,'' two young brothers walk along suburban roads past malls and streets identical except for their names, scaling multilevel parking garages to get their bearings and making notes in an exercise book. At sunset, they reach the limit of their map and, apparently, of the world. In the story's final image, they dangle their sneakered feet over the sheared-off edge of a road into a great pink-tinged void with puffy white clouds and a single black bird. Down below, water cascades from projecting drainage pipes into the unknown.
''When we were growing up, a lot of the area around Perth was still under development,'' Tan's older brother, Paul, told me. ''Now it's sprawl, but we were on the fringes then, and there was a lot of bush. We would walk a long way, all the way to the beach.'' Paul, who grew up to be a geologist, collected rocks. Shaun collected shells, among other things, and drew them.
Their father, an ethnic Chinese immigrant from Malaysia (their mother is a native Australian of Irish and English heritage), is an architect who modeled for his sons the virtue of precise attention to detail. Shaun showed a talent for drawing at an early age and built an identity around it. ''It was better to be known as the kid who could draw,'' he says, ''than as the short kid.'' Being known as a clever artist also gave him a way to belong in an overwhelmingly white school. ''Now there are lots of Asians and Eurasians where I live,'' he says, ''but back then in Hillarys,'' the suburb of Perth in which he grew up, ''we were practically the only ones.'' So he drew his way in from the margin.
His father gave him his first paying gig when he was 7 -- 20 cents for adding a single palm tree to an architectural sketch. After formal art training in high school and a college career devoted to critical study of fine art and literature, Tan became a freelance illustrator. Taking on every kind of work he could get, from diagrams of microscopes to sword-wielding warriors on the covers of fantasy novels, he gradually filtered elements of his own style from the techniques he sampled and from influences that ranged from Edward Hopper to Terry Gilliam to the designer Milton Glaser.
He also painted landscapes, and still does. He keeps many of the finished canvases stacked against the wall in his studio. He may exhibit them one day, he says, but painting has always been ''a largely private exercise'' for him, as opposed to illustration, which pays the bills. ''Illustrating is more about communicating specific ideas to a reader,'' he says, while ''painting is more like pure science, more about the act of painting.'' When he visited his brother in Norseman, a remote town in Western Australia, Shaun collected rocks, dirt and rusted gears and other half-buried industrial detritus left over from a century of mining. He applied these materials directly to the canvas to create a literal ''landscape painting'' that meditates on the region's economic and natural history -- and on painting a landscape.
Tan's on-the-job training as an illustrator and his experiments as a painter led to a mature style that developed in a series of celebrated picture books. The breakthrough came in 1998 with ''The Rabbits,'' an allegory of the colonization of Australia written by John Marsden. Tan's rapacious, rectilinear rabbits, some with wheels for feet, are stuffed so tightly into their uniforms that their ears stick out straight backward like a sprung collar. The gently rounded indigenous creatures in their way don't stand a chance. It's a children's book, sort of, but with scenes of bloody battle and befouling of the land and a final image that runs against the grain of Marsden's bleak closing line (''Who will save us from the rabbits?''): a rabbit and an indigenous creature sit facing each other on a littered plain, perhaps tentatively beginning the process of mutual recognition.
''The Lost Thing'' followed in 2000, then ''The Red Tree'' (2001), ''The Arrival'' (2006) and ''Tales From Outer Suburbia'' (2008). Tan rapidly became a star in the Australian children's-book market and beyond. When I talked to prominent Australian illustrators and authors of children's books, Tan's colleagues and friends, some of them took the opportunity to joke about being jealous of his talent and fame. Ron Brooks said: ''When I first met him, maybe 10 years ago, I thought, This isn't fair; he's only 12. He's a quiet young man, very serious. At least 13 or 14 now.'' Nick Stathopoulos said: ''Shaun knows I hate him. I could have broken his fingers so many times. The one thing that gladdens my heart is that he's going bald.'' Short and slight enough to be mistaken for a boy from a distance, Tan looks a lot like the ethnically ambiguous immigrant hero of ''The Arrival.'' He has the same scattering of a few unruly hairs at the front of his neat part, the same quietly ambitious drive beneath a shy, modest manner.
When I asked Tan's peers what about his work struck them as particularly Australian, they pointed to his visual references to the Western Australian landscape, the historical imagination of ''The Rabbits,'' the Melbourne trams in ''The Lost Thing.'' Ann James argued that Australian children's literature takes more experimental chances than its more established American counterpart. ''We don't have this tradition on our shoulders telling us to do it that way,'' she said. ''Our children's-book industry has only grown up in the last 30 years,'' and the market is still small, ''so we're very willing to break new ground. And we're more willing to leave it up to the reader to work things out. It's often about what's unsaid and left out.''
WHEN I VISITED Tan at his oceanfront hotel in Santa Monica, Calif., the day before the Academy Awards ceremony, he was perhaps alone among the nominees in wondering out loud whether winning the Oscar would be a good thing. Discussions about a feature-film adaptation of ''The Arrival'' were under way before his nomination, and he was already well known in Hollywood (he consulted on ''Wall-E'' and ''Horton Hears a Who''), but an Oscar would undoubtedly bring more opportunities to make movies, more invitations to do things other than hang around at home and draw. ''I'm not dying to make a feature film,'' he said, ''which people around here can be surprised to hear. It's about money and therefore audience, and that's somewhat counterproductive for me. I kind of like not having to feel that the work's going to be successful. Money does buy you time, it's true, but I have time now.''
Being nominated for an Oscar had already taken him away from his routine as an artist. ''This has not been a very productive period,'' he said. What with travel, press appearances and meetings, he hadn't been doing much of the low-stakes sketching that drives his creativity. ''The Lost Thing,'' for instance, grew from a sketch of a hermit crab he made at the beach. Idly imagining what it would be like if the crab were huge, he drew a man next to it for scale, and the possibility of a relationship between the two figures became the germ of the book.
''There are two worlds that I move in as a creator,'' Tan said. ''One is my own, in my suburban surroundings with my cup of green tea, and it feels like nothing's really going on and nothing's consequential. Since I was a kid, that's when everything gets done.'' He and his wife, Inari Kiuru, a graphic designer and jewelry maker from Finland, lead a peaceful life in Brunswick, an inner suburb of Melbourne. They don't have children -- ''Haven't got to that bridge yet,'' Tan says -- and their time is their own. They work at home on their separate projects in a house they share with a yellow parrot named Diego and two budgies. They share an eye for neglected, out-of-the-way things, so their afternoon walks in the neighborhood can be ''transforming experiences,'' Kiuru told me in an e-mail. ''When the light changes, when something's fallen by the roadside in a particularly interesting way, when a fat cat chases a two-legged dog up a hill. . . .''
That's the artist's world, where Tan's sensibility can order his days and the work gets done. ''Then there's the social world,'' he said, ''and there's nothing more social than the Oscars. That makes me a little skeptical about film.'' Making a feature film would allow his sensibility to take new forms and extend its reach by commandeering some of the matchless resources that the movie industry usually devotes to reproducing well-tested formulas. But embarking on the project -- traveling, negotiating, delegating, compromising -- might well carry him away from the wellspring of that sensibility.
And making movies means collaborating with multiple authors, a change of pace for an artist who usually works alone. Tan worked with a very small crew on the movie of ''The Lost Thing,'' but making a feature would oblige him to reckon with many more potential muddiers of his clarity of vision. ''I wrote that book for $600 in a studio in Perth,'' he told me. It might be easier to see the overlooked, to collect lost things, when operating on that cottage-industry artistic scale.
He was also perhaps alone among Oscar nominees in preferring a book to his own filmed adaptation of it. ''I'm proud of the movie we made,'' he said, ''but, without being immodest, I think that book is perfect. The film is a powerful experience, but there's something about the book that nailed the slightly Asperger's quality of the city.''
Andrew Ruhemann, his co-director, pushed for more narrative drive, greater drama, but Tan wanted flat affect, a sense of nothing much happening, and he mostly got his way. After the young man in the movie finds an appropriate place for the lost thing, he fades back into workaday life, his sense of wonder eclipsed by mundane experience. The last we see of him, he's on a tram identical to all the others chugging across the cityscape, passing into a state of overlooking, of forgetting. So the movie is true to the book, but it has greater forward momentum just by virtue of being a film. Even with remote control in hand, the viewer doesn't dictate the duration of images the way a reader does. Picture books encourage Tan's kind of lingering, contemplative attention to detail.
Tan has turned down Hollywood before. During the five years that he worked on ''The Arrival,'' he declined an offer to be production designer on a major feature film. And he has already turned down a good offer for film rights to ''The Arrival,'' because he would have had to give up artistic control. But if he can bargain for the resources and authority to do it right, he'll be sorely tempted to take a lead role in adapting ''The Arrival.'' If he does, it will extend the logic of the book in at least one sense. Using live models, including children he ''borrowed'' from a nearby school, he shot video and photographic images that he compiled into a storyboard to guide him in drawing the book's hundreds of gorgeously meticulous pictures. He shot the footage in his garage, using a cheap video camera, empty boxes to simulate sets, lights from a hardware store and bedsheets to manage the sunlight. ''It ended up being all about lighting,'' he said, sounding like a guy who might find it interesting to direct a feature film.
For now, though, he's back home, working on a new picture book, tending the vine growing across his desk, settling back into the life that nourishes his sensibility. He seems to be keeping his recent triumphs in the perspective afforded by that vantage point. Shortly after he got back from Los Angeles, a photograph circulated among his friends of Diego the parrot biting Tan's Oscar on the head.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN STUDIO: Tan is most productive while maintaining a quiet routine at home, with inspirational photographs and sketches on the wall and a parrot named Diego. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIA MALA MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM26
MM27) DRAWINGS: Illustrations from five of Shaun Tan's stories: ''Our Expedition'' and ''Eric'' (from the collection ''Tales From Outer Suburbia'')
''The Red Tree'' and ''The Lost Thing'' (from the collection ''Lost & Found'')
and ''The Arrival.'' (MM24
MM25)
 ''THE ARRIVAL'' An international best seller, Tan's wordless story tells of an immigrant who leaves the Old Country for a dreamlike metropolis. (DRAWINGS BY SCHOLASTIC/ARTHUR A. LEVINE BOOKS) (MM29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); ANIMATED FILMS (68%); BESTSELLERS (68%); IMMIGRATION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (73%) AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



536 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: From a Crisis, Opportunity

BYLINE: By SUZANNE SHANK. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I GREW up in Savannah, Ga. When I was 10, I entered an essay contest on why I loved the city. It was a promotion for the opening of its convention center. I won for the elementary school category and appeared at the opening. Diahann Carroll was also part of the celebration. I still remember having butterflies in my stomach.
My high school guidance counselor steered me toward engineering because I excelled at math and science. Engineering grads were getting six to eight offers each, but by the time I graduated from Georgia Tech in 1983, job prospects had slowed. I turned down a job with a construction company after I got an offer from General Dynamics to work in Atlanta for its electric boat division. I worked on noise mitigation for submarines. 
I found I was more interested in management than pure engineering, so after two years I left to attend the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania for an M.B.A. Management courses, however, didn't captivate me. I was most comfortable in finance, with its mathematical answers that weren't open to case-study debate.
I started on Wall Street in August 1987. Black Monday occurred two months later, and large financial firms started laying people off. I learned that business is cyclical and that out of crisis comes opportunity. Over the next 10 years, I worked for several companies, including James J. Lowrey & Company, a financial advisory firm.
In 1996, Napoleon Brandford III and I were working together when Muriel Siebert, who owns a discount brokerage firm and was the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, approached us about starting a municipal finance firm together. Muriel and Napoleon asked me to be president and C.E.O. It has turned out to be a perfect role for me, working in tandem with Napoleon, the chairman.
Our company underwrites municipal bonds that cities issue to finance major infrastructure projects. Our industry has had a few great years despite the financial crisis of 2008. While some large firms downsized, we increased our staff by a third. In the first two months of this year, however, industry volume was less than half of what it was a year ago.
Last year, we were among the top 10 municipal finance firms in revenue, a first for a minority- and woman-owned company. Increasing our staff in 2008 helped fuel our growth.
Municipalities are struggling today as they deal with fiscal crises. But they're engaging in layoffs and cutting services in an attempt to balance their budgets. I believe that reports of possible enormous defaults are overstated. The municipal sector has been known for its safe investments. Lower-rated credit, in the nonrated or junk-bond range, and credit barely investment grade, are vulnerable; that's why these investments pay a higher yield.
In 2000, when working in Detroit for our company, I was co-founder of an internship program, the Detroit Summer Finance Institute, which exposes inner-city students to finance jobs. People often view the municipal finance sector as less glamorous than the corporate one. Young people, especially, don't always realize how rewarding work in this field can be. We have offices in 22 cities. I see the impact of our work in many cities -- from convention centers to highways to educational projects.
At a recent event, a couple of people who learned I was in finance wanted to sit next to me for personal investment advice. The fiscal crisis facing some municipalities had them worried about their portfolios. I've never been so in demand for investment advice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUZANNE SHANK: President and C.E.O. of Siebert Brandford Shank & Company, a municipal finance firm in New York. AGE: 49 RECENTLY READ: ''Freedom,'' by Jonathan Franzen STILL LEARNING: Her smartphone features (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOWRANI STUDIOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); BONDS (87%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); WOMEN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL BONDS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); MATHEMATICS (74%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (74%); MANAGER TRAINING (73%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (69%); NOISE POLLUTION (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (67%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011



537 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Fallout From a Poor Credit Score

BYLINE: By MARYANN HAGGERTY

 BODY:
IF you want to see how quickly you can ruin a great credit score, just skip a mortgage payment.
Lenders use credit scores to measure how you handle debt. The number you'll see most often is your FICO score. It runs from 300 to 850. The major credit reporting bureaus developed a rival, VantageScore, with scores from 501 to 990.
Missed mortgage payments, serious loan delinquencies, loan modifications, short sales, foreclosures and bankruptcies all drag down credit scores. Because a mortgage is such a big slice of anyone's credit profile, it carries more weight than other loans. Both FICO and VantageScore have studied and quantified those impacts. 
They reached similar conclusions: for people with near-perfect records, a single mortgage payment that's 30 days late reduces a credit score enough to hurt. For anyone, a short sale -- selling a home for less than the amount owed -- can be almost as destructive as a foreclosure.
In contrast, a loan modification -- when the lender approves new loan terms -- can have a ''very, very minimal'' effect, said Sarah Davies, the senior vice president for analytics at VantageScore. In some cases, the borrower's score might drop 10 or 15 points.
With a loan modification, said Joanne Gaskin, the director of global scoring solutions at FICO, ''the consumer does not have to go delinquent to get assistance.''
Modification horror stories abound; some borrowers have been told they can't be helped unless they've already missed payments. That doesn't have to be the case, said Josh Zinner, the co-director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, a New York City nonprofit company active in foreclosure prevention.
The government-backed Home Affordable Modification Program, known as HAMP, specifically permits modifications for borrowers who can document hardship like a job loss, Mr. Zinner said. ''What we advise people in New York to do'' he said, ''is reach out to a nonprofit loan counselor or to Legal Services in order to get a modification with a servicer.''
It's not a perfect solution -- HAMP has been criticized for not helping enough borrowers. There are plenty of paperwork hassles, and points in the process where credit scores are in peril.
Still, because of ''some really profound consequences'' to bad credit, modification is worth pursuing, he said. Employers increasingly check credit. Housing options may be limited. ''Virtually all landlords look at credit,'' he said, adding that getting a mortgage can be difficult. Car loan and credit card costs jump.
In a study last month, FICO looked at how choices would affect three hypothetical mortgage holders: One with a spotless 780 score; another with a good 720, who may have missed a couple of credit card payments three years ago; a third with a not-great, not-toxic 680, who has sometimes fallen seriously behind on credit cards or a car loan. (Most lenders consider poor credit about 650 and below, Ms. Gaskin said.)
30 days late: The gold-plated 780 drops to 670-690, the middling 720 becomes 630-650, and 680 is now 600-620. Effects are most significant for the strongest borrower. ''A continued progression is going to have less and less impact on a score,'' Ms. Gaskin said.
90 days late: This is seriously delinquent, and brings the onetime best borrower down to 650-670, the midlevel one to 610-630, and the weakest to 600-620.
Short sale, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or settlement, assuming the balance has been wiped out: The result is just a bit less serious. The 780 score deteriorates to 655-675; 720 to 605-625; 680 to 610-630.
Foreclosure, or short sale with a deficiency balance owed: For either, 780 is 620-640; 720 is 570-590; and 680 is 575-595.
At a certain point it might seem as if there was not much difference between bad and worse, but remember that the lower the score, the longer it takes to climb back.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DISMISSALS (62%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (92%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



538 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Big Cuts for Magnet Schools in Dallas Stir Conflict Over Spending on Education

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
DALLAS -- On a muggy afternoon in mid-April, Mary Ruiz, an animated 18-year-old, bounced through the air-conditioned corridors of her South Dallas high school.
''Excuse the mess,'' she said, brushing away a small scrap of paper in an otherwise spotless stairwell, giggling as she added, ''I'm acting like this is my house.''
Ms. Ruiz is a senior at the Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center's School of Health Professions, a magnet in the Dallas Independent School District. The Townview Center, named for the panorama of the downtown Dallas skyline visible from its north windows, houses six magnets, including programs for law, business and science.
Her school is at the heart of an identity crisis that has sent fissures through the state's second-largest district, pitting parents of magnet school students against an administration they view as unfriendly -- and sparking emotional debates about how scarce dollars should be spent during a time of financial reckoning throughout the state. 
The Dallas district resembles inner-city districts nationwide. Its enrollment consists overwhelmingly of minority students -- 68 percent are Hispanic; 26 percent are black. It is overwhelmingly poor -- 86 percent of its students qualify for free and reduced-price meal plans. And it serves some of the most difficult-to-reach children -- the state considers 66 percent of the Dallas district's students at risk for dropping out.
But its magnets are regarded among the nation's best public high schools. Townview's Talented and Gifted and Science and Engineering high schools have consistently ranked in Newsweek's top five public schools in the country since 2006, with the Talented and Gifted school first every year except one since then.
All of the Townview schools are rated as exemplary by the Texas Education Agency, something only 12 percent of public high schools in the state achieve. Alumni of the Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts, an exemplary-rated magnet not on Townview's campus, include Erykah Badu, Edie Brickell and Norah Jones.
Despite Townview's renown, in the Dallas school district's most recent budget projections, it stands to lose 27 percent of its full-time teachers. Booker T. Washington faces a 25 percent reduction. By contrast, other high schools in the district are losing an average of about 12 percent.
On Tuesday, Michael Hinojosa, the district's superintendent, announced that in order to reduce administrative overhead, Townview would also lose five of its seven principals.
For Townview parents, the disproportionate reductions show that Mr. Hinojosa has used the budget crunch to pare the schools he has never supported. But the superintendent and the parents of children at comprehensive high schools argue that it is high time the district distributed its resources more equitably.
Mr. Hinojosa said that the cuts were about fairness -- and that the district had long given more financing to its magnet schools.
''I'm not anti-magnet,'' he said. ''Our magnet schools are great, and we're very proud of them. But what keeps me awake at night are the students at the 22 other comprehensive high schools.''
Liz Velasquez, whose twin sons are juniors at Townview's law magnet, said Mr. Hinojosa's decision to cut staffing there only confirmed what she had long suspected. ''Many of us parents always knew he's not a fan of the magnet programs, especially Townview,'' she said. ''The budget crisis gives him the opportunity to chip away at the magnet program and have a good reason to do so.''
Magnet schools -- so named because they are intended to attract students regardless of where they live in a district -- came about in the 1960s as a method of curbing the de facto geographic segregation that occurred after Brown v. Board of Education. More recently, proponents of school reform have advanced magnet schools as a way to lure whites and middle-class blacks to urban districts.
The first of the Dallas magnets originated in the late '70s and early '80s. The order was not lifted until 2003, and the schools still struggle with their racially charged provenance.
''Some people think this is the elite place where white people in Dallas send their kids,'' said James Kipp, who has sons at Townview's Science and Engineering and Talented and Gifted magnets and is the president of the Parent Teacher Student Association at the School of Science and Engineering. He added, ''But these are primarily low-income, urban kids that are being given an extraordinary opportunity, and that's going to go away.''
The problem is that the 157,000-student district is filled primarily with low-income, urban children -- the vast majority of whom are not among the roughly 2,300 who attend Townview, whose demographics vary from the rest of the district. While economically disadvantaged students are a majority at Townview, about 60 percent, that is 17 percent less than the district as a whole. Ten percent are white, compared with 5 percent districtwide.
Mike Morath, who is running unopposed for a vacant seat on the district's board of trustees, said that magnet schools were taking the brunt of the budget cuts for a reason -- they have more to cut.
''It is quite evident that Townview is getting more money per kid than similarly sized comprehensive schools,'' he said.
He noted that magnet school parents were typically more engaged than those at traditional high schools -- but that should not mean, Mr. Morath said, that their children should get more resources. ''To the extent that we are essentially robbing from the poor to give to the more politically organized, that doesn't strike me as all that right,'' he said.
But Mr. Morath said that if the administration weakened the schools, it risked losing the last remnant of middle-class confidence in the district.
''We've seen middle-class parents leave D.I.S.D. in droves,'' he said, adding that the economically disadvantaged population in the district had grown to 86 percent from 75 percent in the past 10 years. ''To the extent you damage the magnets, you accelerate that trend, and you've got a real problem.''
When Ms. Velasquez realized the budget cuts could mean the loss of programs like debate and mock trial at the Townview law magnet, she said she started to look at whether she could afford private schools or if she could rent an apartment in Coppell, a Northwest Dallas suburb, during her sons' senior year. Even with the outcry from magnet parents, she said, she was not hopeful for a positive response from the school board or the superintendent.
''I still may have to rent that apartment in Coppell,'' she said.
Like Ms. Velasquez, Jill Cochran has twin sons who are juniors -- but they are at Woodrow Wilson, a comprehensive high school of about 1,600 students. She said Mr. Hinojosa was correctly looking at the ''big picture'' of cuts. But as president of the P.T.A. there, Ms. Cochran has organized parents to protest the staff reductions at schools across the districts, not just magnets.
''I don't want it to be us against them,'' she said. ''But I guess when it comes down to it, everybody's going to fight for their own campus. You're going to see everybody fight for what's going to affect their children.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students at Townview Center, a set of magnet schools facing cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART PALLEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGNET SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); GIFTED EDUCATION (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); BUDGET FORECASTS (60%); VISUAL ARTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



539 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LOOK; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: A BOOMTOWN OF SORTS

BYLINE: By TONY GERVINO

 BODY:
Nearly 10 years after the Taliban were driven from power in Afghanistan, the capital city of Kabul is a patchwork of the old and the remade. New construction, fueled by billions in U.S. dollars, takes place amid rampant unemployment, growing poverty, an influx of people from outside the city, political corruption and a failed banking system. ''It's a kind of Wild West scenario,'' says the photographer Simon Norfolk, whose pictures of Afghanistan, taken late in 2010, will be exhibited at the Tate Modern in London from May 6 to July 10. ''The whole city has become a mad dash to build.'' Norfolk sees the building boom as part of the U.S. exit strategy. ''It's like throwing money out of the back of helicopters in an effort to leave,'' he says. 
YEAR KABUL BECAME CAPITAL OF AFGHANISTAN: 1773
POPULATION OF KABUL: 3,043,532
PERCENTAGE OF AFGHANS WHO LIVE IN KABUL: 10
AMERICAN INVESTMENT IN AFGHANISTAN'S RECONSTRUCTION: MORE THAN $56 BILLION
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IN AFGHANISTAN: 35 PERCENT
FRAUDULENT LOANS MADE BY KABUL BANK, PROMPTING ITS CLOSURE: $850 MILLION

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Old Mikrorayon part of Kabul behind Ghazi Stadium. (MM41)
Fast Food: The Pizza Express restaurant next to the Kabul municipal bus garage and a mound of abandoned buses. (MM42-MM43)
City Limits: Clockwise from top left: One of a string of wedding halls, on the ring road next to the Kabul airport, where weddings feature light shows so extravagant the owners can't aff ord the electricity to run them every night
a home made of shipping containers, on the outskirts of Kabul, occupied by workers who cast blast-wall sections in concrete
one of the logistics businesses clustered along Jalalabad Road, where foreign miltary forces and international N.G.O.'s can obtain supplies
a bunker in the Wazir Akbar Khan neighborhood, which is home to many foreign embassies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMON NORFOLK) (MM44
 MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TALIBAN (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); HELICOPTERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



540 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; STEPPING UP . . . OR OUT APRIL 17 - 23; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 560 words

 BODY:
THE NEWSBud Selig, the commissioner of Major League Baseball, will appoint someone to oversee the Los Angeles Dodgers because of his ''deep concern'' about the franchise, once home to legends like Jackie Robinson, Duke Snider and Sandy Koufax.
BEHIND THE NEWS The team's owner, Frank McCourt, a Boston real estate developer, has burdened the Dodgers with more than $400 million in debt since taking control in 2004 and is embroiled in an ugly divorce. Sources close to Mr. Selig said he believed that Mr. McCourt mismanaged the team while enriching himself. Mr. Selig can terminate a franchise and push to force its sale under his ''best interests of baseball'' powers. 
THE NEWS A bipartisan group of six senators is trying to put together a plan to reduce the federal debt by $4 trillion.
BEHIND THE NEWS The so-called Gang of Six -- three Republicans and three Democrats -- includes Senators Richard J. Durbin, a progressive from Illinois, and Saxby Chambliss, above, a conservative from Georgia. If they can cut a deal, perhaps all of Washington can come together. For Republicans, it will mean accepting higher taxes and lower military spending; for Democrats, curbs on Medicare and Medicaid spending and tweaks to Social Security to avoid a shortfall in 2037. ''Are some people going to pay more taxes? You bet,'' Mr. Chambliss said.
THE NEWS Representative Michele Bachmann, a fierce critic of President Obama, said she believed that questions surrounding the validity of his birth certificate had been settled in his favor.
BEHIND THE NEWS Speculation about the authenticity of the president's Hawaiian birth certificate flared as Donald Trump and the ''birther movement'' sought to draw attention to the issue. Ms. Bachmann, a Republican from Minnesota and a potential presidential candidate, had not questioned Mr. Obama's citizenship. But she deemed herself satisfied when shown a copy of the president's certificate of live birth with a seal of the state of Hawaii. ''Well then,'' she said, ''that should settle it.''
THE NEWS Jose Ramon Machado, who fought by Fidel Castro's side during the revolution, took over the No. 2 job in Cuba's Communist Party.
BEHIND THE NEWS It was the most significant change to the party's leadership since the 1959 rebellion and the first time that someone other than the Castro brothers -- Fidel and Raul -- had been named to the post. Mr. Machado's ascension may also set the stage for their eventual successor. His appointment, at the party's first congress in 14 years, coincided with other changes opening the way for private enterprise. The actions were meant to pull the revolution, at 52, out of a midlife crisis that has led to a sinking economy.
THE NEWS Senator John Ensign of Nevada announced that he would resign, in the face of a high-profile ethics investigation related to his affair with the wife of a former top aide.
BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Ensign's resignation will take effect May 3, but that may not end the controversy. Mr. Ensign, a religious conservative, began his affair in 2007. Soon after, Mr. Ensign's parents gave the aide and his family $96,000. The Senate Ethics Committee, which was exploring whether the payment was an illegal contribution to buy the aide's silence, can still make a public statement. And it can make a referral to the Justice Department, asking it to consider criminal charges.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS
CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DESMOND BOYLAN/REUTERS
 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); MEDICARE (68%); MEDICAID (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (68%); FIDEL CASTRO (62%); DONALD TRUMP (56%); RICHARD DURBIN (53%); JOHN ENSIGN (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (53%); MICHELE BACHMANN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



541 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Fast Train To Nowhere

BYLINE: By RICHARD WHITE. 
Richard White, a professor of history at Stanford, is the author of the forthcoming ''Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America.''

 BODY:
Stanford, Calif.
IT is hard for liberals like me to find good news in the latest agreement to cut the federal budget, but there is at least one silver lining: subsidies for high-speed rail have been sharply reduced. Why is this good news?
In his State of the Union address, President Obama compared high-speed rail to the 19th-century transcontinental railroads as parallel examples of American innovation. I fear he may be right. 
For the country as a whole, the Pacific Railway Act of 1864 and subsequent legislation subsidizing the transcontinental railroads -- the lines that crossed the continent from the 98th meridian to the Pacific Coast -- were the worst laws money could buy. By encouraging dumb growth, those laws sacrificed public good for private gain, and Americans came to regret it.
It is not that either transcontinental railroads or high-speed railroads are always bad ideas. A compelling case can be made for high-speed rail between Boston and Washington, for example, but the administration proposes building high-speed lines in places where there is no demonstrated demand. In California, construction of the new high-speed rail line from San Francisco to San Diego will begin with a line from Borden to Corcoran in California's Central Valley. It is already being derided as the train to nowhere. The reduction of federal subsidies has not stopped the project, which now threatens to become a forlorn monument to hubris.
Proponents of the transcontinental railroads promised all kinds of benefits they did not deliver. They claimed that the railroads were needed to save the Union, but the Union was already saved before the first line was completed. The best Western farmlands would have been settled without the railroads; their impact on other lands was often environmentally disastrous. For three decades California commodities could move more cheaply, and virtually as quickly, by sea. The subsidies the railroads received enriched contractors and financiers, but nearly all the railroads went into receivership, some multiple times; the government rescued others.
As more astute members of Congress came to recognize, the subsidies were a mistake. One described the major drawback of a proposal for the government to guarantee bonds: ''If there be profit, the corporations may take it; if there be loss, the government must bear it.''
After 1872, the country turned against the subsidizing of large corporations. It was a little late. Fraud and failure left a legacy that would lead to four decades of government attempts to get back what had so carelessly been given away. In the 1890s, Congress was still trying to recover money from the Pacific Railway.
Yet here we are again. The Obama administration proposed a substantial subsidy, $53 billion over six years, to induce investors to take on risk that they are otherwise unwilling to assume. Such subsidies create what the economist Robert Fogel has called ''hothouse capitalism'': government assumes much of the risk, while private contractors and financiers take the profit.
As before, California has become the heartland for railroad dreams. California in the 1860s and 1870s needed a regional railway feeding the ports on San Francisco Bay, and today it needs better urban rail and improved freight systems. Instead, in the 1860s it got the Pacific Railway, and today it gets high-speed rail. And, as it did in the 1860s, California has sweetened the pot with subsidies of its own: a $9 billion bond issue. State law stipulates that the California High-Speed Rail Authority, which is planning, contracting for, and, eventually operating the system, will not get operational subsidies. It, not taxpayers, will pay its operating costs and its debts.
Those assurances are based on rosy and widely ridiculed ridership projections. Critics, the most trenchant of whom are part of the Community Coalition on High-Speed Rail, say that only two high-speed rail routes run without operating subsidies: Paris to Lyon and Osaka to Tokyo.
Without bond guarantees, private investors, which so far seem more prone to due diligence than the California High-Speed Rail Authority, have yet to put up money. The most astonishing thing is that even as financial problems force California to dismantle its social safety net, eviscerate its educational system, and watch its roads crumble, it has agreed on a plan for high-speed rail that demands substantial local subsidies and certainly will involve further concessions by the state to attract private investment.
It is as if a family, with one spouse out of work, unable to meet mortgage payments or school tuition, eagerly takes out a loan to buy an electric car after an uncle offers to share the cost. The catch is that there is no upper limit on the price, and the neighbors have to chip in. Nineteenth-century Americans would have grasped the analogy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (95%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



542 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Missing the Target

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BESCHLOSS. 
Michael Beschloss, the author, most recently, of ''Presidential Courage,'' is currently writing a history of war and the American presidency.

 BODY:
THE AGE OF AIRPOWER
By Martin van Creveld
Illustrated. 498 pp. PublicAffairs. $35.
When President George W. Bush launched his war against Saddam Hussein's Iraq with an incandescent burst of ''shock and awe,'' political commentators marveled at the seemingly magical impact of modern air power. Some forecast that, as with the Persian Gulf war of 1991 and the Kosovo war of 1999, airstrikes by the United States and its allies would do most of the work required for an early, absolute victory.
Well, 2003 was a very long time ago. As Martin van Creveld shows in this brisk, original and authoritative history, since its zenith during World War II, when two United States B-29s ended the global struggle by dropping their payloads on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the value of air power has largely fizzled. McGeorge Bundy observed in 1988, after his own harsh experience as an architect of the Vietnam War, that the ''surgical airstrike'' deserved its name because surgery is bloody, messy and never final. Van Creveld would emphatically agree, and ''The Age of Airpower'' demonstrates the difficulty of winning a modern war from the skies. 
It is not by accident that the author is so fascinated by aerial combat. He is a well-respected Israeli historian and strategist, and some of the most important milestones in his country's military history have to do with air power -- the quick pre-emptive strike against Egypt that won Israel the Six-Day War of 1967; the surprise attack of Yom Kippur 1973 by Egypt and Syria that gravely jeopardized the Jewish state; the 1976 hostage rescue at Entebbe, Uganda; the 1981 raid against Iraqi nuclear facilities at Osirak; and the similar raid against Syria in 2007.
Van Creveld traces aerial fighting machines back to 18th-century ballooning and to the Wright brothers, who, after lofting their ''flier'' at Kitty Hawk in 1903, shrewdly decided that the big money would be found not in passenger aircraft but warplanes. And indeed near the start of World War I, a French pilot flying near Paris could warn his country's generals that German troops were moving to the east. Since Britain, France and Germany owned most of the aircraft in that war, some of history's earliest air battles took place on the Western Front. But van Creveld believes that the biggest impact of air power in World War I was in bombing submarines.
Van Creveld acerbically notes that World War II began with Hermann /Goering, commander of Adolf Hitler's Luftwaffe, directing his pilots to strike only military targets, and effectively ended with the Enola Gay releasing history's deadliest weapon on the nonmilitary target of Hiroshima and immediately killing about 75,000 civilians. Van Creveld credits early Luftwaffe victories not to the number or quality of German planes but to a unified military command, good planning and the passion to expand the German Reich. Hitler's ''final conquest of England'' failed because British morale was too strong to break under repeated bombing and because the Royal Air Force downed so many Nazi planes that the Germans had to start attacking at night. This meant they had a much smaller chance of hitting their assigned targets. In America, President Franklin D. Roosevelt declared his resolve to build 50,000 warplanes -- a number that sounded reassuring until it was later revealed that Roosevelt had simply made it up.
Two moments in World War II were expected to prove the invincibility of military air power. Instead, they showed its limitations. Late in the struggle, American war planners oversaw the intense strategic bombing of German targets chosen to bring Hitler's regime to its knees. But many of the night bombers missed their targets; although 350,000 Germans were killed, Hitler and his government survived.
And in the spring of 1945, to forestall an Allied land invasion of Japan that might have doomed millions, Gen. Curtis LeMay sent B-29 firebombers over Tokyo and 63 other Japanese cities in the largest bombing campaign attempted to that time. By the summer, LeMay said that he had run out of targets. Much of Japan's war industry was destroyed, and perhaps half a million people killed, but the country's will to fight showed few signs of flagging.
Even before nuclear-equipped bombers gave way to nuclear-tipped ballistic missiles in the 1960s, the cold war hastened the warplane's decline. As van Creveld notes, during the entire 45-year conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union, not once did combat aircraft of the two countries directly fight each other as part of their own air forces (though Soviet pilots did fight Americans as part of the Chinese and North Korean air forces). The nuclear balance of terror dictated that air power's real use was restricted to waging war against countries that lacked the ultimate weapon. But even many of those conflicts showed that air power was no panacea. During the Korean War, the United States military, equipped with new jet bombers, eliminated almost all the enemy's railway traffic and rendered most of its military airfields useless -- with little apparent result. This reputedly led the Chinese leader, Mao Zedong, to doubt the impact of air power on ground combat, and Chinese warplanes played little part in his country's successful Korean offensive of 1950-51.
If only the champions of America's adventure in Indochina had absorbed the historical lessons of these earlier experiences. Perhaps Robert S. McNamara, defense secretary under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, had the least excuse for this neglect. Having helped to supervise the strategic bombing of Nazi Germany and Japan, he, of all people, should have known that Operation Rolling Thunder and his blueprint for the gradual escalation of bombing against North Vietnam would not make Ho Chi Minh and the Vietcong give up. (The United States ultimately employed more tonnage on the Vietnamese than all the bombs dropped in World War II.) Van Creveld might have added the telling fact that two of the most prominent early critics of the Vietnam War, Under Secretary of State George Ball and the Harvard economist John Kenneth Galbraith, had been part of a group that studied the effects of the strategic bombing of Germany. Unlike McNamara, they seem to have remembered its /frustrations.
Van Creveld does not quite say so -- he is more interested in military strategy than politics -- but the widespread faith of the American people and the American political class in air power's potential to win quick victories has been a dangerous delusion, especially when combined with the eagerness of presidents to plan military engagements that will be finished swiftly and with few casualties. Much-ballyhooed successes -- like bombing Saddam Hussein's armies out of Kuwait and helping to drive Slobodan Milosevic from power -- as well as minidramas like the 1975 rescue of the American cargo ship Mayaguezfrom the Khmer Rouge and the 1983 invasion of Grenada, have encouraged Americans to go on believing that our awe-inspiring air power will enable us to win major wars without paying a heavy price. As Iraq has most recently shown, it won't. I hope that this spring, van Creveld's timely book will remind NATO leaders supervising the bombing campaign in the Libyan civil war of how often in history we have watched air power lead unexpectedly to ground fighting on quicksand.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); WORLD WAR I (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (68%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); YOM KIPPUR (64%); HOSTAGE TAKING (63%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); EGYPT (92%); SYRIA (92%); KOSOVO (92%); UGANDA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); GERMANY (85%); FRANCE (74%); GULF STATES (73%)

TITLE: Age of Airpower, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



543 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: STIMULUS BY FED IS DISAPPOINTING, ECONOMISTS SAY

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve's experimental effort to spur a recovery by purchasing vast quantities of federal debt has pumped up the stock market, reduced the cost of American exports and allowed companies to borrow money at lower interest rates.
But most Americans are not feeling the difference, in part because those benefits have been surprisingly small. The latest estimates from economists, in fact, suggest that the pace of recovery from the global financial crisis has flagged since November, when the Fed started buying $600 billion in Treasury securities to push private dollars into investments that create jobs. 
As the Fed's policy-making board prepares to meet Tuesday and Wednesday -- after which the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will hold a news conference for the first time to explain its decisions to the public -- a broad range of economists say that the disappointing results show the limits of the central bank's ability to lift the nation from its economic malaise.
''It's good for stopping the fall, but for actually turning things around and driving the recovery, I just don't think monetary policy has that power,'' said Mark Thoma, a professor of economics at the University of Oregon, referring specifically to the bond-buying program.
Mr. Bernanke and his supporters say that the purchases have improved economic conditions, all but erasing fears of deflation, a pattern of falling prices that can delay purchases and stall growth. Inflation, which is beneficial in moderation, has climbed closer to healthy levels since the Fed started buying bonds.
''These actions had the expected effects on markets and are thereby providing significant support to job creation and the economy,'' Mr. Bernanke said in a February speech, an argument he has repeated frequently.
But growth remains slow, jobs remain scarce, and with the debt purchases scheduled to end in June, the Fed must now decide what comes next.
The Fed generally encourages growth by pushing down interest rates. In normal times, it reduces short-term interest rates, and the effects spread to other kinds of borrowing like corporate bonds and mortgage loans. But with short-term rates hovering near zero since December 2008, the Fed has tried to attack long-term rates directly by entering the market and offering to accept lower returns.
The Fed limited the program to $600 billion under considerable political pressure. While that sounds like a lot of money, the purchases have not even kept pace with the government's issuance of new debt, so in a sense the effort has amounted to treading water. And a growing body of research suggests that the Fed could have had a larger impact by spending more money on a broader range of debt, like mortgage bonds, as it did initially.
A vocal group of critics, meanwhile, argues that the Fed has already done far too much, amassing a portfolio of more than $2 trillion that may impede the central bank's ability to raise interest rates to curb inflation. Some of these critics view the rising price of oil and other commodities as harbingers of broader price increases.
''I wasn't a big fan of it in the first place,'' said Charles I. Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and one of the 10 members of the Fed's policy-making board. ''I didn't think it was going to have much of an impact, and it complicated the exit strategy. And what we've seen has not changed my mind.''
The Fed's decision to buy bonds, known as quantitative easing, emulated Japan's central bank, which started buying bonds in 2001 to break a deflationary cycle.
The American version worked well at first. From November 2008 to March 2010, the Fed bought more than $1.7 trillion in mortgage and Treasury bonds, holding down mortgage rates and reducing borrowing costs for well-regarded companies by about half a percentage point, according to several studies. That is an annual savings of $5 million on every $1 billion borrowed.
As the economy sputtered last summer, Mr. Bernanke indicated in an August speech that the Fed would start a second round of quantitative easing, soon nicknamed QE 2. The initial response was the same: Asset prices rose, interest rates fell, and the dollar declined in value.
But in addition to being smaller, and solely focused on Treasuries, there also was a problem of diminishing returns. The first round of purchases reduced the cost of borrowing by persuading skittish investors to accept lower risk premiums. With markets closer to normalcy, Mr. Bernanke warned in his August speech that it was not clear that the Fed would have comparable success in persuading investors to accept even lower rates of return.
''Such purchases seem likely to have their largest effects during periods of economic and financial stress,'' he said.
The Fed says that its expectations were tempered by these realities, but that the program nonetheless has lowered yields on long-term Treasury bonds by about 0.2 percentage point relative to the rates investors would have demanded in the Fed's absence. That is about the same impact the central bank might have achieved by lowering its benchmark rate 0.75 percentage point, which in normal times would be an aggressive move.
But some economists say the new program has had a more limited impact on the broader economy than would a traditional cut in short-term interest rates. The Fed predicted that investors would be forced to buy other kinds of debt, reducing rates for other borrowers. But the supply of Treasuries available to investors has grown since November, as issuance of new government debt outpaced the Fed's purchases.
A study published in February found that interest rates decreased, but only for companies with top credit ratings. ''Rates that are highly relevant for households and many corporations -- mortgage rates and rates on lower-grade corporate bonds -- were largely unaffected by the policy,'' wrote Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen, both finance professors at Northwestern University.
Another indication of its limited success: Borrowing has not grown significantly, suggesting that corporations -- which are sitting on record piles of cash -- are not yet seeing opportunities for new investments. Until they do, some economists argue that the Fed is pushing on a string.
''What has it done? It has eased credit conditions, it has pumped up the stock market, it has suppressed the dollar,'' said Mickey Levy, Bank of America's chief economist. ''But does the Fed think that buying Treasuries and bloating its balance sheet is really going to create permanent job increases?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); BONDS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



544 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; THE ROYAL WEDDING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for the Dress

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
WHEN Kate Middleton strides down the aisle at Westminster Abbey on Friday, millions of Americans watching at home will be transfixed by her gown.
Few more so than Don O'Neill.
Mr. O'Neill, the creative director of Theia, a bridal house in Manhattan, expects that Ms. Middleton's dress (or a much more affordable version of it) will be coveted by brides-to-be on this side of the Atlantic. So sure is he, in fact, that he has already designed, and plans to sell, a gown he thinks will emulate her choice. Slender and long-sleeved, its decorously scooped neckline encrusted with crystals and silver bullion thread, it will boast a five-foot train.
''We're calling it the Kate,'' Mr. O'Neill said. ''It's very precious, very regal and suited to a princess, if only in my head.''
Not every bridal designer is so farsighted -- or so brashly confident. But many believe that Ms. Middleton's dress, like the bouffant gown Princess Diana wore in 1981, will be a game changer, inspiring replicas or adaptations at every level of the marketplace, some within weeks or even days of its debut. 
''We're all holding our breath for it,'' said Janet Lyons-Brooks, the owner of Leontina Gowns, a bridal house in Imlay City, Mich., and its companion Web site, My Big Fat Beautiful Wedding. ''My factories are standing by.''
The tricky part, of course, is that no one knows what the dress they are poised to copy actually looks like. With the Great Event only days away, Ms. Middleton's gown remains a closely guarded secret, its designer's identity a mystery. (The latest rumor pegs Ms. Middleton herself as the creator.)
But that hasn't stopped dozens of bridal houses from marshaling reserves of sketch artists, pattern makers, lace manufacturers, cutters and embroiderers, all standing ready to make last-minute tweaks to existing gowns, or to copy the royal gown outright, funneling imitations into the market at warp speed.
Already retailers are fielding inquiries from customers wondering if, and when, a Kate-inspired gown will be available. ''We've had enough curiosity that we have decided we are going to pay close attention to the wedding,'' said Dan Rentillo, the vice president for design for David's Bridal, the national chain. He plans to have a prototype in the works by the following weekend.
Many are banking on the premise that Ms. Middleton will be influencing bridal trends for years, even decades, as did Princess Diana, whose dress is still inspiring knockoffs in the $2 billion bridal gown market. That gown, it should be noted, with its infanta dimensions and 25-foot train, drew its share of ridicule, better suited, some sniped, for a Disney princess.
Not that it mattered. ''Before Diana's wedding, you couldn't find a dress anywhere that was all billowy,'' said Susan Glick, the vice president for women's apparel for New York International Bridal Week, a trade organization. Afterward, Ms. Glick said, the market was glutted with voluminous look-alikes.
The gowns that Ms. Middleton's dress will loose on the market will no doubt be more subdued. Learned speculation based on royal etiquette (modest cut, no cleavage or bare arms, if you please) and the bride's taste predicts that this gown will be slender, flared, mermaid style, and low key. (The last a concession to the ailing British economy.)
Tradition dictates that brides order their gowns four to six months ahead, allowing plenty of time for unforeseen production or shipping delays and alterations. But that makes the royal couple's timing inconvenient for high wedding season in the United States.
Jane Wang, the owner of an upscale bridal house in Midtown Manhattan, is prepared to modify dresses already in her line to meet a projected demand, charging a rush fee of 15 percent of a retail price of roughly $3,000 to cut her delivery time from a customary 12 weeks to 4 to 6.
Mr. O'Neill of Theia is leaving nothing to chance. Should his house be besieged by last-minute orders for June brides, he will leap into the fray, shrinking his usual lead time to offer a style that is similar, though not identical, in as little as two to four weeks. His lace manufacturer in Rhode Island is on call, as are his embroiderers in India. ''They're going to hate me,'' he said. ''They'll have to do double and triple time to get all those waistlines and necklines stitched.''
''When that dress hits, we'll be right on it,'' said Jim Hjelm, a bridal designer in New York who designs for James Clifford by Mon Cheri. ''We'll be on the computer that afternoon, sending a sketch.'' The company's factory in China will return samples for approval within 24 hours, Mr. Hjelm said. Equipped, like its competitors, with high-tech computer programs, the factory can approximate a design from a sketch or a Web page, with no need to pull apart the seams of an actual garment.
''We'll probably gamble and have a dress or even three styles out before October,'' said Mr. Hjelm, for shipping to stores in February. ''But there are plenty of people who will have the dress within a day.''
Light in the Box, an Internet retailer, will submit a design almost instantaneously. ''Our online marketing team will start to prepare the visual materials needed for pushing the dress online overnight,'' said Steven Lin, a company spokesman. Assembling an actual garment will take about a month and shipping an additional three to eight days, he said -- well in time for mid- to late-June nuptials.
Even in the prom market, designers see potential. Seema Anand, whose company, Blue Plate, makes inexpensive runway-inspired clothes for stores like Macy's, Bloomingdale's and Forever 21, will offer knee-length prom-worthy variations in as little as three weeks
In the bridal industry, there has long has been precedent for speedy turnarounds. Mr. Hjelm, a veteran of the industry, recalled that when Grace Kelly married Prince Rainier of Monaco in 1956, ''by the end of that day they had a Grace Kelly look-alike in Filene's window in Boston.''
With its high neckline and ballroom skirt, Kelly's dress, made by the Hollywood costumer Helen Rose, inspired an avalanche of knockoffs.
As did Carolyn Bessette Kennedy's sliplike bias-cut gown in 1996, which, as Millie Martini Bratten, the editor in chief of Brides magazine, pointed out, became the quintessential wedding dress of the era.
Even Chelsea Clinton, who has never been known as a style setter, inspired a trend last year when she wore a Vera Wang strapless wedding gown, spawning rafts of copies.
The grande dame of bridal trendsetters was none less than Queen Victoria, whose choice of a white dress for her wedding to Prince Albert in 1840 established a precedent that has been honored ever since. ''These women were celebrities,'' said Ms. Glick of International Bridal Week, who went on to predict that, like the young women brandishing magazine tear sheets with photos of their favorite film stars, legions will be storming retailers next month, demanding Kate's dress. ''After all,'' Ms. Glick said, ''Kate Middleton is a celebrity, too.''
Not just any celebrity, of course. Her middle-class roots (her father is a former flight dispatcher, her mother was a flight attendant) lend her a Cinderella status that is in itself a potent emotional trump card. The millions of young women watching as she alights from her coach (or car) ''will get to see a real live girl become a princess,'' Ms. Martini Bratten said. ''What could be more powerful?''
Or more apt to launch a thousand looks?
Correction: May 8, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 24 about wedding dress designers trying to anticipate and copy the gown of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, omitted the name of the line for which Jim Hjelm designs. It is James Clifford by Mon Cheri, not Jim Hjelm. (Mr. Hjelm is no longer associated with the line that carries his name, which is owned by JLM Couture.) The article also referred incorrectly to United States laws on knockoffs of designer clothing. Clothing companies do not have to modify a design in any way before copying it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (ST1)
GUESSING: Shveta Kumra, top left, and Seema Anand of Blue Plate share ideas about gowns. Above, Don O'Neill with The Kate, the gown he was inspired to design. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KATE MIDDLETON'S WEDDING DRESS (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); RETAILERS (60%); LACE & WARP KNIT FABRIC MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: DAVID'S BRIDAL INC (51%)

PERSON: CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (91%); PRINCESS DIANA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



545 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: The Bipartisan March to Fiscal Madness

BYLINE: By DAVID A. STOCKMAN


HIGHLIGHT: David A. Stockman, a former Republican representative from Michigan, was the director of the Office of Management and Budget from 1981 to 1985.

 BODY:
Greenwich, Conn.
IT is obvious that the nation's desperate fiscal condition requires higher taxes on the middle class, not just the richest 2 percent. Likewise, entitlement reform requires means-testing the giant Social Security and Medicare programs, not merely squeezing the far smaller safety net in areas like Medicaid and food stamps.
Unfortunately, in proposing tax increases only for the very rich, President Obama has denied the first of these fiscal truths, while Representative Paul D. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, has contradicted the second by putting the entire burden of entitlement reform on the poor. The resulting squabble is not only deepening the fiscal stalemate, but also bringing us dangerously close to class war.
This lamentable prospect is deeply grounded in the policy-driven transformation of the economy during recent decades that has shifted income and wealth to the top of the economic ladder. While not the stated objective of policy, this reverse Robin Hood outcome cannot be gainsaid: the share of wealth held by the top 1 percent of households has risen to 35 percent from 21 percent since 1979, while their share of income has more than doubled to around 20 percent. 
The culprit here was the combination of ultralow rates of interest at the Federal Reserve and ultralow rates of taxation on capital gains. The former destroyed the nation's capital markets, fueling huge growth in household and business debt, serial asset bubbles and endless leveraged speculation in equities, commodities, currencies and other assets.
At the same time, the nearly untaxed windfall gains accrued to pure financial speculators, not the backyard inventors envisioned by the Republican-inspired capital-gains tax revolution of 1978. And they happened in an environment of essentially zero inflation, the opposite of the double-digit inflation that justified a lower tax rate on capital gains back then -- but which is now simply an obsolete tax subsidy to the rich.
In attacking the Bush tax cuts for the top 2 percent of taxpayers, the president is only incidentally addressing the deficit. The larger purpose is to assure the vast bulk of Americans left behind that they will be spared higher taxes -- even though entitlements make a tax increase unavoidable. Mr. Obama is thus playing the class-war card more aggressively than any Democrat since Franklin D. Roosevelt -- surpassing Harry S. Truman or John F. Kennedy when they attacked big business or Lyndon B. Johnson or Jimmy Carter when they posed as champions of the little guy.
On the other side, Representative Ryan fails to recognize that we are not in an era of old-time enterprise capitalism in which the gospel of low tax rates and incentives to create wealth might have had relevance. A quasi-bankrupt nation saddled with rampant casino capitalism on Wall Street and a disemboweled, offshored economy on Main Street requires practical and equitable ways to pay its bills.
Ingratiating himself with the neo-cons, Mr. Ryan has put the $700 billion defense and security budget off limits; and caving to pusillanimous Republican politicians, he also exempts $17 trillion of Social Security and Medicare spending over the next decade. What is left, then, is $7 trillion in baseline spending for Medicaid and the social safety net -- to which Mr. Ryan applies a meat cleaver, reducing outlays by $1.5 trillion, or 20 percent.
Trapped between the religion of low taxes and the reality of huge deficits, the Ryan plan appears to be an attack on the poor in order to coddle the rich. To the Democrats' invitation to class war, the Republicans have seemingly sent an R.S.V.P.
Washington's feckless drift into class war is based on the illusion that we have endless time to put our fiscal house in order. This has instilled a terrible budgetary habit whereby politicians continuously duck concrete but politically painful near-term savings in favor of gimmicks like freezes, caps and block grants that push purely paper cuts into the distant, foggy future. Mr. Ryan's plan gets to a balanced budget in the fiscal afterlife (i.e., the 2030s); the White House's tactic of accumulating small-fry deficit cuts over the enormous span of 12 years amounts to the same dodge.
Such fiscal jabberwocky ignores the fact that we have experienced a recession every five years or so for the last six decades; that the budget is now exposed to even more frequent and amplified cyclical turbulence amid the aftershocks of the financial crisis; and that the United States does not have a divine right to issue any amount of interim debt that suits the ideological convenience of the two parties.
Nevertheless, the Democrats are immobilized because Keynesians insist on kicking the budgetary can down the road until cyclical ''demand'' has in their estimation fully recovered, while Republicans sit on their hands because supply-siders insist on letting the deficit fester until tax cuts work their alleged revenue magic.
A generation ago, such spurious ideological conceits would never have taken root, because deficits had adverse consequences like rising interest rates or an outflow of monetary reserves.
But for decades now, the central banks of the world have been giving policymakers a false signal that sovereign debt is cheap and limitless. Functioning like monetary roach motels, central banks have become a place where Treasury bonds go in but never come out -- thereby causing bond prices to be far higher and interest yields much lower than would obtain in a market that wasn't rigged.
Indeed, the Fed and currency-pegging central banks in East Asia and the Persian Gulf have absorbed nearly all of Uncle Sam's multitrillion-dollar spree of debt issuance. Moreover, about $4.6 trillion, or more than half of all debt held by the public, is now sequestered in central banks -- paid for with printing-press money.
Even central banks cannot defy the canons of sound finance indefinitely, however. Japan will buy less Treasury paper as it turns inward to recover from the wrath of nature. Likewise, China will drastically curtail its currency pegging and related Treasury bond purchases in order to suppress the rip-roaring imported inflation and speculative bubbles now engulfing its domestic economy. And unless the Fed wants to ruin the value of the dollar, it will need to keep its promise to get out of the bond-buying business, too, when its second round of quantitative easing ends in June.
With the central banks no longer ready to buy, the Treasury market will once again be driven by real investors -- many of them likely to demand higher interest rates owing to the heightened fiscal risks recently highlighted by Standard & Poor's. Ominously, the biggest and baddest of these real investors, the quarter-trillion-dollar Pimco Total Return Fund, has already thrown down the gauntlet by selling Uncle Sam's paper short.
INTEREST rates have been falling for 30 years, but Pimco's short call could well mark a generational reversal. If so, rates will continue to rise, and the fiscal time frame will be abruptly foreshortened from the distant foggy future to the Treasury's borrowing needs in the here and now. Then the abject deficiencies of the dueling budget plans will be self-evident.
By 2014, for example, the Ryan plan does not save a dime from the $2.2 trillion baseline for Social Security, Medicare and national security spending. Then it extends all the Bush tax cuts at a cost of $350 billion while instructing the states to reduce spending for the poor by $100 billion and the Congress to slice domestic discretionary spending by 25 percent. That toxic brew is likely to find few takers -- even at a Mad Hatter's tea party.
The latest iteration of the Obama plan is little better. By 2014, it would generate $70 billion from taxing the rich and perhaps $30 billion from the president's belated call to re-examine our over-financed military but virtually nothing from freezes on domestic programs or from Medicare reimbursement reforms.
So the Ryan plan worsens our trillion-dollar structural deficit and the Obama plan amounts to small potatoes, at best. Worse, we are about to descend into class war because the Obama plan picks on the rich when it should be pushing tax increases for all, while the Ryan plan attacks the poor when it should be addressing middle-class entitlements and defense.
In the real world, however, the global bond market is already rumbling -- and around the corner, a fiscal conflagration surely lies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MEDICARE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); MEDICAID (57%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JIMMY CARTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



546 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 5982 words

HEADLINE: THE YOUNG MOTHER ABROAD

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT. 
This article is adapted from ''A Single Woman: The Untold Story of , Barack Obama's Mother,'' to be published next month.

 BODY:
The photograph showed the son, but my eye gravitated toward the mother. That first glimpse was surprising -- the stout, pale-skinned woman in sturdy sandals, standing squarely a half-step ahead of the lithe, darker-skinned figure to her left. His elas/tic-band body bespoke discipline, even asceticism. Her form was well padded, territory ceded long ago to the pleasures of appetite and the forces of anatomical destiny. He had the studied casualness of a catalog model, in khakis, at home in the viewfinder. She met the camera head-on, dressed in hand-loomed textile dyed indigo, a silver earring half-hidden in the cascading curtain of her dark hair. She carried her chin a few degrees higher than most. His right hand rested on her shoulder, lightly. The photograph, taken on a Manhattan rooftop in August 1987 and e-mailed to me 20 years later, was a revelation and a puzzle. The man was Barack Obama at 26, the community organizer from Chicago on a visit to New York. The woman was Stanley Ann Dunham, his mother. It was impossible not to be struck by the similarities, and the dissimilarities, between them. It was impossible not to question the stereotype to which she had been expediently reduced: the white woman from Kansas. 
The president's mother has served as any of a number of useful oversimplifications. In the capsule version of Obama's life story, she is the white mother from Kansas coupled alliteratively to the black father from Kenya. She is corn-fed, white-bread, whatever Kenya is not. In ''Dreams From My Father,'' the memoir that helped power Obama's political ascent, she is the shy, small-town girl who falls head over heels for the brilliant, charismatic African who steals the show. In the next chapter, she is the naive idealist, the innocent abroad. In Obama's presidential campaign, she was the struggling single mother, the food-stamp recipient, the victim of a health care system gone awry, pleading with her insurance company for cover/age as her life slipped away. And in the fevered imaginings of supermarket tabloids and the Internet, she is the atheist, the Marx/ist, the flower child, the mother who abandoned her son or duped the newspapers of Hawaii into printing a birth announcement for her Kenyan-born baby, on the off chance that he might want to be president someday.
The earthy figure in the photograph did not fit any of those, as I learned over the course of two and a half years of research, travel and nearly 200 interviews. To describe Dunham as a white woman from Kansas turns out to be about as illuminating as describing her son as a politician who likes golf. Intentionally or not, the label obscures an extraordinary story -- of a girl with a boy's name who grew up in the years before the women's movement, the pill and the antiwar movement; who married an African at a time when nearly two dozen states still had laws against interracial marriage; who, at 24, moved to Jakarta with her son in the waning days of an anticommunist bloodbath in which hundreds of thousands of Indonesians were slaughtered; who lived more than half her adult life in a place barely known to most Americans, in the country with the largest Muslim population in the world; who spent years working in villages where a lone Western woman was a rarity; who immersed herself in the study of blacksmithing, a craft long practiced exclusively by men; who, as a working and mostly single mother, brought up two biracial children; who believed her son in particular had the potential to be great; who raised him to be, as he has put it jokingly, a combination of Albert Einstein, Mahatma Gandhi and Harry Belafonte; and then died at 52, never knowing who or what he would become.
Obama placed the ghost of his absent father at the center of his lyrical account of his life. At times, he has seemed to say more about the grandparents who helped raise him than about his mother. Yet she shaped him, to a degree Obama has seemed increasingly to acknowledge. In the preface to the 2004 edition of ''Dreams From My Father,'' issued nine years after the first edition and nine years after Dunham's death, Obama folded in a revealing admission: had he known his mother would not survive her illness, he might have written a different book -- ''less a meditation on the absent parent, more a celebration of the one who was the single constant in my life.''
Dunham, for whom a letter in Jakarta from her son in the United States could raise her spirits for a full day, surely wondered about her place in his life. On rare occasions, she indicated as much -- painfully, wistfully -- to close friends. But she would not have been inclined to overstate her case. As she told him, with a dry humor that seems downright Kansan, ''If nothing else, I gave you an interesting life.''
Ann Dunham, who jettisoned the name Stanley upon emerging from childhood, was just 17 years old in the fall of 1960 when she became pregnant with the child of a charismatic Kenyan named Barack Hussein Obama, a fellow student at the University of Hawaii who was more than six years her senior. She dropped out of school, married him and gave birth shortly before their union ended. In the aftermath, she met Lolo Soetoro, an amiable, easygoing, tennis-playing graduate student from the Indonesian island of Java. They married in 1964, after Ann's divorce came through, but their early life together was upended by forces beyond their control. On Sept. 30, 1965, six Indonesian army generals and one lieutenant were kidnapped and killed in Jakarta, in what the army characterized as an attempted coup planned by the Communist Party. Students studying abroad, including Lolo, whose studies were sponsored by the government, were soon summoned home. A year later, in 1967, Ann graduated with a degree in anthropology, gathered up her 6-year-old child and moved to Indonesia to join her husband.
The four years that followed were formative for mother and son -- and are a subject of curiosity and an object of speculation for many Americans today. These were years in which Ann lived closely with the young Obama, who at the time was called Barry; she impressed upon him her values and, consciously and unconsciously, shaped his emerging understanding of the world. She made choices about her own life too, setting an example that in some ways Obama would eventually embrace, while in other ways intentionally leaving it behind.
The white woman and her half-African son made quite a pair traveling in Indonesia together. Elizabeth Bryant, an American who lived in the city of Yogyakarta at the time, remembers a lunch held at another expatriate's house that Ann and Barry attended. Ann arrived in a long skirt made of Indonesian fabric -- not, Bryant noticed, a look that other American women in Indonesia seemed to favor. Ann in/structed Barry to shake hands, then to sit on the sofa and turn his attention to an English-language workbook she brought along. Ann, who had been in Indonesia for nearly four years, talked about whether to go back to Hawaii. ''She said, 'What would you do?' '' Bryant recalled when I spoke to her nearly 40 years later. ''I said, 'I could live here as long as two years, then would go back to Hawaii.' She said, 'Why?' I said it was hard liv/ing, it took a toll on your body, there were no doctors, it was not healthy. She didn't agree with me.''
Over lunch, Barry, who was 9 at the time, sat at the dining table and listened intently but did not speak. When he asked to be excused, Ann directed him to ask the hostess for permission. Permission granted, he got down on the floor and played with Bryant's son, who was 13 months old. After lunch, the group took a walk, with Barry running ahead. A flock of Indonesian children began lobbing rocks in his direction. They ducked behind a wall and shouted racial epithets. He seemed unfazed, dancing around as though playing dodge ball ''with unseen players,'' Bryant said. Ann did not react. Assuming she must not have understood the words, Bryant offered to intervene. ''No, he's O.K.,'' Ann said. ''He's used to it.''
''We were floored that she'd bring a half-black child to Indonesia, knowing the disrespect they have for blacks,'' Bryant said. At the same time, she admired Ann for teaching her boy to be fearless. A child in Indonesia needed to be raised that way -- for self-preservation, Bryant decided. Ann also seemed to be teaching Barry respect. He had all the politeness that Indonesian children displayed toward their parents. He seemed to be learning Indonesian ways.
''I think this is one reason he's so halus,'' Bryant said of the pres/ident, using the Indonesian adjective that means ''polite, refined, or courteous,'' referring to qualities some see as distinctively Javanese. ''He has the manners of Asians and the ways of Americans -- being halus, being patient, calm, a good listener. If you're not a good listener in Indonesia, you'd better leave.''
Indonesia was still in a state of shock when Ann arrived in 1967 for the first of three extended periods of residence that would even/tually add up to the majority of her adult life. The details of the attempted coup and counter/coup remain in dispute even today, as do the particulars of the carnage that followed. But it is known that neighbors turned on neighbors. According to Adrian Vickers, the author of ''A History of Modern Indonesia,'' militias went door to door in vil/lages, abducting suspects, raping women, even targeting children. ''The best way to prove you were not a Communist was to join in the killings,'' Vickers writes. Bill Collier, a friend of Ann's who arrived in Indonesia in 1968 and spent 15 years doing social and economic surveys in villages, told me that researchers were told by people living near brackish waterways that they had been unable to eat the fish because of decaying corpses in the water. Many Indonesians chose never to speak about what had happened.
The Jakarta that greeted Ann Soetoro and her son was a tapestry of villages -- low-rise and sprawling -- interwoven with wooded areas, paddy fields and marshland. Narrow alleys disappeared into warrens of tile-roofed houses in the rambling urban hamlets called kampungs. Squatter colonies lined the canals, which served as public baths, laundry facilities and sewers, all in one. During the long rainy season from November through March, ca/nals overflowed, saturating cardboard shanties and flooding much of the city. Residents traveled mostly on foot or by bicycle or bicycle-propelled rickshaws called becaks. Power outages were common. There were so few working phones that it was said that half the cars on the streets were ferrying messages from one office to the next. ''Sec/retaries would spend hours just dialing and redialing phone numbers trying to get through,'' Halimah Brugger, an American who moved there in 1968, told me. Westerners were rare, black people even rarer. Western women got a lot of attention. ''I remember creating quite a sensation just being pedaled down the street in a becak, wearing a short skirt,'' Brugger said. Letters from the United States took weeks to reach their destination. Foreigners endured all manner of gas/trointestinal upsets. Deworming was de rigueur.
Yet the city had a magi/cal charm. People who were children in Jakarta in that period, including Barack Obama, reminisce about the sound of the Muslim call to prayer in the days before public-address systems, and the signature sounds called out by street vendors wheeling their carts through the kampungs. Tea was still served on the veranda of the old Hotel des Indes. Ceiling fans turned lan/guidly in the midafternoon heat, and kerosene lamps flickered in the houses lining the narrow alleys at night. For anyone of no interest to government security forces, life was simple. For a foreigner, it was possible to arrive in Indonesia in 1967 largely ignorant of the horror of just two years before. ''I was quite naive about the whole thing,'' Brugger said. ''It was all over then. I never felt the slightest bit endangered.'' Years later, many people would look back on the late 1960s and early 1970s as a honeymoon period, Vickers writes. Restrictions on the press eased, a youth culture flowered, literary and cultural life thrived. It was, some later commented, Indonesia's Prague Spring.
When Ann arrived, Lolo was in the army. His salary was low. On her first night in Indonesia, Ann complained later to a colleague, Lolo served her white rice and dendeng celeng -- dried, jerked wild boar, which Indonesians hunted in the forests when food was scarce. But when Lolo completed his military service, his brother-in-law Trisulo used his contacts as a vice president at the Indonesian oil com/pany Pertamina to help Lolo get a job in the Jakarta office of the Union Oil Company of California. By the early 1970s, Lolo and Ann had moved into a rented house in Matraman, a middle-class area of Jakarta. The house was a pavilyun, an annex on the grounds of a bigger main house. It had three bedrooms, a kitchen, a bathroom, a library and a terrace. Like the households of other Indonesians who could afford it, it had a sizable domestic staff. Two female servants shared a bed/room; two men -- a cook and a houseboy -- slept mostly on the floor of the house or in the garden. The staff freed Ann from domestic obligations to a degree that would have been almost impossible in the United States. There were people to clean the house, prepare meals, buy groceries and look after her children -- enabling her to work, pursue her inter/ests and come and go as she wanted. The domestic staff made it possible, too, for Ann and Lolo to cultivate their own professional and social circles, which did not necessarily overlap.
By January 1968, Ann had gone to work as the assistant to the American director of Lembaga Indonesia-/Amerika, a binational organization financed by the United States Information Service and housed at the U.S. Agency for International Development. She supervised a small group of Indonesians who taught English classes for Indonesian government employees and businessmen being sent by U.S.A.I.D. to the United States for graduate studies. It would be an understatement to say she disliked the job. ''I worked at the U.S. Embassy in Dja/karta for 2 horrible years,'' she wrote to a friend. As Obama describes the job in his memoir, ''The Indonesian busi/nessmen weren't much interested in the niceties of the English lan/guage, and several made passes at her.'' Occasionally, she took Barry to work. Joseph Sigit, an Indonesian who worked as the office manager at the time, told me, ''Our staff here sometimes made a joke of him because he looked different -- the color of his skin.''
Joked with him -- or about him? I asked.
''With and about him,'' Sigit said, with no evident embarrassment.
Two years later, at 27, Ann was hired to start an English-language business-communications department in one of the few private nonprofit management-training schools in the country. The school, called the Institute for Management Education and Development, was started several years earlier by a Dutch Jesuit priest with the intention of helping to build an Indonesian elite. Ann trained the teachers, developed the curriculum and taught top executives. In return, she received not just a paycheck but also a share of the revenue from the program. She also became a popular teacher. Ann's classes ''could be a riot of laughter from beginning to end. She had a great sense of humor,'' said Leonard Kibble, who taught part time at the institute in the early 1970s. Some of the laughter involved Ann's still-incomplete mastery of the Indonesian language. In one slip that Kibble said Ann delighted in recounting, she tried to tell a student that he would ''get a pro/motion'' if he learned English. Instead of using the phrase naik pangkat, she said naik pantat. The word naik means to ''go up, rise, or mount''; pangkat means ''rank'' or ''position.'' Pantat means ''buttocks.''
That same year, on Aug. 15, 1970, shortly after Barry's ninth birthday and during what would turn out to be the only visit by her mother, Madelyn Dunham, to Indonesia, Ann gave birth to Maya Kassandra Soetoro at Saint Carolus Hospital, a Catholic hospital thought by Westerners at that time to be the best in Jakarta. When Halimah Brugger gave birth in the same hospital two years later, she told me, the doctor delivered her baby without the luxury of a stethoscope, gloves or gown. ''When the baby was born, the doctor asked my husband for his handkerchief,'' Brugger said. ''Then she stuffed it in my mouth and gave me 11 stitches without any anesthesia.'' Ann tried out three different names for her new daughter, all of them Sanskrit, before settling on Maya Kassandra. The name was important to Ann, Maya told me; she wanted ''beautiful names.'' Stanley, the name Ann felt burdened with as a child, was not on the list.
In Indonesia, Ann was a striking figure who did not go unnoticed. ''Maybe just her presence -- the way she carried herself,'' said Halimah Bellows, whom Ann hired in the spring of 1971. She dressed simply, with little or no makeup, and wore her hair long, held back by a headband. By Javanese standards, she was, as Felina Pramono, an Indonesian colleague, put it, ''a bit sturdy for a woman.'' She had strong opinions -- and rarely softened them to please others.
''She used to tear me apart,'' says Kay Ikranagara, one of Ann's closest friends, in a tone that sounded almost fond. Ann told her she needed to be bolder and stronger. She made fun of her inadequacy in the kitchen. She told her she should give her housekeeper explicit instructions, not simply let her do whatever she wanted. ''With everybody she was like that: she would tell them what was wrong with them,'' Ikranagara said. Family members were not spared. ''She was very scathing about the traditional Indonesian wife role,'' Ikranagara recalled. ''She would tell Maya not to be such a wimp. She didn't like this passive Indonesian female caricature. She would tell me not to fall into that.''
Ikranagara was the daughter of a development economist from the University of California who taught at the University of Indonesia in the late 1950s. She lived in Jakarta as a teenager, studied anthropology and linguistics in the 1960s at Berkeley and then returned to Jakarta, where she met her husband. She met Ann while teaching part time at the management school and writing her dissertation in linguistics. They had a lot in common: Indonesian husbands, degrees in anthropology, babies born in the same month, opinions shaped by the 1960s. They were less conscious than others of the boundaries between cultures, Ikranagara told me, and they rejected what they saw as the previous genera/tion's hypocrisy on the subject of race. ''We had all the same atti/tudes,'' she said. ''When we met people who worked for the oil companies or the embassy, they belonged to a different cul/ture than Ann and I. We felt they didn't mix with Indonesians, they were part of an insular American culture.'' Servants seemed to be the only Indonesians those Americans knew.
But by the early 1970s, Lolo's new job had plunged him deeply into the oil-company culture. Foreign businesses in In/donesia were required to hire and train Indonesian partners. The exercise struck some people as a sham: companies would hire an Indonesian director, pay him well and give him little or nothing to do. Trisulo, Lolo's brother-in-law, told me he did not recall the exact nature of Lolo's job with Union Oil. His son, Sonny Trisulo, said it may have been ''government relations.'' Whatever it was, Lolo's job included socializing with oil-company executives and their wives. He joined the Indonesian Petroleum Club, a private watering hole in Central Jakarta for oil-company people and their families, which offered swimming, tennis and dining. Ann was expected to so/cialize, too. Any failure to do so reflected badly on Lolo. ''It's the society that asks it,'' Ikranagara said. ''Your husband is sup/posed to show up at social functions with you at his side, dressed in a kain and kebaya,'' a costume consisting of a traditional, tightly fitted, long-sleeved blouse and a length of unstitched cloth wound around the lower part of the body. ''You're supposed to sit with the women and talk about your children and your servants.''
Ann begged off. ''She didn't understand these folks -- the idea of living an expa/triate life that was so completely divorced from the world around you, that involves hiding yourself away in these protective cells of existence,'' Maya said. ''That was peculiar to her, and she was bored by it.'' Ann complained to her friend Bill Collier that all those mid/dle-aged white Americans talked about inane things. Lolo, she told Collier, ''was becoming more American all the time.'' Occasionally, the young Obama would overhear Lolo and Ann arguing in their bedroom about Ann's refusal to attend his oil-company dinners, at which, he writes in ''Dreams From My Father,'' ''American business/men from Texas and Louisiana would slap Lolo's back and boast about the palms they had greased to obtain the new offshore-drill/ing rights, while their wives complained to my mother about the quality of Indonesian help. He would ask her how it would look for him to go alone and remind her that these were her own peo/ple, and my mother's voice would rise to almost a shout.
'' 'They are not my people.' ''
The relationship between Ann and Lolo appears to have begun deteriorating even before Lolo took the oil-company job. As Obama describes it, something happened between them when Lolo was called back to Jakarta during the time of unrest in Indonesia and they spent a year apart. In Hawaii, Lolo was full of life, regaling Ann with stories from his childhood, confiding his plans to return to his country and teach at the univer/sity. Now he barely spoke to her. Some nights, he would sleep with a pistol under his pillow; other nights, she would hear him ''wandering through the house with a bottle of imported whiskey, nursing his secrets.'' Ann's loneliness was a constant, Obama writes, ''like a shortness of breath.''
Ann had pieced together some of what happened in Indonesia in 1965 and afterward from fragmentary information that people let slip. Her new Indonesian friends talked to her about corruption in government agencies, police and military shakedowns, the power of the presi/dent's entourage. Lolo would not talk about any of it. According to Obama, a cousin of Lolo's finally explained to Ann what happened when her husband returned from Hawaii. Upon arriving in Jakarta, he was taken away for questioning and told he had been conscripted and would be sent to the jungles of New Guinea for a year. It could have been worse: students returning from Soviet-bloc countries were jailed or even van/ished. Obama writes that Ann concluded that ''power had taken Lolo and yanked him back into line just when he thought he'd escaped, making him feel its weight, letting him know that his life wasn't his own.'' In response, Lolo made his peace with power, ''learned the wisdom of forgetting; just as his brother-in-law had done, making millions as a high official in the national oil company.''
Lolo had disappointed Ann, but her refusal to conform to his culture's expectations apparently angered him as well. ''She didn't know, as little I knew, how Indonesian men change when suddenly their family is around,'' Renske Heringa, a Dutch anthro/pologist and close friend of Ann's in the 1980s who herself married a man who was half Indonesian, told me. ''And how Indo/nesian men like women to be easy and open abroad, but when you get to Indonesia, the parents are there, the family is there, you have to behave. You have to be the little wife. As a wife, you were not supposed to make yourself visible besides being beautiful. By the time I knew Ann, she was a hefty woman. She didn't care about getting dressed, wearing jewelry, the way Indonesian women do. That was not her style. He expected her to do it. That is one reason she didn't stick it out. She absolutely refused to. I understand why he couldn't accept it.''
One morning in January 2009, at the offices of the manage/ment school for which Ann had worked, I met a man in his late 50s named Saman. Like some Javanese, he went by a single name. Speaking in Bahasa Indonesia, with Ann's former assistant Felina Pramono translating, he told me that he worked as a houseboy for Lolo and Ann in the early 1970s. One of seven children from a family of farmers, Saman moved to Jakarta as a teenager to find work. When he worked for Ann and Lolo, his duties included gardening; taking care of a pet turtle, dog, rabbit and bird; and taking Barry to school by bi/cycle or becak. Ann and Lolo paid Saman well and treated all four members of the household staff equally, he said. He remembered Lolo as stern and Ann as kindhearted.
Ann would finish teaching at 9 in the evening and sometimes not return home until midnight, Saman said. She seemed barely to sleep. She would stay up, typing and correcting Barry's homework, then get up again before dawn. On one occasion, Saman said: ''She got home late with a student, but the student didn't see her home properly. So he dropped her near the house, and Soetoro got very mad because of that.'' An argument ensued, which Saman overheard. ''He said: 'I've warned you many times. Why are you still doing this?' '' Saman recalled. Whether Lolo's worry was infidelity or simply what others might think is unclear from Saman's story. After the argument, he said, Ann appeared in the house with a towel pressed to her face and blood running from her nose. It is difficult to know what to make of the nearly 40-year-old recollection. No one else I interviewed suggested there was ever violence between Ann and Lolo, a man many people described as patient and sweet-tempered.
When one fellow teacher, an Indonesian man whom Ann befriended, asked about her husband in 1968 or 1969, she told him grimly: ''I'm never asked. I'm told.'' Reflecting on her marriage some years later, Ann told another Indonesian friend, Yang Suwan, resignedly: ''Don't you know that you don't argue and you don't discuss with a Javanese person? Be/cause problems don't exist with Javanese people. Time will solve problems.''
With her children, Ann made a point of being more physically affectionate than her mother had been with her, she told one friend. She was cuddly and would say, ''I love you,'' according to Maya, a hundred times a day. She was playful -- making pottery, weaving decorations, doing art projects that stretched across the room. ''I think that we benefited a great deal from her focus when we were with her, when she was beside us,'' Maya told me. ''So that made the absences hurt a little less.'' Where her children were involved, Ann was eas/ily moved to tears, even occasionally when speaking about them to friends. She preferred humor to harping, but she was exacting about the things she believed mattered most. Richard Hook, who worked with Ann in Jakarta in the late 1980s and early 1990s, said she told him that she worked to instill ideas about public service in her son. She wanted Barry to have a sense of obligation, to give something back. She wanted him to start off, Hook said, with the attitudes and values she had taken years to learn.
''If you want to grow into a human being,'' Obama remembers her saying, ''you're going to need some values.'' When necessary, Ann was, according to two accounts, not unwilling to reinforce her message. ''She talked about disciplining Barry, including spanking him for things where he richly deserved a spanking,'' said Don Johnston, who worked with Ann in the early 1990s, sometimes traveling with her in Indonesia and living in the same house. Saman said that when Barry failed to finish homework sent from Hawaii by his grandmother, Ann ''would call him into his room and would spank him with his father's military belt.'' President Obama, through a spokeswoman, said his mother never resorted to physical discipline.
One evening in the house in Matraman, Saman said, he and Barry were preparing to go to sleep. They often slept in the same place -- sometimes in the bunk bed in Barry's room, sometimes on the dining-room floor or in the garden. On this occasion, Barry, who was 8 or 9 at the time, asked Saman to turn out the light. When Saman did not do it, he said, Barry hit him in the chest. When he did not react, Barry hit him harder, and Saman struck him back. Barry began to cry loudly, attracting Ann's attention. According to Saman, Ann did not respond. She seemed to realize that Barry had been in the wrong. Otherwise, Saman would not have struck him.
''We were not permitted to be rude, we were not permitted to be mean, we were not permitted to be arrogant,'' Maya told me. ''We had to have a certain humility and broad-mindedness. We had to study. . . . If we said something unkind about someone, she would try to talk about their point of view. Or, 'How would you feel?' Sort of compelling us ever toward empathy and those kinds of things and not allowing us to be selfish. That was constant, steady, daily.''
It was clear to many that Ann believed Barry, in particular, was unusually gifted. She would boast about his brains, his achievements, how brave he was. Benji Bennington, a friend of Ann's from Hawaii, told me, ''Sometimes when she talked about Barack, she'd say, 'Well, my son is so bright, he can do anything he ever wants in the world, even be president of the United States.' I re/member her saying that.'' Samardal Manan, who taught with Ann in Jakarta, remembered Ann saying something similar -- that Barry could be, or perhaps wanted to be, the first black president.
''What do you want to be when you grow up?'' Lolo asked Barry one evening, according to Saman.
''Oh, prime minister,'' Barry answered.
What mattered as much as anything to Ann, as a parent, was her children's education. But that was not simple. Indonesian schools in the late 1960s and early 1970s were inadequate; there were not enough of them, the government controlled the curriculum, teach/ers were poorly trained. Westerners sent their children to the Jakarta International School, but it was expensive and difficult to get into. Obama attended two Indonesian schools, one Catholic and one Muslim. The experience cannot have failed to have left a mark. The Java/nese, especially the Central Javanese, place an enormous emphasis on self-control. Even to sneeze was to exhibit an untoward lack of self-control, said Michael Dove, who got to know Ann when they were both anthropologists working in Java in the 1980s. ''You demonstrate an inner strength by not betraying emotion, not speaking loudly, not moving jerkily,'' he said. Self-control is inculcated through a culture of teasing, Kay Ikrana/gara told me. Her husband, known only as Ikrana/gara, said, ''People tease about skin color all the time.'' If a child allows the teasing to bother him, he is teased more. If he ignores it, it stops. ''Our ambassador said this was where Barack learned to be cool,'' Kay told me. ''If you get mad and react, you lose. If you learn to laugh and take it without any reaction, you win.''
With time, Ann's thinking about Barack's future changed. ''She had always encouraged my rapid acculturation in Indone/sia,'' he wrote in his memoir. ''It had made me relatively self-sufficient, undemanding on a tight budget, and extremely well mannered when compared with other American children. She had taught me to disdain the blend of ignorance and arrogance that too often character/ized Americans abroad. But she now had learned, just as Lolo had learned, the chasm that separated the life chances of an American from those of an Indonesian. She knew which side of the divide she wanted her child to be on. I was an American, she decided, and my true life lay elsewhere.''
In early 1971, Ann told Barry that he would be returning to Hawaii. He would live with his grandparents in Ho nolulu and attend Punahou School, a respected prep school within walking distance of the Dunhams' apartment. ''She said that she and Maya would be joining me in Hawaii very soon -- a year, tops -- and that she'd try to make it there for Christmas,'' he wrote in ''Dreams From My Father.'' Ann's uncle Charles Payne told me he suspected that her mother, Madelyn, played a part in the decision. ''Madelyn always had a great concern about Barack getting a good education,'' he said. ''I think that was her defense against his racial mixture -- that education was the solution to whatever problems that would bring.''
As Obama later described his send-off, an Indonesian co-pilot who was a friend of Ann's escorted him to the plane ''as she and Lolo and my new sister, Maya, stood by at the gate.''
Ann uprooted Barry, at age 6, and transplanted him to Jakarta. Now she was up/rooting him again, at barely 10, and sending him back, alone. She would follow him to Hawaii only to leave him again, less than three years later.
When we spoke last July, Obama recalled those serial displacements. ''I think that was harder on a 10-year-old boy than he'd care to admit at the time,'' Obama said, sitting in a chair in the Oval Of/fice and speaking about his mother with a mix of affection and critical distance. ''When we were separated again during high school, at that point I was old enough to say, 'This is my choice, my decision.' But being a parent now and looking back at that, I could see -- you know what? -- that would be hard on a kid.''
He spoke about his mother with fondness, humor and a degree of candor that I had not expected. There was also in his tone at times a hint of gentle forbearance. Perhaps it was the tone of someone whose patience had been tested, by a person he loved, to the point where he had stepped back to a safer distance. Or perhaps it was the knowingness of a grown child seeing his par/ent as irredeemably human.
''She was a very strong person in her own way,'' Obama said, when I asked about Ann's limitations as a mother. ''Resilient, able to bounce back from setbacks, persistent -- the fact that she ended up finishing her dissertation. But despite all those strengths, she was not a well-organized person. And that disorganization, you know, spilled over. Had it not been for my grandparents, I think, providing some sort of safety net financially, being able to take me and my sister on at certain spots, I think my mother would have had to make some different decisions. And I think that sometimes she took for granted that, 'Well, it'll all work out, and it'll be fine.' But the fact is, it might not always have been fine, had it not been for my grandmother. . . . Had she not been there to provide that floor, I think our young lives could have been much more chaotic than they were.''
But he did not, he said, hold his mother's choices against her. Part of being an adult is seeing your parents ''as people who have their own strengths, weaknesses, quirks, longings.'' He did not believe, he said, that parents served their children well by being unhappy. If his mother had cramped her spirit, it would not have given him a happier childhood. As it was, she gave him the single most important gift a parent can give -- ''a sense of un/conditional love that was big enough that, with all the surface dis/turbances of our lives, it sustained me, entirely.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 30, about President Obama's mother, Stanley Ann Dunham, misstates the title of the book from which the article is adapted. It is ''A Singular Woman: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's Mother,'' not ''A Single Woman: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's Mother.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stanley Ann Dunham at Borobudur in Indonesia, in the early 1970s. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM FRIENDS AND FAMILY OF STANLEY ANN DUNHAM) (MM30-MM31)
PACIFIC RIM: Barack Obama and his grandfather, Stanley Armour Dunham (top) in Hawaii. Obama, 9, with his stepfather, Lolo Soetoro, his mother, Ann, and his sister, Maya, in Indonesia in 1970 (bottom). (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE OBAMA PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN/AP PHOTO) (MM33)
HAWAII TIME: Barack Obama with his father at the Honolulu airport at Christmas in 1971 (top) and with his mother at the Punahou School commencement in 1979. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA/AP PHOTO
 FRIENDS AND FAMILY OF STANLEY ANN DUNHAM) (MM34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); RELIGION (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (93%); INDONESIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



547 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 5983 words

HEADLINE: THE YOUNG MOTHER ABROAD

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT. 
This article is adapted from ''A Single Woman: The Untold Story of , Barack Obama's Mother,'' to be published next month.

 BODY:
The photograph showed the son, but my eye gravitated toward the mother. That first glimpse was surprising -- the stout, pale-skinned woman in sturdy sandals, standing squarely a half-step ahead of the lithe, darker-skinned figure to her left. His elas/tic-band body bespoke discipline, even asceticism. Her form was well padded, territory ceded long ago to the pleasures of appetite and the forces of anatomical destiny. He had the studied casualness of a catalog model, in khakis, at home in the viewfinder. She met the camera head-on, dressed in hand-loomed textile dyed indigo, a silver earring half-hidden in the cascading curtain of her dark hair. She carried her chin a few degrees higher than most. His right hand rested on her shoulder, lightly. The photograph, taken on a Manhattan rooftop in August 1987 and e-mailed to me 20 years later, was a revelation and a puzzle. The man was Barack Obama at 26, the community organizer from Chicago on a visit to New York. The woman was Stanley Ann Dunham, his mother. It was impossible not to be struck by the similarities, and the dissimilarities, between them. It was impossible not to question the stereotype to which she had been expediently reduced: the white woman from Kansas. 
The president's mother has served as any of a number of useful oversimplifications. In the capsule version of Obama's life story, she is the white mother from Kansas coupled alliteratively to the black father from Kenya. She is corn-fed, white-bread, whatever Kenya is not. In ''Dreams From My Father,'' the memoir that helped power Obama's political ascent, she is the shy, small-town girl who falls head over heels for the brilliant, charismatic African who steals the show. In the next chapter, she is the naive idealist, the innocent abroad. In Obama's presidential campaign, she was the struggling single mother, the food-stamp recipient, the victim of a health care system gone awry, pleading with her insurance company for cover/age as her life slipped away. And in the fevered imaginings of supermarket tabloids and the Internet, she is the atheist, the Marx/ist, the flower child, the mother who abandoned her son or duped the newspapers of Hawaii into printing a birth announcement for her Kenyan-born baby, on the off chance that he might want to be president someday.
The earthy figure in the photograph did not fit any of those, as I learned over the course of two and a half years of research, travel and nearly 200 interviews. To describe Dunham as a white woman from Kansas turns out to be about as illuminating as describing her son as a politician who likes golf. Intentionally or not, the label obscures an extraordinary story -- of a girl with a boy's name who grew up in the years before the women's movement, the pill and the antiwar movement; who married an African at a time when nearly two dozen states still had laws against interracial marriage; who, at 24, moved to Jakarta with her son in the waning days of an anticommunist bloodbath in which hundreds of thousands of Indonesians were slaughtered; who lived more than half her adult life in a place barely known to most Americans, in the country with the largest Muslim population in the world; who spent years working in villages where a lone Western woman was a rarity; who immersed herself in the study of blacksmithing, a craft long practiced exclusively by men; who, as a working and mostly single mother, brought up two biracial children; who believed her son in particular had the potential to be great; who raised him to be, as he has put it jokingly, a combination of Albert Einstein, Mahatma Gandhi and Harry Belafonte; and then died at 52, never knowing who or what he would become.
Obama placed the ghost of his absent father at the center of his lyrical account of his life. At times, he has seemed to say more about the grandparents who helped raise him than about his mother. Yet she shaped him, to a degree Obama has seemed increasingly to acknowledge. In the preface to the 2004 edition of ''Dreams From My Father,'' issued nine years after the first edition and nine years after Dunham's death, Obama folded in a revealing admission: had he known his mother would not survive her illness, he might have written a different book -- ''less a meditation on the absent parent, more a celebration of the one who was the single constant in my life.''
Dunham, for whom a letter in Jakarta from her son in the United States could raise her spirits for a full day, surely wondered about her place in his life. On rare occasions, she indicated as much -- painfully, wistfully -- to close friends. But she would not have been inclined to overstate her case. As she told him, with a dry humor that seems downright Kansan, ''If nothing else, I gave you an interesting life.''
Ann Dunham, who jettisoned the name Stanley upon emerging from childhood, was just 17 years old in the fall of 1960 when she became pregnant with the child of a charismatic Kenyan named Barack Hussein Obama, a fellow student at the University of Hawaii who was more than six years her senior. She dropped out of school, married him and gave birth shortly before their union ended. In the aftermath, she met Lolo Soetoro, an amiable, easygoing, tennis-playing graduate student from the Indonesian island of Java. They married in 1964, after Ann's divorce came through, but their early life together was upended by forces beyond their control. On Sept. 30, 1965, six Indonesian army generals and one lieutenant were kidnapped and killed in Jakarta, in what the army characterized as an attempted coup planned by the Communist Party. Students studying abroad, including Lolo, whose studies were sponsored by the government, were soon summoned home. A year later, in 1967, Ann graduated with a degree in anthropology, gathered up her 6-year-old child and moved to Indonesia to join her husband.
The four years that followed were formative for mother and son -- and are a subject of curiosity and an object of speculation for many Americans today. These were years in which Ann lived closely with the young Obama, who at the time was called Barry; she impressed upon him her values and, consciously and unconsciously, shaped his emerging understanding of the world. She made choices about her own life too, setting an example that in some ways Obama would eventually embrace, while in other ways intentionally leaving it behind.
The white woman and her half-African son made quite a pair traveling in Indonesia together. Elizabeth Bryant, an American who lived in the city of Yogyakarta at the time, remembers a lunch held at another expatriate's house that Ann and Barry attended. Ann arrived in a long skirt made of Indonesian fabric -- not, Bryant noticed, a look that other American women in Indonesia seemed to favor. Ann in/structed Barry to shake hands, then to sit on the sofa and turn his attention to an English-language workbook she brought along. Ann, who had been in Indonesia for nearly four years, talked about whether to go back to Hawaii. ''She said, 'What would you do?' '' Bryant recalled when I spoke to her nearly 40 years later. ''I said, 'I could live here as long as two years, then would go back to Hawaii.' She said, 'Why?' I said it was hard liv/ing, it took a toll on your body, there were no doctors, it was not healthy. She didn't agree with me.''
Over lunch, Barry, who was 9 at the time, sat at the dining table and listened intently but did not speak. When he asked to be excused, Ann directed him to ask the hostess for permission. Permission granted, he got down on the floor and played with Bryant's son, who was 13 months old. After lunch, the group took a walk, with Barry running ahead. A flock of Indonesian children began lobbing rocks in his direction. They ducked behind a wall and shouted racial epithets. He seemed unfazed, dancing around as though playing dodge ball ''with unseen players,'' Bryant said. Ann did not react. Assuming she must not have understood the words, Bryant offered to intervene. ''No, he's O.K.,'' Ann said. ''He's used to it.''
''We were floored that she'd bring a half-black child to Indonesia, knowing the disrespect they have for blacks,'' Bryant said. At the same time, she admired Ann for teaching her boy to be fearless. A child in Indonesia needed to be raised that way -- for self-preservation, Bryant decided. Ann also seemed to be teaching Barry respect. He had all the politeness that Indonesian children displayed toward their parents. He seemed to be learning Indonesian ways.
''I think this is one reason he's so halus,'' Bryant said of the pres/ident, using the Indonesian adjective that means ''polite, refined, or courteous,'' referring to qualities some see as distinctively Javanese. ''He has the manners of Asians and the ways of Americans -- being halus, being patient, calm, a good listener. If you're not a good listener in Indonesia, you'd better leave.''
Indonesia was still in a state of shock when Ann arrived in 1967 for the first of three extended periods of residence that would even/tually add up to the majority of her adult life. The details of the attempted coup and counter/coup remain in dispute even today, as do the particulars of the carnage that followed. But it is known that neighbors turned on neighbors. According to Adrian Vickers, the author of ''A History of Modern Indonesia,'' militias went door to door in vil/lages, abducting suspects, raping women, even targeting children. ''The best way to prove you were not a Communist was to join in the killings,'' Vickers writes. Bill Collier, a friend of Ann's who arrived in Indonesia in 1968 and spent 15 years doing social and economic surveys in villages, told me that researchers were told by people living near brackish waterways that they had been unable to eat the fish because of decaying corpses in the water. Many Indonesians chose never to speak about what had happened.
The Jakarta that greeted Ann Soetoro and her son was a tapestry of villages -- low-rise and sprawling -- interwoven with wooded areas, paddy fields and marshland. Narrow alleys disappeared into warrens of tile-roofed houses in the rambling urban hamlets called kampungs. Squatter colonies lined the canals, which served as public baths, laundry facilities and sewers, all in one. During the long rainy season from November through March, ca/nals overflowed, saturating cardboard shanties and flooding much of the city. Residents traveled mostly on foot or by bicycle or bicycle-propelled rickshaws called becaks. Power outages were common. There were so few working phones that it was said that half the cars on the streets were ferrying messages from one office to the next. ''Sec/retaries would spend hours just dialing and redialing phone numbers trying to get through,'' Halimah Brugger, an American who moved there in 1968, told me. Westerners were rare, black people even rarer. Western women got a lot of attention. ''I remember creating quite a sensation just being pedaled down the street in a becak, wearing a short skirt,'' Brugger said. Letters from the United States took weeks to reach their destination. Foreigners endured all manner of gas/trointestinal upsets. Deworming was de rigueur.
Yet the city had a magi/cal charm. People who were children in Jakarta in that period, including Barack Obama, reminisce about the sound of the Muslim call to prayer in the days before public-address systems, and the signature sounds called out by street vendors wheeling their carts through the kampungs. Tea was still served on the veranda of the old Hotel des Indes. Ceiling fans turned lan/guidly in the midafternoon heat, and kerosene lamps flickered in the houses lining the narrow alleys at night. For anyone of no interest to government security forces, life was simple. For a foreigner, it was possible to arrive in Indonesia in 1967 largely ignorant of the horror of just two years before. ''I was quite naive about the whole thing,'' Brugger said. ''It was all over then. I never felt the slightest bit endangered.'' Years later, many people would look back on the late 1960s and early 1970s as a honeymoon period, Vickers writes. Restrictions on the press eased, a youth culture flowered, literary and cultural life thrived. It was, some later commented, Indonesia's Prague Spring.
When Ann arrived, Lolo was in the army. His salary was low. On her first night in Indonesia, Ann complained later to a colleague, Lolo served her white rice and dendeng celeng -- dried, jerked wild boar, which Indonesians hunted in the forests when food was scarce. But when Lolo completed his military service, his brother-in-law Trisulo used his contacts as a vice president at the Indonesian oil com/pany Pertamina to help Lolo get a job in the Jakarta office of the Union Oil Company of California. By the early 1970s, Lolo and Ann had moved into a rented house in Matraman, a middle-class area of Jakarta. The house was a pavilyun, an annex on the grounds of a bigger main house. It had three bedrooms, a kitchen, a bathroom, a library and a terrace. Like the households of other Indonesians who could afford it, it had a sizable domestic staff. Two female servants shared a bed/room; two men -- a cook and a houseboy -- slept mostly on the floor of the house or in the garden. The staff freed Ann from domestic obligations to a degree that would have been almost impossible in the United States. There were people to clean the house, prepare meals, buy groceries and look after her children -- enabling her to work, pursue her inter/ests and come and go as she wanted. The domestic staff made it possible, too, for Ann and Lolo to cultivate their own professional and social circles, which did not necessarily overlap.
By January 1968, Ann had gone to work as the assistant to the American director of Lembaga Indonesia-/Amerika, a binational organization financed by the United States Information Service and housed at the U.S. Agency for International Development. She supervised a small group of Indonesians who taught English classes for Indonesian government employees and businessmen being sent by U.S.A.I.D. to the United States for graduate studies. It would be an understatement to say she disliked the job. ''I worked at the U.S. Embassy in Dja/karta for 2 horrible years,'' she wrote to a friend. As Obama describes the job in his memoir, ''The Indonesian busi/nessmen weren't much interested in the niceties of the English lan/guage, and several made passes at her.'' Occasionally, she took Barry to work. Joseph Sigit, an Indonesian who worked as the office manager at the time, told me, ''Our staff here sometimes made a joke of him because he looked different -- the color of his skin.''
Joked with him -- or about him? I asked.
''With and about him,'' Sigit said, with no evident embarrassment.
Two years later, at 27, Ann was hired to start an English-language business-communications department in one of the few private nonprofit management-training schools in the country. The school, called the Institute for Management Education and Development, was started several years earlier by a Dutch Jesuit priest with the intention of helping to build an Indonesian elite. Ann trained the teachers, developed the curriculum and taught top executives. In return, she received not just a paycheck but also a share of the revenue from the program. She also became a popular teacher. Ann's classes ''could be a riot of laughter from beginning to end. She had a great sense of humor,'' said Leonard Kibble, who taught part time at the institute in the early 1970s. Some of the laughter involved Ann's still-incomplete mastery of the Indonesian language. In one slip that Kibble said Ann delighted in recounting, she tried to tell a student that he would ''get a pro/motion'' if he learned English. Instead of using the phrase naik pangkat, she said naik pantat. The word naik means to ''go up, rise, or mount''; pangkat means ''rank'' or ''position.'' Pantat means ''buttocks.''
That same year, on Aug. 15, 1970, shortly after Barry's ninth birthday and during what would turn out to be the only visit by her mother, Madelyn Dunham, to Indonesia, Ann gave birth to Maya Kassandra Soetoro at Saint Carolus Hospital, a Catholic hospital thought by Westerners at that time to be the best in Jakarta. When Halimah Brugger gave birth in the same hospital two years later, she told me, the doctor delivered her baby without the luxury of a stethoscope, gloves or gown. ''When the baby was born, the doctor asked my husband for his handkerchief,'' Brugger said. ''Then she stuffed it in my mouth and gave me 11 stitches without any anesthesia.'' Ann tried out three different names for her new daughter, all of them Sanskrit, before settling on Maya Kassandra. The name was important to Ann, Maya told me; she wanted ''beautiful names.'' Stanley, the name Ann felt burdened with as a child, was not on the list.
In Indonesia, Ann was a striking figure who did not go unnoticed. ''Maybe just her presence -- the way she carried herself,'' said Halimah Bellows, whom Ann hired in the spring of 1971. She dressed simply, with little or no makeup, and wore her hair long, held back by a headband. By Javanese standards, she was, as Felina Pramono, an Indonesian colleague, put it, ''a bit sturdy for a woman.'' She had strong opinions -- and rarely softened them to please others.
''She used to tear me apart,'' says Kay Ikranagara, one of Ann's closest friends, in a tone that sounded almost fond. Ann told her she needed to be bolder and stronger. She made fun of her inadequacy in the kitchen. She told her she should give her housekeeper explicit instructions, not simply let her do whatever she wanted. ''With everybody she was like that: she would tell them what was wrong with them,'' Ikranagara said. Family members were not spared. ''She was very scathing about the traditional Indonesian wife role,'' Ikranagara recalled. ''She would tell Maya not to be such a wimp. She didn't like this passive Indonesian female caricature. She would tell me not to fall into that.''
Ikranagara was the daughter of a development economist from the University of California who taught at the University of Indonesia in the late 1950s. She lived in Jakarta as a teenager, studied anthropology and linguistics in the 1960s at Berkeley and then returned to Jakarta, where she met her husband. She met Ann while teaching part time at the management school and writing her dissertation in linguistics. They had a lot in common: Indonesian husbands, degrees in anthropology, babies born in the same month, opinions shaped by the 1960s. They were less conscious than others of the boundaries between cultures, Ikranagara told me, and they rejected what they saw as the previous genera/tion's hypocrisy on the subject of race. ''We had all the same atti/tudes,'' she said. ''When we met people who worked for the oil companies or the embassy, they belonged to a different cul/ture than Ann and I. We felt they didn't mix with Indonesians, they were part of an insular American culture.'' Servants seemed to be the only Indonesians those Americans knew.
But by the early 1970s, Lolo's new job had plunged him deeply into the oil-company culture. Foreign businesses in In/donesia were required to hire and train Indonesian partners. The exercise struck some people as a sham: companies would hire an Indonesian director, pay him well and give him little or nothing to do. Trisulo, Lolo's brother-in-law, told me he did not recall the exact nature of Lolo's job with Union Oil. His son, Sonny Trisulo, said it may have been ''government relations.'' Whatever it was, Lolo's job included socializing with oil-company executives and their wives. He joined the Indonesian Petroleum Club, a private watering hole in Central Jakarta for oil-company people and their families, which offered swimming, tennis and dining. Ann was expected to so/cialize, too. Any failure to do so reflected badly on Lolo. ''It's the society that asks it,'' Ikranagara said. ''Your husband is sup/posed to show up at social functions with you at his side, dressed in a kain and kebaya,'' a costume consisting of a traditional, tightly fitted, long-sleeved blouse and a length of unstitched cloth wound around the lower part of the body. ''You're supposed to sit with the women and talk about your children and your servants.''
Ann begged off. ''She didn't understand these folks -- the idea of living an expa/triate life that was so completely divorced from the world around you, that involves hiding yourself away in these protective cells of existence,'' Maya said. ''That was peculiar to her, and she was bored by it.'' Ann complained to her friend Bill Collier that all those mid/dle-aged white Americans talked about inane things. Lolo, she told Collier, ''was becoming more American all the time.'' Occasionally, the young Obama would overhear Lolo and Ann arguing in their bedroom about Ann's refusal to attend his oil-company dinners, at which, he writes in ''Dreams From My Father,'' ''American business/men from Texas and Louisiana would slap Lolo's back and boast about the palms they had greased to obtain the new offshore-drill/ing rights, while their wives complained to my mother about the quality of Indonesian help. He would ask her how it would look for him to go alone and remind her that these were her own peo/ple, and my mother's voice would rise to almost a shout.
'' 'They are not my people.' ''
The relationship between Ann and Lolo appears to have begun deteriorating even before Lolo took the oil-company job. As Obama describes it, something happened between them when Lolo was called back to Jakarta during the time of unrest in Indonesia and they spent a year apart. In Hawaii, Lolo was full of life, regaling Ann with stories from his childhood, confiding his plans to return to his country and teach at the univer/sity. Now he barely spoke to her. Some nights, he would sleep with a pistol under his pillow; other nights, she would hear him ''wandering through the house with a bottle of imported whiskey, nursing his secrets.'' Ann's loneliness was a constant, Obama writes, ''like a shortness of breath.''
Ann had pieced together some of what happened in Indonesia in 1965 and afterward from fragmentary information that people let slip. Her new Indonesian friends talked to her about corruption in government agencies, police and military shakedowns, the power of the presi/dent's entourage. Lolo would not talk about any of it. According to Obama, a cousin of Lolo's finally explained to Ann what happened when her husband returned from Hawaii. Upon arriving in Jakarta, he was taken away for questioning and told he had been conscripted and would be sent to the jungles of New Guinea for a year. It could have been worse: students-- returning from Soviet-bloc countries were jailed or even van/ished. Obama writes that Ann concluded that ''power had taken Lolo and yanked him back into line just when he thought he'd escaped, making him feel its weight, letting him know that his life wasn't his own.'' In response, Lolo made his peace with power, ''learned the wisdom of forgetting; just as his brother-in-law had done, making millions as a high official in the national oil company.''
Lolo had disappointed Ann, but her refusal to conform to his culture's expectations apparently angered him as well. ''She didn't know, as little I knew, how Indonesian men change when suddenly their family is around,'' Renske Heringa, a Dutch anthro/pologist and close friend of Ann's in the 1980s who herself married a man who was half Indonesian, told me. ''And how Indo/nesian men like women to be easy and open abroad, but when you get to Indonesia, the parents are there, the family is there, you have to behave. You have to be the little wife. As a wife, you were not supposed to make yourself visible besides being beautiful. By the time I knew Ann, she was a hefty woman. She didn't care about getting dressed, wearing jewelry, the way Indonesian women do. That was not her style. He expected her to do it. That is one reason she didn't stick it out. She absolutely refused to. I understand why he couldn't accept it.''
One morning in January 2009, at the offices of the manage/ment school for which Ann had worked, I met a man in his late 50s named Saman. Like some Javanese, he went by a single name. Speaking in Bahasa Indonesia, with Ann's former assistant Felina Pramono translating, he told me that he worked as a houseboy for Lolo and Ann in the early 1970s. One of seven children from a family of farmers, Saman moved to Jakarta as a teenager to find work. When he worked for Ann and Lolo, his duties included gardening; taking care of a pet turtle, dog, rabbit and bird; and taking Barry to school by bi/cycle or becak. Ann and Lolo paid Saman well and treated all four members of the household staff equally, he said. He remembered Lolo as stern and Ann as kindhearted.
Ann would finish teaching at 9 in the evening and sometimes not return home until midnight, Saman said. She seemed barely to sleep. She would stay up, typing and correcting Barry's homework, then get up again before dawn. On one occasion, Saman said: ''She got home late with a student, but the student didn't see her home properly. So he dropped her near the house, and Soetoro got very mad because of that.'' An argument ensued, which Saman overheard. ''He said: 'I've warned you many times. Why are you still doing this?' '' Saman recalled. Whether Lolo's worry was infidelity or simply what others might think is unclear from Saman's story. After the argument, he said,-- Ann appeared in the house with a towel pressed to her face and blood running from her nose. It is difficult to know what to make of the nearly 40-year-old recollection. No one else I interviewed suggested there was ever violence between Ann and Lolo, a man many people described as patient and sweet-tempered.
When one fellow teacher, an Indonesian man whom Ann befriended, asked about her husband in 1968 or 1969, she told him grimly: ''I'm never asked. I'm told.'' Reflecting on her marriage some years later, Ann told another Indonesian friend, Yang Suwan, resignedly: ''Don't you know that you don't argue and you don't discuss with a Javanese person? Be/cause problems don't exist with Javanese people. Time will solve problems.''
With her children, Ann made a point of being more physically affectionate than her mother had been with her, she told one friend. She was cuddly and would say, ''I love you,'' according to Maya, a hundred times a day. She was playful -- making pottery, weaving decorations, doing art projects that stretched across the room. ''I think that we benefited a great deal from her focus when we were with her, when she was beside us,'' Maya told me. ''So that made the absences hurt a little less.'' Where her children were involved, Ann was eas/ily moved to tears, even occasionally when speaking about them to friends. She preferred humor to harping, but she was exacting about the things she believed mattered most. Richard Hook, who worked with Ann in Jakarta in the late 1980s and early 1990s, said she told him that she worked to instill ideas about public service in her son. She wanted Barry to have a sense of obligation, to give something back. She wanted him to start off, Hook said, with the attitudes and values she had taken years to learn.
''If you want to grow into a human being,'' Obama remembers her saying, ''you're going to need some values.'' When necessary, Ann was, according to two accounts, not unwilling to reinforce her message. ''She talked about disciplining Barry, including spanking him for things where he richly deserved a spanking,'' said Don Johnston, who worked with-- Ann in the early 1990s, sometimes traveling with her in Indonesia and living in the same house. Saman said that when Barry failed to finish homework sent from Hawaii by his grandmother, Ann ''would call him into his room and would spank him with his father's military belt.'' President Obama, through a spokeswoman, said his mother never resorted to physical discipline.
One evening in the house in Matraman, Saman said, he and Barry were preparing to go to sleep. They often slept in the same place -- sometimes in the bunk bed in Barry's room, sometimes on the dining-room floor or in the garden. On this occasion, Barry, who was 8 or 9 at the time, asked Saman to turn out the light. When Saman did not do it, he said, Barry hit him in the chest. When he did not react, Barry hit him harder, and Saman struck him back. Barry began to cry loudly, attracting Ann's attention. According to Saman, Ann did not respond. She seemed to realize that Barry had been in the wrong. Otherwise, Saman would not have struck him.
''We were not permitted to be rude, we were not permitted to be mean, we were not permitted to be arrogant,'' Maya told me. ''We had to have a certain humility and broad-mindedness. We had to study. . . . If we said something unkind about someone, she would try to talk about their point of view. Or, 'How would you feel?' Sort of compelling us ever toward empathy and those kinds of things and not allowing us to be selfish. That was constant, steady, daily.''
It was clear to many that Ann believed Barry, in particular, was unusually gifted. She would boast about his brains, his achievements, how brave he was. Benji Bennington, a friend of Ann's from Hawaii, told me, ''Sometimes when she talked about Barack, she'd say, 'Well, my son is so bright, he can do anything he ever wants in the world, even be president of the United States.' I re/member her saying that.'' Samardal Manan, who taught with Ann in Jakarta, remembered Ann saying something similar -- that Barry could be, or perhaps wanted to be, the first black president.
''What do you want to be when you grow up?'' Lolo asked Barry one evening, according to Saman.
''Oh, prime minister,'' Barry answered.
What mattered as much as anything to Ann, as a parent, was her children's education. But that was not simple. Indonesian schools in the late 1960s and early 1970s were inadequate; there were not enough of them, the government controlled the curriculum, teach/ers were poorly trained. Westerners sent their children to the Jakarta International School, but it was expensive and difficult to get into. Obama attended two Indonesian schools, one Catholic and one Muslim. The experience cannot have failed to have left a mark. The Java/nese, especially the Central Javanese, place an enormous emphasis on self-control. Even to sneeze was to exhibit an untoward lack of self-control, said Michael Dove, who got to know Ann when they were both anthropologists working in Java in the 1980s. ''You demonstrate an inner strength by not betraying emotion, not speaking loudly, not moving jerkily,'' he said. Self-control is inculcated through a culture of teasing, Kay Ikrana/gara told me. Her husband, known only as Ikrana/gara, said, ''People tease about skin color all the time.'' If a child allows the teasing to bother him, he is teased more. If he ignores it, it stops. ''Our ambassador said this was where Barack learned to be cool,'' Kay told me. ''If you get mad and react, you lose. If you learn to laugh and take it without any reaction, you win.''
With time, Ann's thinking about Barack's future changed. ''She had always encouraged my rapid acculturation in Indone/sia,'' he wrote in his memoir. ''It had made me relatively self-sufficient, undemanding on a tight budget, and extremely well mannered when compared with other American children. She had taught me to disdain the blend of ignorance and arrogance that too often character/ized Americans abroad. But she now had learned, just as Lolo had learned, the chasm that separated the life chances of an American from those of an Indonesian. She knew which side of the divide she wanted her child to be on. I was an American, she decided, and my true life lay elsewhere.''
In early 1971, Ann told Barry that he would be returning to Hawaii. He would live with his grandparents in Ho--nolulu and attend Punahou School, a respected prep school within walking distance of the Dunhams' apartment. ''She said that she and Maya would be joining me in Hawaii very soon -- a year, tops -- and that she'd try to make it there for Christmas,'' he wrote in ''Dreams From My Father.'' Ann's uncle Charles Payne told me he suspected that her mother, Madelyn, played a part in the decision. ''Madelyn always had a great concern about Barack getting a good education,'' he said. ''I think that was her defense against his racial mixture -- that education was the solution to whatever problems that would bring.''
As Obama later described his send-off, an Indonesian co-pilot who was a friend of Ann's escorted him to the plane ''as she and Lolo and my new sister, Maya, stood by at the gate.''
Ann uprooted Barry, at age 6, and transplanted him to Jakarta. Now she was up/rooting him again, at barely 10, and sending him back, alone. She would follow him to Hawaii only to leave him again, less than three years later.
When we spoke last July, Obama recalled those serial displacements. ''I think that was harder on a 10-year-old boy than he'd care to admit at the time,'' Obama said, sitting in a chair in the Oval Of/fice and speaking about his mother with a mix of affection and critical distance. ''When we were separated again during high school, at that point I was old enough to say, 'This is my choice, my-- decision.' But being a parent now and looking back at that, I could see -- you know what? -- that would be hard on a kid.''
He spoke about his mother with fondness, humor and a degree of candor that I had not expected. There was also in his tone at times a hint of gentle forbearance. Perhaps it was the tone of someone whose patience had been tested, by a person he loved, to the point where he had stepped back to a safer distance. Or perhaps it was the knowingness of a grown child seeing his par/ent as irredeemably human.
''She was a very strong person in her own way,'' Obama said, when I asked about Ann's limitations as a mother. ''Resilient, able to bounce back from setbacks, persistent -- the fact that she ended up finishing her dissertation. But despite all those strengths, she was not a well-organized person. And that disorganization, you know, spilled over. Had it not been for my grandparents, I think, providing some sort of safety net financially, being able to take me and my sister on at certain spots, I think my mother would have had to make some different decisions. And I think that sometimes she took for granted that, 'Well, it'll all work out, and it'll be fine.' But the fact is, it might not always have been fine, had it not been for my grandmother. . . . Had she not been there to provide that floor, I think our young lives could have been much more chaotic than they were.''
But he did not, he said, hold his mother's choices against her. Part of being an adult is seeing your parents ''as people who have their own strengths, weaknesses, quirks, longings.'' He did not believe, he said, that parents served their children well by being unhappy. If his mother had cramped her spirit, it would not have given him a happier childhood. As it was, she gave him the single most important gift a parent can give -- ''a sense of un/conditional love that was big enough that, with all the surface dis/turbances of our lives, it sustained me, entirely.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 30, about President Obama's mother, Stanley Ann Dunham, misstates the title of the book from which the article is adapted. It is ''A Singular Woman: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's Mother,'' not ''A Single Woman: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's Mother.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stanley Ann Dunham at Borobudur in Indonesia, in the early 1970s. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM FRIENDS AND FAMILY OF STANLEY ANN DUNHAM) (MM30-MM31)
PACIFIC RIM: Barack Obama and his grandfather, Stanley Armour Dunham (top) in Hawaii. Obama, 9, with his stepfather, Lolo Soetoro, his mother, Ann, and his sister, Maya, in Indonesia in 1970 (bottom). (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE OBAMA PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN/AP PHOTO) (MM33)
HAWAII TIME: Barack Obama with his father at the Honolulu airport at Christmas in 1971 (top) and with his mother at the Punahou School commencement in 1979. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA/AP PHOTO
 FRIENDS AND FAMILY OF STANLEY ANN DUNHAM) (MM34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); RELIGION (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (93%); INDONESIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



548 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Ruby Tuesday, Maryville, Tenn., named People Ideas and Culture, New York, as the lead creative agency for its restaurant chain, which had not had a lead agency since 2009. Spending was estimated at $11 million last year and may be increased for 2011.
Radio Flyer, Chicago, the toy company, selected McKinney, Durham, N.C., as agency of record to work on tasks like print ads, direct marketing, online advertising and social media. The company did not have a previous agency. Billings were not disclosed. 
People
Kathy McCuskey joined Yamamoto Moss Mackenzie, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, as chief executive. She succeeds Andrew Mackenzie, who became chief marketing officer for community and state at United Healthcare. Ms. McCuskey had most recently been director for consumer marketing at Starkey Laboratories, Eden Prairie, Minn.
Phil Ouellette, partner and senior vice president at Lindsay Stone & Briggs, Madison, Wis., was promoted to president and chief operating officer, a new post.
Mauro Cavalletti and Perry Fair joined Mullen, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as co-chief digital officers, which are new posts. Mr. Cavalletti had been executive creative director at the San Francisco office of R/GA, also part of Interpublic. Mr. Fair had been executive creative director at Grey New York, which is part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, owned by WPP.
Kevin Roddy joined Publicis & Hal Riney, San Francisco, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe, as chief creative officer. He succeeds Roger Camp, who recently opened an agency in San Francisco, Camp & King, with Jamie King. Mr. Roddy had most recently been chief creative officer at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, which is minority owned by Publicis. Mr. Roddy will oversee the creative output of Publicis & Hal Riney as well as the San Francisco office of the Publicis Modem unit of Publicis Worldwide, which is being aligned with Publicis & Hal Riney. Kristi VandenBosch, chief executive of Publicis & Hal Riney, will also oversee the operations of Publicis Modem San Francisco.
Jim Elliott joined Y&R New York as chief creative officer. He assumes duties from Scott Vitrone and Ian Reichenthal, who were co-executive creative directors; they left to become the executive creative directors of the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy. Y&R New York is part of the Y&R division of Young & Rubicam Brands, part of WPP.
David Weinstock joined Mr. Youth, New York, as executive creative director, a new post. He had been a creative director at Euro RSCG New York, which is the New York office of Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas.
Miscellany
Commarco, a German agency company that owns the agency Scholz & Friends, Hamburg, agreed to be acquired by WPP, Dublin. Financial terms were not disclosed. A potential wrinkle in the deal is Lowe Deutschland, a joint venture between Scholz and Lowe & Partners Worldwide, which is owned by a competitor of WPP, the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Hoffman York, Chicago and Milwaukee, was renamed HY Connect.
General Mills has become the first big consumer products marketer to offer consumers a daily deal with Groupon, the social shopping Web site. The offer, available last week in Minneapolis and San Francisco, featured a dozen familiar General Mills brands like Betty Crocker, Green Giant, Hamburger Helper and Kix. The offer was billed as $40 worth of groceries for $20 and also included a booklet with $15 worth of coupons.
A report from Barclays Capital predicted that for the first time, cable channels would take in as much as the broadcast networks in the advance advertising sales season known as the upfront market. The ad revenue commitments for each ahead of the 2011-12 television season will total $9.23 billion, according to the report; both figures would be records if they came to pass. A $9.23 billion take for the broadcasters would represent a gain of 7.5 percent compared with how they fared last spring, during the 2010-11 upfront market. A $9.23 billion take for the cable channels would represent an increase of 15.3 percent from how they fared during the 2010-11 upfront market.
The Chrysler Group is seeking to build on the positive response to a commercial for the Chrysler 200 that appeared during Super Bowl XLV and featured Eminem. New commercials for the Chrysler 300, to appear in May, continue the theme of the Super Bowl spot, ''Imported from Detroit,'' and feature celebrities who, like Eminem, have ties to Detroit. Appearing in the spots for the 300 are Dr. Dre, the record producer who works with Eminem; Ndamukong Suh, who plays for the Detroit Lions; and the designer John Varvatos, who is from Detroit. The ''Imported from Detroit'' campaign is created by Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore.
A survey of the leaders of independent agencies that belong to the Worldwide Partners network found that they were more confident about the business climate in March than they had been in December. The survey showed that executives who head agencies in North America were more optimistic than those who head agencies in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Retailers, which spend more on Internet advertising than any other type of marketer, will continue to increase their budgets for online ads, according to a report from eMarketer. Retailers are expected to account for $5.7 billion of the total for 2011 of $28.5 billion, the report forecast, and for $6.57 billion of the total for 2012 of $32.6 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (79%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (77%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); DIRECT MARKETING (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); TOYS & GAMES (57%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (95%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); WPP PLC (85%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (80%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); HAVAS SA (58%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); RUBY TUESDAY INC (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); LINDSAY STONE & BRIGGS (56%); PUBLICIS MODEM INC (53%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (94%); IPG (NYSE) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (85%); WPP (LSE) (85%); HAV (PAR) (58%); RT (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (85%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (73%); MADISON, WI, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); WISCONSIN, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



549 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Struggling St. Louis Airport Takes a Shot to the Chin, but Recovers

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
ST. LOUIS -- The gleaming Gateway Arch that presides over the downtown riverfront may be the architectural symbol for this Midwestern metropolis, but its true gateway was built a decade earlier just outside city limits -- the Lambert-St. Louis International Airport.
And despite its utilitarian function, the airport's main terminal is a celebrated structure in its own right, welcoming arrivals for more than a half-century and winning praise as an inspiration for modern airport design. 
So local residents reacted with alarm to the news that a tornado Friday night had cut a path of destruction directly into the airport, causing enough damage to force the city to temporarily close the transportation hub.
''To know what it was and to see what it is now, I'm just devastated,'' Vicki Ware, an administrative assistant at the airport, said after arriving on her day off to assist.
Bruised but operational and smelling strongly of plywood, the airport reopened for much of its inbound and outbound traffic on Sunday. As construction workers continued to board up blown-out windows in the main terminal, as well as turning to the more serious repair work in a damaged concourse that had part of its roof torn off, the business of ferrying passengers resumed with surprising normalcy.
Meg Stowe, a 37-year-old teacher traveling with her two daughters, said she was shocked not only by the damage but also by the fact that their flight home to Rhode Island had not been canceled.
''The speed with which they got this airport up and running is impressive,'' she said.
Falling on the eve of the Easter holiday weekend, the daylong shutdown had limited economic impact on the city, though officials said it would cost millions of dollars to repair the airport damage. ''We're all committed to rebuilding this and making it look as it did beforehand as an iconic destination airport in the heartland,'' Gov. Jay Nixon said after touring the scene.
No one was seriously injured in the tornadoes, which also destroyed or damaged hundreds of homes in the surrounding neighborhoods.
For all the complaints they may inspire, airports have become the welcome mats of major American cities, usually shuffled through without observation but often offering telling details about the personality of a place. And this one -- with a storied past and uncertain future -- seems to embody the changing fortunes of the city it serves.
When the new terminal opened in 1956 at the city-owned airport on the site of an old balloon launching field -- nearly 10 years before the Gateway Arch would be completed on the bank of the Mississippi River -- it was a testament to the ambitions and influence of a city that was still the country's eighth largest.
The domed concrete terminal, capped in copper and featuring enormous arched windows, was the work of the architect Minoru Yamasaki, best known for designing the World Trade Center in New York. Similar design elements soon appeared at airports in New York and Paris.
''We were really out to create the imagery of St. Louis,'' said Gyo Obata, who directed the project.
Yet, as so many other airports of the era have outgrown those early terminals because of increased passenger volume, this one is instead cursed with ''excess capacity,'' its unused concourses testifying to a shrinking city that openly worries about whether its best days may be behind it.
After another decade of decline, the population of St. Louis stands at 319,000, according to the latest census figures, less than half the peak of 857,000 in the decade when the airport was built.
Meanwhile, partly as a result of the merger that ended Trans World Airlines, the airport is no longer one of the busiest in the country; the number of annual passengers dropped to 12.3 million last year, from 30.6 million a decade earlier. Part of the main terminal was closed, the rest was regarded as aging poorly. (A second terminal operated by Southwest Airlines opened in 1998 and was largely unaffected by the storm.)
St. Louis, responding to the grumbling of residents and business leaders, was in the midst of a $70 million renovation when the tornado -- the most powerful to hit the city in over four decades -- undid some of the recent progress, toppling newly erected signs, exposing freshly painted walls to the elements and leaving the whole place littered with glass.
City leaders like Richard C. D. Fleming, the chief executive of the St. Louis Regional Chamber and Growth Association, said they were adjusting to changes in the aviation industry by promoting the airport as a potential cargo hub for Chinese products.
And the building remains a source of community pride. The St. Louis Art Museum opened an exhibition this month featuring work inspired by the airport that, according to the accompanying literature, ''transformed the landscape of postwar airport design, successfully formalizing the concept of flight through its architecture.''
Mr. Obata, a founding partner at the firm HOK, has now worked on a number of airports around the world -- including those in Dallas, Indianapolis and Saudi Arabia -- but admits partiality to the airport he helped build in his hometown.
After the tornado struck, Mr. Obata traveled to the airport to see the damage but was not surprised that the main terminal, broken glass aside, had largely withstood the assault.
''Nothing will hurt that structure,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gyo Obata directed the airport construction project in the 1950s and is still partial to the results. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (74%); CITIES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); EASTER SEASON (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



550 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
REBELS IN LIBYA'S WEST FACE
LONG ODDS AGAINST QADDAFI
Having put down more serious challenges to his rule in towns on Libya's northern coast, Muammar el-Qaddafi has massed troops along the mountains and launched missile assaults on its towns, according to residents and rebel fighters. PAGE A4 
WORRIES ON NIGERIA VIOLENCE
The death toll and destruction from a wave of election-related violence in Nigeria this week may exceed similar outbursts of the past, though the underlying causes remain the same, experts said. PAGE A14
National
STRUGGLING ST. LOUIS AIRPORT
TAKES A SHOT TO THE CHIN
St. Louis residents reacted with alarm to the news that a tornado Friday night had cut a path of urban destruction directly into the Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, causing enough damage to force the city to temporarily close the transportation hub. PAGE A14
DEBATING CORPORATE TAXES
The Obama administration is preparing to inject an unpredictable new variable into its economic policy clash with Republicans: a plan to overhaul corporate taxes. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A15
New York
FOR YOUTH RAISED ON IPODS,
SOME LESSONS IN BRIDGE
Chess is still the game of choice among educators, but bridge is catching on at a growing number of schools, community leagues and recreational centers across the nation, many of which see the card game as offering similar mental benefits as chess, but with a social component. PAGE A20
Business
IN GALLEON CASE, SPOTLIGHT
ON EX-GOLDMAN DIRECTOR
Rajat K. Gupta, once one of the world's most respected businessmen, is not being tried nor has he been charged criminally for any involvement the government's biggest insider trading case in a generation. Yet hardly a day has passed when he is not mentioned in the trial of Raj Rajaratnam, who ran the Galleon Group hedge fund. PAGE B1
DVRS GIVE SHOWS A LIFELINE
The digital video recorder was supposed to lay waste to network television. Instead, the device is offering some shows a lifeline and could alter calculations made by network executives who decide the fates of shows on the ratings bubble. PAGE B1
Obituaries
JOEL COLTON, 92
He was a historian, and collaborated on a textbook, ''A History of the Modern World,'' that introduced generations of college students to modern history. PAGE A21
Arts
RUSSIAN CONDUCTOR SAYS
ORCHESTRA IS A PHANTOM
A photograph on the Web site for Columbia Artists Management depicted an elegant array of orchestra musicians in a glowing hall, in advance of a major American tour planned for next year a ''Tschaikowski'' St. Petersburg State Orchestra. But according to one of Russia's best-known conductors, Yuri Temirkanov, the pictures are of other ensembles, and the ''Tschaikowski'' does not exist. PAGE C1
Sports
A VOICE FOR N.F.L. RETIREES
AMID THE DIN
George Martin, who played 14 seasons for the Giants, became the president of the N.F.L. Alumni Association roughly 19 months ago. His charge: to transform a charitable organization into the voice for retired players, to merge a multitude of factions, to forge improved relationships with the league and its players union, which recently decertified. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A25
Ross Douthat PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (86%); AIRPORTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEB SITES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (67%); CARD GAMES (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (63%); INSIDER TRADING (63%); NETWORK TELEVISION (62%); CD & DVD DRIVES (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); MUSIC (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: COLUMBIA ARTISTS MANAGEMENT LLC (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%) NIGERIA (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



551 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1144 words

PERSON: Norio Ohga 

HEADLINE: Norio Ohga Dies at 81; Led Sony Past Electronics

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Norio Ohga, a onetime opera singer who plunged into consumer electronics, shaped the development of the compact disc, and rose to become chairman and chief executive of the Sony Corporation, died on Saturday in Tokyo. He was 81.
The cause was multiple organ failure, the company said in a statement.
Mr. Ohga was the principal architect of Sony's move beyond its stronghold of sleek consumer electronics gear and into music and movies. The biggest steps came when Sony bought CBS Records for $2 billion in 1988 and, a year later, Columbia Pictures for $3.4 billion.
At the time, when Japan Inc. seemed unstoppable, those acquisitions -- along with a Japanese real estate company's purchase of most of Rockefeller Center -- were symbols of Japan's rising economic power and wealth. There was worried talk of the Japanese commercial ''invasion'' and the loss of American ''cultural assets.'' 
But to Mr. Ohga the goal was a kind of industrial synthesis, marrying Sony's technical wizardry in electronics with the West's talent in entertainment. In a statement, Howard Stringer, the current chief executive of Sony, said it was Mr. Ohga's vision that drove ''Sony's evolution beyond audio and video products into music, movies and game, and subsequent transformation into a global entertainment leader.''
Still, Mr. Ohga wanted to do more than expand Sony's corporate empire. Linking electronics and entertainment, in his view, would increase the value of each and secure a lucrative future for Sony. ''Hardware and software are two wheels on a car,'' he explained repeatedly over the years.
There were good years in Sony's media businesses. But the real payoff from the electronics hardware and the entertainment software, each lifting the sales of the other, proved elusive. When Mr. Ohga spoke of software, industry analysts say, he was thinking of the kind that comes from Hollywood, not Silicon Valley.
The vision Mr. Ohga championed for years, those analysts say, has come to fruition at Apple, in a different guise. That company, they note, has combined beautifully designed devices, like iPods and iPhones, with software for making media easy to consume and buy.
Apple does not own music companies or movie studios, but it controls an online marketplace where media are purchased.
''Sony was a great product company, and Ohga made it better,'' said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''But Sony did not really get software or the Internet. That wasn't Ohga's domain.''
Born on Jan. 29, 1930, in Numazu, 80 miles west of Tokyo, Norio Ohga grew up in affluence, the son of a wealthy lumber trader. As a child he had pleurisy, an inflammation in the chest, so during the war years he was exempted from working at the nearby military factories, where many Japanese youths labored. Instead, he practiced the piano and took singing lessons.
''By the time I was 18 I knew I wanted to be a vocalist,'' Mr. Ohga said in an interview with The New York Times in 1990. ''So just after the war, I had to come to Tokyo.''
Mr. Ohga enrolled in the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music, and soon demonstrated his strong voice and his forceful opinions about a tape recorder that had just been introduced by the company that would become Sony. Mr. Ohga wrote a letter to Sony's co-founder, Akio Morita, detailing the machine's shortcomings for professional musicians and singers.
Mr. Morita, fascinated by the aspiring opera singer's technical knowledge, met with him and signed him up as a part-time consultant. In 1954, Mr. Ohga left for West Germany to study music and to start a professional singing career that led to performances throughout Europe and Japan. Yet Mr. Morita kept Mr. Ohga on the payroll and stayed in touch.
In 1957, when Mr. Ohga married Midori Matsubara, a pianist he had met in Germany, Mr. Morita and Sony's elder co-founder, Masaru Ibuka, attended the wedding.
Mr. Ohga eventually surrendered to Mr. Morita's persistence. He joined Sony as a full-time employee in 1959.
Within a few years, Mr. Ohga was placed in charge of the company's design center. ''The sleek, matte black finishes and other touches that would make products 'Sony looking' were largely his doing, his taste,'' said John Nathan, a professor of Japanese studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and the author of ''Sony: The Private Life'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1999).
Mr. Ohga was also given considerable sway over advertising, branding and even product development. As a rising young executive he was an imposing presence: tanned, meticulously dressed, imperious in manner. He was also a skilled jet pilot.
In the late 1970s, Sony and Philips demonstrated working compact discs, but the standards for the emerging technology were still in flux. Mr. Ohga worked closely with Sony engineers and regularly traveled to the Philips laboratory in the Netherlands, pushing for a larger format with longer playing time. He insisted on a recording capacity of 75 minutes, so listeners could enjoy all of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony without interruption.
Sony introduced the first compact disc as a product in 1982. It would change the way people listen to music.
In Mr. Ohga's design philosophy, the steady miniaturization of electronics was to make devices not merely smaller but also more intimate, creating a one-to-one relationship between people and machines -- the theory of the Walkman, introduced in 1979, and other Sony successes.
Games held that kind of interactive potential. And Mr. Ohga championed the development of the Sony PlayStation video game player, a new product category, which was introduced in 1994.
Mr. Ohga became president of Sony in 1982, chief executive in 1989 and chairman in 1994. A year later he declared that his successor would be Nobuyuki Idei, plucked from relative obscurity in the management ranks. In 1999 Mr. Idei became chief executive, while Mr. Ohga stayed on as chairman until 2000. Mr. Idei expanded on Mr. Ohga's vision of combining electronics and media, but Sony struggled under him. In 2005, he was replaced by Mr. Stringer.
Mr. Ohga is survived by his wife, Midori.
Over the years, Mr. Ohga would at times profess his desire to depart the executive offices at Sony and return to music. He never did, but owning a major music company had its privileges, including the chance to take the baton a few times as the guest conductor of symphony orchestras.
In a review of his performance at Avery Fisher Hall in 1993, Bernard Holland wrote in The Times that Mr. Ohga had ''a dignified and graceful presence at the podium,'' but was not an accomplished conductor. The musicians played beautifully, it seemed, even if the conductor could not always keep up.
''The Met players,'' Mr. Holland wrote, ''seemed genuinely to like Mr. Ohga and did their best to take care of him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Norio Ohga, in 2000, was a professional singer before joining Sony full time. He moved Sony into movies and music. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO BENSCH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MUSIC (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FILM (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); SMARTPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%)

HOWARD STRINGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



552 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: In Sing Sing's Hometown, Many Dream of Day 'the Big House' Closes

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
OSSINING, N.Y. -- In economically ailing communities in upstate New York, residents and lawmakers are bracing themselves for bad news: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's list of prisons that will be closed to save money.
Prisons are a major source of jobs in a number of upstate towns and villages, and residents have warned about the impact of any closings.
''The area I represent in northern New York, it's very rural and we built an economy around these facilities,'' State Senator Betty Little, a Republican who represents much of the Adirondacks, said in January.
But in Ossining, an evolving Hudson River village that is a 45-minute commute from Midtown Manhattan, legislators and residents are making the opposite argument: They are pleading with the governor to shut down the prison in their midst. 
Of course, it is no ordinary prison. It is Sing Sing, the spot where Willie Sutton spent time for robbing banks, where Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed in the electric chair for spying and where Hollywood gangsters like James Cagney were dispatched to spend time ''up the river.''
Local officials argue that the passage of time has made Sing Sing an awkward fit for its locale. What was once a blue-collar village suitable for the rough-and-tumble of prisoners and guards has become an upscale suburb fit for backyard cocktail parties and the Don Draper-like commuters depicted in television's ''Mad Men.'' (He lived in Ossining until his divorce.)
''They would never have built a maximum-security prison in a place like this today,'' said Richard Wishnie, a former Westchester County legislator.
Several local and state lawmakers wrote a letter to Mr. Cuomo this month asking that he close ''the Big House,'' as Sing Sing has been called, and move its 1,725 inmates to a new or refurbished prison upstate, where communities would welcome the jobs.
They proposed that Sing Sing's 60-acre riverside property be turned into condos and shops that will generate more taxes for local government and elevate property values.
What gave the letter writers and many residents glimmers of hope was the budget deal struck between the governor and the Legislature, which required the elimination of 3,700 prison beds for a saving of $72 million.
But officials in the governor's office and the state prison system suggest that any thoughts of closing Sing Sing may be pie-in-the-sky.
Speaking on the condition of anonymity because no firm sites have been chosen for closure, these officials pointed out that the executive order the governor issued specifically emphasized the elimination of minimum- and medium-security prisons, where there are more empty beds, and not maximum-security prisons, like Sing Sing, for murderers and others convicted of major crime.
But that seemingly insurmountable hurdle has not stopped many of Ossining's 24,000 residents from making a forceful appeal. Sandra Galef, a Democratic assemblywoman who represents the village, cannot forget the day in 1977 that the governor at the time, Hugh L. Carey, traveled by helicopter to Ossining and in response to requests by town leaders, promised to close Sing Sing.
Residents crave the transformation of the village center's landscape, still gritty in spots, and the hefty taxes that would finance Ossining's schools and upkeep.
''The property the prison is on is one of the most beautiful pieces of real estate in the world,'' said Eric Schatz, a real estate broker who lives one block away.
''The views are phenomenal. You're looking across the river at parkland, and in the evening you look across and the only light you see is a lighthouse. The color of sunsets there you won't find anywhere else in the world.''
His rapturous prose may carry overtones of F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''The Great Gatsby,'' but the campaign to close Sing Sing has more to do with the world described by John Cheever, the bard of suburbia, who long lived in Ossining.
Once a heavily industrial village, Ossining has for decades now drawn hundreds of transplants from New York City looking for homes a modest commute from Manhattan that come with glorious river views. ''Up the River'' has evolved from a synonym for going to prison to one for trading Manhattan's hurly-burly for waterside calm.
Jobs for Ossining residents seem to be less of an issue. Mr. Schatz, noting that because housing prices are high, says that few of the 824 correctional employees reside in town. So closing the prison, he argues, would not hurt local employment.
Most guards, he and others said, live upstate and cycle through Sing Sing for training, renting apartments in nearby cities or occupying a dozen trailers on the prison property.
But legislators representing New York City and advocates for prisoners' rights have long maintained that putting prisons hundreds of miles away from the inmates' homes in the city deprives them of family ties that could help keep them out of trouble when they are released.
Sing Sing opened around 1825 when rivers were the chief mode of heavy transport and factories usually settled on the banks. The surrounding village was also called Sing Sing, after an Indian tribe, but by the early 1900s the prison had become so notorious -- consumers thought that a product manufactured in Sing Sing must have been made by inmates -- that the village and the larger town, which includes part of Briarcliff Manor, changed their names to Ossining.
Today the prison is an imposing fortress, a cluster of brick cellblocks surrounded by concrete walls that are 25 feet tall in stretches and are crowned at intervals by green, gazebo-like guard towers.
While it has been 25 years since an escape (Sutton broke out in 1932), residents say the prison by its very appearance remains a chilling presence.
''It scares me a little,'' said Ana Ribeiro, 18, a waitress at Cidade Cafe on Main Street. ''They have everything under control, but if they do have the option, I'd rather they take the prison out of here.''
Supporters of shutting Sing Sing envision the prison's being leveled, with perhaps one building saved to be a museum that would draw tourists to Ossining as Alcatraz, a prison that closed decades ago, does to San Francisco. A new prison would then be built upstate to hold the inmates.
But a burly prison guard, sitting outside a trailer with two colleagues and speaking only on the condition that he not be identified because of department rules against talking with reporters, pointed out one drawback to idea of shutting the famous prison.
''You couldn't build a place like this, with all the concrete and steel, for all the money in the world,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about sentiment among local officials and residents in Ossining, N.Y., in favor of closing the Sing Sing prison misstated the current occupation of Richard Wishnie, who said, ''They would never have built a maximum-security prison in a place like this today.'' He is a lobbyist, not a Westchester County legislator. (Mr. Wishnie served in the county legislature from 1993 to 2003.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sing Sing has not had an escape in 25 years. Unlike some New York State communities, Ossining, which is increasingly upscale, does not depend heavily on its prison as a source of jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRISONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (67%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



553 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Let's Take A Hike

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
When I listen to current discussions of the federal budget, the message I hear sounds like this: We're in crisis! We must take drastic action immediately! And we must keep taxes low, if not actually cut them further!
You have to wonder: If things are that serious, shouldn't we be raising taxes, not cutting them? 
My description of the budget debate is in no way an exaggeration. Consider the Ryan budget proposal, which all the Very Serious People assured us was courageous and important. That proposal begins by warning that ''a major debt crisis is inevitable'' unless we confront the deficit. It then calls, not for tax increases, but for tax cuts, with taxes on the wealthy falling to their lowest level since 1931.
And because of those large tax cuts, the only way the Ryan proposal can even claim to reduce the deficit is through savage cuts in spending, mainly falling on the poor and vulnerable. (A realistic assessment suggests that the proposal would actually increase the deficit.)
President Obama's proposal is a lot better. At least it calls for raising taxes on high incomes back to Clinton-era levels. But it preserves the rest of the Bush tax cuts -- cuts that were originally sold as a way to dispose of a large budget surplus. And, as a result, it still relies heavily on spending cuts, even as it falls short of actually balancing the budget.
So why isn't someone offering a proposal reflecting the reality that the Bush tax cuts were a huge mistake, and suggesting that increased revenue play a major role in deficit reduction? Actually, someone is -- and I'll get to that in a moment. First, though, let's talk about the current state of American taxes.
From the tone of much budget discussion, you might think that we were groaning under crushing, unprecedented levels of taxation. The reality is that effective federal tax rates at every level of income have fallen significantly over the past 30 years, especially at the top. And, over all, U.S. taxes are much lower as a percentage of national income than taxes in most other wealthy nations.
The point is that we aren't that heavily taxed, either by historical standards or in comparison with other nations. So if you're truly horrified by the budget deficit, why not propose tax increases as part of the solution?
Wait, there's more. The core of the Ryan proposal is a plan to privatize and defund Medicare. Yet this would do nothing to reduce the deficit over the next 10 years, which is why all the near-term deficit reduction comes from brutal reductions in aid to the needy and unspecified cuts in discretionary spending. Tax increases, by contrast, can be fast-acting remedies for red ink.
And that's why the only major budget proposal out there offering a plausible path to balancing the budget is the one that includes significant tax increases: the ''People's Budget'' from the Congressional Progressive Caucus, which -- unlike the Ryan plan, which was just right-wing orthodoxy with an added dose of magical thinking -- is genuinely courageous because it calls for shared sacrifice.
True, it increases revenue partly by imposing substantially higher taxes on the wealthy, which is popular everywhere except inside the Beltway. But it also calls for a rise in the Social Security cap, significantly raising taxes on around 6 percent of workers. And, by rescinding many of the Bush tax cuts, not just those affecting top incomes, it would modestly raise taxes even on middle-income families.
All of this, combined with spending cuts mostly focused on defense, is projected to yield a balanced budget by 2021. And the proposal achieves this without dismantling the legacy of the New Deal, which gave us Social Security, and the Great Society, which gave us Medicare and Medicaid.
But if the progressive proposal has all these virtues, why isn't it getting anywhere near as much attention as the much less serious Ryan proposal? It's true that it has no chance of becoming law anytime soon. But that's equally true of the Ryan proposal.
The answer, I'm sorry to say, is the insincerity of many if not most self-proclaimed deficit hawks. To the extent that they care about the deficit at all, it takes second place to their desire to do precisely what the People's Budget avoids doing, namely, tear up our current social contract, turning the clock back 80 years under the guise of necessity. They don't want to be told that such a radical turn to the right is not, in fact, necessary.
But, it isn't, as the progressive budget proposal shows. We do need to bring the deficit down, although we aren't facing an immediate crisis. How we go about stemming the tide of red ink is, however, a choice -- and by making tax increases part of the solution, we can avoid savaging the poor and undermining the security of the middle class.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); PRIVATIZATION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



554 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: A Fight Over How Drugs Are Pitched

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Before pharmaceutical company marketers call on a doctor, they do their homework. These salespeople typically pore over electronic profiles bought from data brokers, dossiers that detail the brands and amounts of drugs a particular doctor has prescribed. It is a marketing practice that some health care professionals have come to hate.
''It's very powerful data and it's easy to understand why drug companies want it,'' said Dr. Norman S. Ward, a family physician in Burlington, Vt. ''If they know the prescribing patterns of physicians, it could be very powerful information in trying to sway their behavior -- like, why are you prescribing a lot of my competitor's drug and not mine?''
Marketing to doctors using prescription records bearing their names is an increasingly contentious practice, with three states, Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, in the vanguard of enacting laws to limit the uses of a doctor's prescription records for marketing. 
On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in a case, Sorrell v. IMS Health, that tests whether Vermont's prescription confidentiality law violates the free speech protections of the First Amendment.
The case is being closely watched not only by drug makers and data collection firms, but also by health regulators, doctors and consumer advocates who say the decision will have profound implications for doctors' control over their prescription histories, and for information privacy, medical decision-making and health care costs.
Vermont's attorney general, William H. Sorrell, petitioned the court to review the case after three leading data collection firms including IMS Health, a health information company, and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a drug industry trade group, challenged the state statute. Although the federal district court in Vermont originally upheld the law, an appellate court reversed the decision last November.
The federal government, the attorneys general of several dozen states, AARP, professional medical associations, privacy groups and the New England Journal of Medicine have filed briefs in support of Vermont's law. The National Association of Chain Drugstores,the Association of National Advertisers and news organizations like Bloomberg and The Associated Press have filed briefs aligning themselves with the data firms.
The concern over marketing based on doctor-specific prescription records revolves around the argument that it makes commercial use of private health treatment decisions -- initiated in nonpublic consultations between doctor and patient, and completed in government-regulated transactions with pharmacists.
The data has become more available because pharmacies, which are required by law to collect and maintain detailed files about each prescription filled, can sell records containing a doctor's name and address, along with the amount of the drug prescribed, to data brokers. (The records are shorn of patient names and certain other personal details covered by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, known as H.I.P.A.A., the federal legislation governing a patient's privacy.) Data brokers in turn aggregate the records for use in medical research and marketing.
Drug makers spent about $6.3 billion on marketing visits to doctors in 2009, the last year that such figures were available, according to IMS Health. Access to a doctor's prescription history, drug makers say, helps ensure that information about the latest prescription drug options quickly reaches specialists who treat particular conditions.
But some federal regulators and medical societies argue that drug makers are simply mining the data to identify and go after the doctors who would be most likely to prescribe the latest, most expensive brand-name medicines -- driving up health care costs and exposing patients to newer drugs whose side effects may not yet be fully known.
Vermont enacted its prescription confidentiality law with the idea that drug makers do not have an inherent right to a doctor's identifiable prescription information for use in marketing because the data originated in highly government-regulated, nonpublic health care transactions, said Mr. Sorrell, the Vermont attorney general.
''Does 'Ajax Incorporated' have a constitutional unfettered right to the data for commercial purposes,'' Mr. Sorrell said, ''or is it legitimate to give the doctor who is writing the prescription a say over whether that information should be used for marketing?''
Although the state law does not inhibit pharmaceutical sales representatives from marketing to doctors in their offices, he said, it does give doctors the right to consent before their prescribing information may be sold and used for marketing. If a doctor does not agree, he said, pharmacies must remove or encrypt the doctor's name, just as they do for patients, before they sell this type of record for promotional use.
Even if the Supreme Court were to find that the law infringes on free speech, Mr. Sorrell added, the justices could still uphold the law on the grounds that the state has a legitimate interest in containing the higher medical costs and safety risks that can be associated with the newest drugs.
But industry representatives contend that Vermont should not be allowed to cherry-pick certain approved uses for the records in question while restricting those that conflict with what the law's opponents say is the state's apparent agenda: promoting less expensive generic drugs in an effort to lower health care costs.
Vermont allows those records to be used in research and by law enforcement, said Thomas C. Goldstein, a lawyer representing IMS Health. Moreover, he said, drug makers are allowed to buy the very same records so they can identify doctors whose patients might be good candidates for clinical trials or communicate drug safety updates.
''The one exception is that drug companies cannot use the data to combat the insurers' and the state's messages about their products,'' Mr. Goldstein argued.
He added that pharmacies obtain the information through business transactions that are no different than any other, making the physician records no more private than stock quotes or commodity prices.
''It's all data,'' he said, ''and it's all protected by the First Amendment.''
Moreover, such laws reduce the ability of drug makers to quickly communicate with specialists about new drugs for rare diseases, a situation that could make it prohibitive for, say, a small biotechnology company with a tiny sales force to market a breakthrough medication, said Randy Frankel, the vice president for external affairs at IMS Health.
''Without the data, you might visit 1,000 physicians to identify the 10 whose patients might most benefit,'' Mr. Frankel said. ''With the data, you would go to the 10.''
But some consumer advocates say the real issue in the case is the confidentiality of information that people submit in government-regulated transactions that they would not otherwise make public.
''If the court is not going to protect personal and confidential health records,'' said Wells Wilkinson, a staff lawyer at Community Catalyst, a nonprofit group that filed a brief in support of Vermont, ''how could any consumer transaction be protected?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (89%); US HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY & ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); PETITIONS (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); INTERNET PRIVACY (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (68%); CONSUMER LAW (68%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (64%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (55%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



555 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Civic Group Says That Concessions Are Needed From the Construction Unions

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A prominent civic group has joined builders and real estate executives in calling for major concessions from the unions that dominate the construction industry, saying cuts are needed to allow major projects to move forward.
The group, the Regional Plan Association, is supported by corporations, including some connected to real estate, and by planning groups in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. It is a respected organization known more for advocacy on transportation issues and large public works than for taking sides in labor matters.
But the association has quietly circulated a 51-page report saying that the expiration of 30 union contracts in June presents a chance to reform the $25 billion unionized construction industry by eliminating what the report calls obsolete work rules and featherbedding; by adopting a standard eight-hour day for all building trades; and by reducing benefit packages. 
Members of the association are scheduled to present the report, ''Construction Labor Costs in New York City -- A Moment of Opportunity,'' to Deputy Mayors Stephen Goldsmith and Robert K. Steel on Monday.
''Given the wrenching changes in the real estate industry since the recession,'' said Robert Yaro, the president of the Regional Plan Association, ''a growing number of builders have found that they can no longer support high labor costs.''
''This is not about what union workers are paid,'' he added. ''It's about work rules and productivity. Those are things that should be changed.''
The labor negotiations come at a critical time for the construction industry, as a growing number of buildings in the city are being constructed with cheaper, nonunion labor.
The Building Trades Employers' Association, a group that represents contractors, has paid for subway advertisements and a Web site directly appealing to union members to agree to concessions, angering union leadership in the process.
This month, 400 union construction workers held a noisy protest outside the Taj Pierre Hotel as Sam Zell, founder of Equity Residential Properties, arrived for a speaking engagement. Mr. Zell's company is building an apartment building at 500 West 23rd Street with nonunion labor.
The construction unions dismissed the report, saying its authors were antagonistic to labor unions. They were referring to Julia Vitullo-Martin and Hope Cohen, former associates of the conservative Manhattan Institute who now work at the Regional Plan Association and prepared the report.
''So individuals with longstanding right-wing, anti-worker associations and views want to blame labor for our economic problems,'' said Paul Fernandes, a spokesman for Gary LaBarbera, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council, a union umbrella group.
''This draft report is rife with factual errors and omissions that reveal its underlying ideology,'' he added.
''The only thing missing from this piece of garbage is the Koch brothers and the governor of Wisconsin.''
The once cordial relationship between Mr. LaBarbera, whose group represents about 100,000 workers, and Louis J. Coletti, president of the Building Trades Employers' Association, has become strained. Mr. LaBarbera ''won't sit in the same room with Coletti,'' said a union lawyer who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter.
Real estate and construction executives said they were not trying to create a ''Wisconsin,'' referring to political efforts in Wisconsin and elsewhere to strip union workers of bargaining rights.
''This is about saving the industry,'' Mr. Yaro said. ''It is by no means an attack on the unions.''
The Real Estate Board of New York, a powerful lobbying group that represents most of the city's residential and commercial developers, the contractors' group and now the Regional Plan Association have conducted a campaign to enlist City Hall, in the hope that the mayor would use his influence on their behalf. But the Bloomberg administration has thus far seemed unwilling to insert itself into the labor dispute.
The association's report says developers and owners, who absorbed the higher costs of union labor during the real estate boom, are now under pressure to cut costs because of lower rents and stringent financing terms.
But the report also says that leading developers and contractors are attached to union construction work, in part because ''the best union labor continues to surpass nonunion in skills and productivity,'' and because the jobs provide ''a key channel of upward mobility for millions of Americans.''
The report describes as archaic various provisions that unions have succeeded in keeping around, in contracts that were also signed by employers.
These include the required presence of master mechanics and oilers for heavy equipment like cranes, which have become technologically advanced enough that the mechanics and oilers have very little work to do; and rules that say steamfitters, electricians and plumbers must always be around to monitor heat, electricity and water service, which the report likened to an apartment building having a full-time plumber rather than simply calling one when a leak occurs.
The report also called for eight-hour shifts to officially begin when a worker reaches his station, not when he arrives at the ground level, an issue in tall construction sites where many men are using a few hoists to get to the floors where they are working.
''To keep union firms competitive, the ongoing labor contract negotiations -- and reformed work rule practices -- must bring the union-nonunion differential closer to 10 percent from the current 20-30 percent,'' the report says.
''If this does not happen, nonunion labor is likely to gain an ever-increasing share of the market, forcing union developers and contractors to accept open-shop arrangements or leave the construction business.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CONSERVATISM (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: EQUITY RESIDENTIAL (63%)

TICKER: EQR (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (63%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



556 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Advises Trump to Drop 'Birther' Issue if He Runs

BYLINE: By JAVIER HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who once harbored presidential aspirations himself, had some advice on Sunday for another billionaire considering national office: Stay away from the ''birther'' issue. 
Mr. Bloomberg, appearing on ''Fox News Sunday,'' declared flatly that ''the President was born here,'' and suggested that Donald Trump, the real estate tycoon now exploring a presidential run, is not helping his prospective candidacy by affiliating with those who argue that President Obama was not born in the United States.
''The Republicans are making a terrible mistake in making this a big issue,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''We have immigration, we have the deficit, we have the economy. Those are the things that the public cares about.''
Still, Mr. Bloomberg called Mr. Trump a friend and ''New York icon,'' and he said that ''anybody can run for president.''
Citing the wisdom of his longtime girlfriend, Diana L. Taylor, an investment banker, Mr. Bloomberg said that what matters to the public are the issues of jobs and housing. ''If the Republican Party doesn't start addressing that,'' he said, ''they will lose and they deserve to.''
Making his first appearance on the Fox program, Mr. Bloomberg seemed to have a word of advice for everyone on Sunday. He said President Obama should spend more time wooing his political foes. ''He has to pick up the phone and call and say, 'I know we disagree on this, but I just want to say, I heard it was your wife's birthday, or your kid just got into college.' ''
He said Republicans and Democrats in Congress need to find common ground, and come up with a plan to reduce the nation's debt. ''We seem to be emphasizing our differences in this politically charged time, rather than focusing on what unites us,'' he said.
Mr. Bloomberg grew most passionate in discussing immigration, an issue he has emphasized as mayor. He said providing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants is essential to growing the economy. ''You're not going to solve the problem,'' he said, ''by yelling and screaming at those people.''
The mayor's loquaciousness on all things national seemed to beg a familiar question: Does he see the White House in his future?
''I'm not running for president,'' he said twice to Chris Wallace, the show's host. ''Is that explicit enough?''
Mr. Bloomberg told Mr. Wallace that, at a dinner in Brooklyn on Saturday night, somebody had told him he would make a great president.
''Thank you very much,'' Mr. Bloomberg said he replied, ''but I have a job.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in Coney Island last week. On TV on Sunday, he said Republicans were making ''a terrible mistake'' on the ''birther'' issue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



557 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Cutting: Who Bears the Burden?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Middle-Class Tax Trap'' (column, April 18):
Ross Douthat seems to suggest that Representative Paul D. Ryan's budget plan would actually benefit middle-class working families and racial minorities by imposing greater health care costs on the elderly, who are predominantly white. But every projection of the likely effects of the G.O.P. budget plan on various income and racial groups shows that the big winners would be the very wealthy, who are overwhelmingly white and who would see their tax burden drop considerably.
Moreover, reducing the share of medical costs paid by Medicare would not only shift more of those costs onto the elderly themselves but also onto their children and grandchildren. One of the most important benefits of Medicare and Social Security is that by providing for the needs of the elderly, these programs allow working families to improve their own standard of living and to invest more in educating their children. 
The elderly are not a separate segment of American society whose well-being has no impact on anyone but themselves. They are, in fact, our parents and grandparents.
ALAN I. ABRAMOWITZ Atlanta, April 18, 2011 The writer is a professor of political science at Emory University. To the Editor: One has to wonder why, after so many years of not raising taxes on the wealthy, we still face the high unemployment, huge deficit and grave fiscal worries that Republicans promise us will happen if the tax rates are raised. DORIS FENIG Floral Park, Queens, April 18, 2011
To the Editor:
Nearly 30 years after President Ronald Reagan used primarily white opposition to supporting ''welfare queens,'' understood to be a code for minorities, as part of his justification for cutting taxes and decreasing public assistance, Ross Douthat adroitly turns the tables. Now tax burdens on the middle class caused by entitlements will cause racial polarization because increasingly ''brown and beige'' people will be supporting ''white seniors.''
When can we stop exploiting race, subtly or not, as an argument for political choices and start focusing on our commonality as Americans? We need to have an honest discussion about what we want the social contract to be, regardless of race, color, creed, gender or sexual orientation.
CATHY KAUFMAN New York, April 18, 2011
To the Editor:
Ross Douthat writes about some hard facts that we can no longer ignore. Overtaxing the wealthy is a bandage that only delays the inevitable bankruptcy that will occur unless entitlements are reined in.
Our altruistic government continues to give its citizens money it does not have. Most government programs are directed to the most needy. Unfortunately, future cutbacks will take the greatest toll on this group of people.
Ending the dependence of poor Americans on government support is the real long-term solution to our budget deficit problem. Placing the entire burden on the wealthy is bad policy.
SALVATORE J. BOMMARITO New York, April 18, 2011
To the Editor:
Our taxes represent that portion of our wealth that our elected government has decided to spend on its programs. The problem is that our taxes are, in fact, not extracted from our wealth; rather, they are taken almost entirely from our income.
Bill Gates is not extremely wealthy because he has a very high income; he is wealthy because he owns assets of a wealth-creating company, and that stock wealth is not taxed until he sells it.
We have been able to pay for our government's expenses in the past because our national wealth has grown fast enough to raise our incomes enough to pay the rising costs. In the long run, incomes can never rise enough to provide the wealth that we will need for taxes, even if we tax high incomes at a very high rate.
The only fair way to tax is to tax net wealth, with no deductions, and no corporate taxes. CHARLES FREIFELD President AlphaMetrics Capital Management Brookline, Mass., April 18, 2011
To the Editor:
''The Budget Debate, Revealed'' (Week in Review, April 17) correctly frames the issues surrounding the United States budget in terms of our national values and priorities. Thus, I am surprised and dismayed that it did not include any discussion of the military budget.
American military expenditures are nearly as much as all other countries combined, and they are the largest component of our national budget. A forthright debate about the national budget should include a full discussion of our military expenditures and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.
JUDITH ABRAMS Newton, Mass., April 17, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); ELDER HEALTH (77%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); AGING (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); POLITICS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



558 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include new home sales for March (Monday); the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller housing price index for February and consumer confidence for April (Tuesday); durable goods orders for March (Wednesday); gross domestic product for the first quarter and initial jobless claims (Thursday); and personal income and spending for March and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for April (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Kimberly-Clark and Netflix (Monday); 3M, Amazon.com, Coca-Cola, Delta, Lockheed Martin, United Parcel Service and US Airways (Tuesday); Boeing, ConocoPhillips, Dr Pepper Snapple, Moody's, Northrop Grumman, Starbucks and Whirlpool (Wednesday); Aetna, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Colgate-Palmolive, Dow Chemical, Exxon Mobil, International Paper, Microsoft, Motorola Mobility, Motorola Solutions, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble, Pulte, Sprint Nextel, and Viacom (Thursday); and Caterpillar and Chevron (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee will issue a statement about its two-day policy meeting, followed by the first Fed press conference held by its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Also on Wednesday, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission will issue proposals spelling out definitions that will help determine the reach of swaps regulation under the Dodd-Frank law.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (83%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (70%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); NETFLIX INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); PEPSICO INC (56%); VIACOM INC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); BOEING CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (83%); COP (NYSE) (70%); KMB (NYSE) (58%); LMT (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); CL (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); NOC (NYSE) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (70%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (70%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (70%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



559 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Odd Man Out at Sea

BYLINE: By THAD W. ALLEN, RICHARD L. ARMITAGE and JOHN J. HAMRE. 
Thad W. Allen, a senior fellow at Rand, was the commandant of the Coast Guard from 2006 to 2010. Richard L. Armitage, the president of a consulting firm, was the deputy secretary of state from 2001 to 2005. John J. Hamre, the president of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, was the deputy secretary of defense from 1997 to 2000.

 BODY:
IT'S been in place for nearly 30 years; nearly 160 countries (plus the European Union) have signed it. But the United States has yet to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. As a result, the United States, the world's leading maritime power, is at a military and economic disadvantage. 
The convention codifies widely accepted principles on territorial waters (which it defines as those extending 12 miles out to sea), shipping lanes and ocean resources. It also grants each signatory exclusive fishing and mining rights within 200 miles of its coast (called the exclusive economic zone). Although the United States originally voted to create the convention and negotiated many provisions to its advantage, Congress has never ratified it.
With nearly 12,500 miles of coastline, 360 major commercial ports and the world's largest exclusive economic zone, the United States has a lot to gain from signing the convention. It is the only legal framework that exists for managing international waters; joining it would allow us to secure international recognition of a claim to the continental shelf as far as 600 miles beyond our exclusive economic zone in order to explore and conserve the resource-rich Arctic as the polar ice cap recedes. It would also provide American companies with a fair and stable legal framework to invest in mining projects in the deep seabed.
Ratification makes sense militarily as well. According to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the convention ''codifies navigation and overflight rights and high seas freedoms that are essential for the global mobility of our armed forces.'' In other words, it enhances national security by giving our Navy additional flexibility to operate on the high seas and in foreign exclusive economic zones and territorial seas. This is particularly important in the Asia Pacific region and the South China Sea, where tensions among China, Japan and Southeast Asian nations have increased because of conflicting interpretations of what constitutes territorial and international waters.
Perhaps most important of all, ratification would prove to be a diplomatic triumph. American power is defined not simply by economic and military might, but by ideals, leadership, strategic vision and international credibility.
Of course, there are those who would prefer that we have nothing to do with the United Nations, who believe that international treaties hurt our national interests and restrain our foreign policy objectives.
All three of us have struggled while working with and through international organizations -- they are unwieldy and not always responsive to American interests. But as we see in Libya today, the United Nations and other international alliances are indispensable in providing legitimacy and reinvigorating American partnerships in times of crisis. And they will ensure needed balance as rising powers inevitably challenge America's economic and military strength.
Last July, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton gained much respect by reassuring the Southeast Asian nations that the United States strongly supported multilateral efforts to address those territorial disputes in the South China Sea, and denounced China's heavy-handed, unilateral tactics. But strong American positions like that are ultimately undermined by our failure to ratify the convention; it shows we are not really committed to a clear legal regime for the seas.
For all of these reasons, ratification is more important today than ever before. At a time when America's military and economic strengths are tested, we must lead on the seas as well as on land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCEANS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LAW OF THE SEA (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); MINES & MINING (75%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (75%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (75%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



560 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Taxes Enter Debt Debate

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The Obama administration is preparing to inject an unpredictable new variable into its economic policy clash with Republicans: a plan to overhaul corporate taxes.
Economic advisers have nearly completed the process initiated in January by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, at President Obama's behest. That process, intended to make the United States more competitive internationally, has explored the willingness of business leaders to sacrifice loopholes in return for lowering the top corporate tax rate, currently 35 percent.
The approach officials are now discussing would drop the top rate as low as 26 percent, largely by curbing or eliminating tax breaks for depreciation and for domestic manufacturing. Final options have not been presented to Mr. Obama, but officials aim to unveil a single proposal or a set of alternative plans as early as May. 
So far, administration officials have been encouraged by support among business leaders for the tradeoffs needed for rate reduction. Whether that survives the legislative process in Congress is another matter.
''The question is, Is the business community going to support this because it's a win for the economy over all?'' said Gene Sperling, director of Mr. Obama's National Economic Council. ''Or, is it going to get held up because each business will decide whether they're a temporary winner or loser compared to the status quo?''
The stakes extend beyond corporate taxes. The plan is taking shape, after all, as Republicans and Democrats haggle over rival approaches to deficit reduction and an increase in the federal debt ceiling. The tax plan could become a wild card in that debate.
Balancing the Change
Rewriting tax law is never easy. And the administration's effort to overhaul corporate taxation poses special challenges.
The current system taxes only about half of business income, because many enterprises, particularly small ones, are organized to pay taxes under the income tax code for individuals. The Republican chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Dave Camp of Michigan, says corporate taxes should be changed only in tandem with an even more politically daunting overhaul of the tax code for individuals.
Balancing deficit concerns with its desire to improve relations with businesses, the Obama administration wants any corporate tax overhaul to be ''revenue neutral'' - that is, a new system should bring in no more or less money from businesses than the old one did.
Thus some sectors with comparatively few major deductions could win big, including Wall Street. Others paying lower ''effective rates,'' like domestic manufacturers, could lose.
Multinational corporations want America to follow other major economies in adopting a ''territorial'' tax system that excuses profits earned overseas from United States taxation.
That could expose lawmakers to attack for encouraging corporations to further shift jobs abroad. And permanently shielding overseas income from American taxes would complicate the task of lowering the 35 percent top rate.
Administration officials, however, see ways to ameliorate each potential objection. The United States could adopt a modified system rather than pure territorial one, for instance, or eliminate part but not all of the existing domestic manufacturing credit.
Notwithstanding Mr. Obama's reputation for strained relations with business, some influential corporate leaders voiced optimism about the emerging approach that Mr. Geithner has told them privately he is preparing to release.
''I would expect it in the next two weeks,'' said Johanna Schneider, a top official at the Business Roundtable, a lobbying group made up of chief executives of the nation's biggest companies. ''All the stars are aligned.''
Changing the Mood
By definition, a revenue-neutral shift in business taxation would seem irrelevant to the battle over reducing America's long-term budget deficit. But it isn't.
Proposing to cut the top rate for corporations poses the risk of aggravating unease among Democrats as they negotiate with Republicans over spending cuts in the monuments of modern liberalism: Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. The recent revelation that the nation's largest corporation, General Electric, paid no federal tax for 2010 despite $14.2 billion in worldwide profits makes a business tax-rate reduction an even tougher sell.
Yet such a proposal could sweeten the mood among Republicans as they consider Mr. Obama's insistence that any long-term deficit reduction deal include increases in revenue from the individual tax code. The options that administration aides have been sifting through are close to the 25 percent top rate that Mr. Camp, the House Republicans' point man on taxes, has suggested for corporations and individuals alike.
A corporate tax overhaul would also complement the work of the Senate's bipartisan ''Gang of Six,'' which is working on a compromise to meet Mr. Obama's call for a ''balance'' of spending reductions and tax increases. Those three Republicans and three Democrats are focusing on proposals for the individual tax code.
Like the Treasury, they plan to release their handiwork as early as next month.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Dave Camp, above, wants a corporate tax overhaul only in tandem with changes to the individual tax code. Gene Sperling, the president's top economic adviser, said business needs to see the plan as good for the economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX REFORM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011



561 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths ADAMS, GEORGE BELL

 BODY:
ADAMS--George Bell, 80, of Manhattan and Old Field, NY, died on April 24, 2011 at home in Manhattan after a valiant battle with cancer. He will be profoundly missed by his beloved family, friends and former colleagues. Survived by his devoted wife of 58 years, Lucy. 
Loving father of Lisa (Jim Rowe), Marea, George Jr. (Jean) and Alison (Peter Collery) and adored "PopPop" of Chris and Lucia Rowe; Eliza, Mimi, and Alison Butler; George and Kate Adams; and Claire, Ned, and Elizabeth (Bip) Collery. Born and raised in New York City, he graduated from Yale University in 1952 and from Harvard Law School in 1957. He served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army (Artillery) 1952 1954. He worked his entire legal career at Debevoise & Plimpton. Chairman of the firm's corporate department 1988 1993 and managing partner of its London office 1993 1996. He served as an arbitrator for the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission; a director of the Lawyers Alliance for World Security and a member of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Chairman of the Board of Sarah Lawrence College; President of The Greater New York Fund (United Way of New York City); trustee and executive committee member of the American Trust for the British Library; fellow of the Pierpont Morgan Library; member of the Yale University Council; and member of the Board of Visitors of the CUNY Law School. In retirement, he co-founded Gray Matters, an advisory group of retired professionals offering services to community based organizations. The funeral service will be held at 12:00pm, on Friday, April 29, 2011 at St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue at 84th Street. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory can be made to either the American Trust for the British Library, c/o Seana Anderson, rev@seanaanderson.com, or to Broadway Housing Communities, c/o Ellen Baxter, ebaxter@broadwayhousing. org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LIBRARIES (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); ARMIES (70%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%)

COMPANY: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (83%); CHINA INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CONSULTANTS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); LAWYERS ALLIANCE FOR WORLD SECURITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



562 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Fear of Rising Commodity Prices

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks fell Monday in the lightest volume session of the year after a lower outlook from Kimberly-Clark heightened concern that higher commodity costs would squeeze profits in coming quarters.
About 5.34 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, below the daily average of 7.74 billion.
Kimberly-Clark fell 2.7 percent to $64.24 after it cut the low end of its full-year outlook because the costs of pulp and other goods rose more than twice as much as it had expected. 
The threat of rising commodity costs will remain in the spotlight for one of the busiest weeks of earnings, with 180 companies listed in Standard & Poor's 500 scheduled to report this week, including other major consumer names like Procter & Gamble and Colgate-Palmolive.
''That is going to be the next thing that happens -- the forward guidance is going to start to become impacted because of higher prices,'' said Kenneth Polcari, managing director of ICAP Equities in New York.
Kimberly-Clark, maker of Kleenex tissue and Huggies disposable diapers, is among companies highly vulnerable to rising commodity costs because its products contain oil-based materials and paper.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 26.11 points, or 0.21 percent, to 12,479.88. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 2.13 points, or 0.16 percent, to 1,335.25. The Nasdaq composite index gained 5.72 points, or 0.20 percent, to 2,825.88.
Johnson Controls fell 2.8 percent to $39.60 after the company, one of the world's largest auto suppliers, said its fiscal third-quarter results would be hit by a decline in car production after the earthquake in Japan last month, which has disrupted the supply of auto parts and forced auto companies to idle plants.
Through Monday, 75 percent of the 151 companies in the S.& P. 500 that have reported results this quarter have beaten analysts' expectations. That is just above the average over the last four quarters but well above the average of 62 percent since 1994, according to Thomson Reuters data.
The Nasdaq edged higher, helped by SanDisk, a maker of flash memory cards, up 1.6 percent at $49.78 after raising its 2011 margin outlook late on Thursday. The markets were closed last week for Good Friday.
But energy and materials companies' shares ranked among the worst performers, with the PHLX oil service sector index off 0.9 percent and the S.& P. Materials Index down 0.7 percent. Oil prices slipped in thin, choppy trade as a sell-off in silver from near record highs lifted the dollar off its lows, prompting a bout of profit-taking in crude.
Company earnings reports this week include Amazon.com, Coca-Cola and Microsoft and the energy companies Exxon Mobil and Chevron.
Regarding expectations for this week's batch of energy companies' earnings, Mr. Polcari added: ''They are all projected to be better because of high oil prices and all that stuff -- great for them, but not good for anyone else.''
The week's economic agenda includes a two-day meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will hold the first of four annual news conferences on Wednesday after the Federal Open Market Committee's meeting.
Investors will look for clues about the direction of monetary policy when the Fed's bond-buying program ends in June.
Interest rates fell on Monday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 102 5/32, and the yield slipped to 3.36 percent from 3.40 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DISPOSABLE DIAPERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); COMPUTER INTERFACE CARD MFG (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (63%); RANKINGS (50%)

COMPANY: KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (92%); NYSE MKT LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (56%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (58%)

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (92%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); CL (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



563 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Pampering Premium Customers

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
The hotel lounge was once a simple affair, offering a television, perhaps, and a small buffet to its regular customers. But as business travel has started to pick up, and revenue along with it, a number of major hotel brands are once more turning to sprucing up their executive club lounges, making them more residential in feel and providing healthier food and improved technology like free Wi-Fi.
''The time is appropriate,'' said Bjorn Hanson, dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. Upgrades were a priority from 2005 to 2007, but since then, many hotels have deferred investments, Mr. Hanson said. ''Frankly, some of these facilities need to be refurbished and redesigned.'' 
Investing in lounges is smart, he said, because they attract travelers who are less cost-conscious. Lounges are generally areas set aside for premium customers to work and relax, far from the hotel's lobby.
Sheraton Hotels & Resorts and the owners of its hotels are spending about $108 million to upgrade 120 club lounges around the world, said Hoyt H. Harper, global brand leader. Before the redesign, layouts were not well planned, televisions were outdated and Wi-Fi was not widely available, he said. Most new lounges will offer better views, upgraded services like manager's receptions, wider food and beverage choices, free Wi-Fi, high-quality color printers, flat-screen televisions, and even game tables.
The lounges will be open seven days a week and in some cases, 24 hours a day. ''We found that our guests like having the lounge open on the weekend and into the night as well,'' Mr. Harper said.
Erin Hoover, vice president for global brand design for Sheraton and Westin, said Sheraton was making design a priority in its lounges. ''We're creating spaces that are flexible, so business travelers can move between different zones for different activities,'' Ms. Hoover said. ''It's very similar to how you set up your home.''
The design will be consistent, but layouts, colors and art will differ regionally. The Sheraton TriBeCa in New York City, for instance, has an outdoor terrace with a 180-degree view of downtown Manhattan and a small, intimate dining area. ''It feels like I'm at my friend's kitchen,'' Ms. Hoover said. In Edinburgh, textiles, fabrics, wood and books create a cozy ''almost library-like'' feel to the media wall, she said.
Henry H. Harteveldt, travel industry analyst for Forrester Research, said he had seen ''some lounges with all the ambiance of a dentist's waiting room.'' He added, ''Design is very, very important, and it is much more integrated into daily life nowadays.'' But, he said, lounges ideally combine ''the aesthetic with the practical.''
J.W. Marriott Hotels is updating or planning new executive lounges for many of its properties. Some will have ''vanishing bars,'' custom furniture by day that opens in the evening for cocktails, said Mitzi Gaskins, vice president and global brand manager. Other lounges may be larger, perhaps with private meeting rooms within them, as in Asia, where they are often popular gathering places. Dining and beverage offerings will focus on local and organic foods. And all will have a concierge, she said.
Hilton Hotels & Resorts is planning executive lounge improvements in many of its properties, including those in development, said Dave Horton, global head of the Hilton brand. ''It's a key focus.'' The company was not ready to release details, but Mr. Horton said the lounges would use design, technology, food and beverages ''to create an environment where our guests can connect with others, relax or be productive while traveling.''
At Fairmont Hotels & Resorts, there are plans to upgrade that could include things like lights that dim to change the mood to help travelers relax, said Clarence McLeod, corporate director of Fairmont Gold, the brand's premium level. Other ideas include libraries with e-readers, and sound rooms with high-end equipment to listen to music. About 10 lounges already offer iPads, he said. The brand also plans to personalize arrivals and service, based on guests' interests.
''It's about giving guests options,'' said Alan Benjamin, president of Benjamin West, a company that supplies interior furnishings to major hotel brands and independent hotels internationally. The redesign of lounges is similar to what happened with hotel lobbies, which have been transformed into work and social areas.
Mr. Benjamin said business travelers worked traditionally in their rooms, but now more favor communal areas. Lounges typically offer individual seating ''for people who want to cocoon themselves,'' he said, as well as large communal tables. Lounges are ideal for travelers who do not want to be secluded in their rooms, but who seek more privacy than possible in the lobby, he said.
Deborah Lloyd Forrest, principal of ForrestPerkins, an international architecture and design firm specializing in luxury hotels and resorts, said the first lounges ''were designed to create a hotel within a hotel, a place of refuge for elite quests.''
Stephen Perkins, also a principal at ForrestPerkins, said, that ''lounges became a distillation of the brand, a way to impart value through decor, art, acoustics, to encourage loyalty in its most important guests.''
Travel experts said it was a way for brands to stay competitive by differentiating themselves from others.
Joseph A. McInerney, chief executive of the American Hotel Lodging Association, a hotel industry trade group, said lounges evolved from designated executive floors, which often had their own elevators or keys, ''to make regular business travelers feel special.'' The industry followed the airlines, which provided different amenities depending on class of service.
''When you have a long day, it's nice not to have to go downstairs,'' said Rick LeBlanc, an executive from the Toronto area. Mr. LeBlanc, who is a frequent guest at many of Sheraton's executive club lounges, said he had already noticed the greater food diversity, improved decor and service at some. ''They know my name. They know what I like to drink,'' he said. ''There's just an energy that resonates with global travelers. It's a major uplift.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The lounge on the 43rd floor of the Sheraton Centre Toronto Hotel. Sheraton is refurbishing 120 lounges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS YOUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); RESORTS (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (72%); TEXTILES (60%)

COMPANY: SHERATON HOTELS & RESORTS (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



564 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Public Pensions, Once Off Limits, Face Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
When an arbitrator ruled this month that Detroit could reduce the pensions being earned by its police sergeants and lieutenants, it put the struggling city at the forefront of a growing national debate over whether the pensions of current public workers can or should be reduced.
Conventional wisdom and the laws and constitutions of many states have long held that the pensions being earned by current government workers are untouchable. But as the fiscal crisis has lingered, officials in strapped states from California to Illinois have begun to take a second look, to see whether there might be loopholes allowing them to cut the pension benefits of current employees. Now the move in Detroit -- made possible, lawyers said, because Michigan's constitutional protections are weaker -- could spur other places to try to follow suit. 
''These things do tend to be herd-oriented,'' said Sylvester J. Schieber, an economist and consultant who studies pensions.
The mayors of some hard-hit cities have said that the high costs of pensions have forced them to lay off workers: Oakland, Calif., laid off one-tenth of its police force last year after failing to win concessions on pension costs.
Elsewhere there is pension envy: some private sector workers, who have learned the hard way that their companies can freeze or reduce their pensions, resent that the pensions of public workers enjoy stronger legal protections. But government workers, many of whom were recruited with the promise of good benefits and pensions, say that it would be unfair -- and in many cases, very likely illegal -- to change the rules in the middle of the game.
It has been far more common for cities and states to adopt more modest retirement plans for future workers. But the savings from new plans are initially small, growing only over time. Other states have gone further, requiring workers to work more years before retiring, or to contribute a higher portion of their salaries toward their pensions. A few states have rolled back cost-of-living increases for retirees, prompting lawsuits. Reducing the rate at which government workers earn pension benefits -- even modestly, as Detroit did -- has been rare.
Pension funds can run out of money. In Prichard, Ala., a small city outside of Mobile, the fund ran out in 2009. The city stopped sending pension checks to its 150 retired workers, defying a state law that requires it to pay what it has promised. In the 19 months since the checks stopped, 18 retirees have died while waiting for their money.
When Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, a Republican, moved to curtail the collective bargaining rights of public worker unions in the state, he exempted police and fire unions. But they often have among the most expensive pension benefits.
That is, in part, because they must be paid for more years. Because police work and firefighting are dangerous, physically demanding jobs, it is not uncommon for cities to promise workers full pensions after as little as 20 years of service, even if that means paying retirees from their 40s until they die. Such pensions are powerful recruiting tools.
When the mayor of Jacksonville, Fla., addressed a recent conference there for the trustees of police and fire pension funds, he said that he would not attend the ''Guns 'n' Hoses'' boxing tournament on the last night. The mayor, John Peyton, had spent the past year in rancorous, fruitless negotiations trying to get his local unions to agree that future police officers and firefighters should have to work 25 years before getting full pensions, instead of 20, among other things.
''I fear that if I showed up, I'd be put in the ring and I'd come out unrecognizable,'' he said, joking.
In Omaha, the police union recently agreed to reduce the benefits being earned by current officers after the city agreed to put more money into the teetering pension fund.
The struggles of Detroit, of course, are extreme. The report by the arbitrator, Thomas W. Brookover, noted that although the city's unemployment rate was officially 28 percent, there was evidence that less than 37 percent of the city's residents were actually working. The population had crashed. Property tax revenues were dwindling. Detroit had drained its rainy day fund, reduced overtime, offered property-tax amnesty, sold public assets, borrowed money, allowed casinos to set up shop -- and still its deficits kept growing.
The average pension for retired police officers in Detroit is not especially rich: it is $28,501 a year. But with more than twice as many retirees as active workers, Mr. Brookover wrote, the costs of paying for the pensions ''threaten both the city's fiscal viability, as well as its wherewithal to provide public safety for its citizens.''
Detroit's efforts to cover those costs through aggressive investing have not helped. In a 2010 report, an auditor warned that $103 million of alternative investments were unaccounted for. The city's bets have included Tradewinds Airlines, which went bankrupt for the third time in 2008, and a luxury hotel in Detroit. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating.
The city initially sought to freeze its pension fund immediately, which is almost unheard of in the public sector. The arbitrator rejected that proposal, but agreed that the city could reduce the rate at which lieutenants and sergeants earn pension benefits from 2.5 percent of their salary per year to 2.1 percent. Although rare, the reduction is not particularly large, given the magnitude of Detroit's problems. The arbitrator did not try to find a solution to the fund's imbalance.
Michigan's new Republican governor, Rick Snyder, has taken a carrot-and-stick approach to the state's troubled cities. The carrot: He scrapped the old way of distributing state aid, and wants to make aid contingent on having cities adopt ''best practices,'' which he says should include reducing the rate at which workers earn pension benefits. The stick: A new law allowing the state to appoint fiscal managers with broad powers over distressed local governments.
Mayor Dave Bing of Detroit referred to both carrot and stick in his budget address this month, when he spoke of the need to reduce pensions for current workers, and to move away from traditional pension plans to those more like 401(k)'s for ''at a minimum all new hires.''
''If we are unable or unwilling to make these changes, an emergency financial manager will be appointed by the state to make them for us,'' he said. ''It's that simple.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Dave Bing of Detroit in 2009. His city may cut pensions for some current police officers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MCGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Hoping for Huge Returns: With twice as many retired police officers and firefighters as active ones, Detroit must pay out more than $200 million a year from its pension fund. But it puts in only a fraction of that amount, hoping that over the long term, investment gains will make up the rest. (Source: Detroit Police and Fire Retirement System) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LITIGATION (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (66%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



565 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BALTIMORE JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: For Late 'Mr. Mayor,' A Last Tour of Town

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
BALTIMORE -- Even after his death, William Donald Schaefer was still performing. The former mayor of Baltimore was ushered through the city on Monday like a head of state, his coffin on a whirlwind tour of this city that he loved, and that loved him.
A motorcade led by a shiny black hearse cruised through closed streets, making stops at some of his most famous achievements, including the National Aquarium, the stadium at Camden Yards and the Inner Harbor, the glittering heart of downtown that is considered one of the country's greatest urban renewal success stories.
It ended at City Hall, where a small crowd watched as his coffin was unloaded near a giant American flag hung between two fire engine ladders.
''This is history,'' said Bernard Smith, 43, who had come with his 13-year-old daughter. ''We're never going to have another mayor like him.'' 
It was a fitting finale for a man who loved public spectacles, and it gave the residents of this city a chance to pay their respects to Mr. Schaefer, a ferociously energetic politician whom many locals referred to as ''Mr. Mayor'' or ''Willie Don,'' and who served in elected office for most of his 89 years. A public funeral will be held on Wednesday.
But the applause and tributes seemed to be as much about this city's yearning to return to the Schaefer era, to a time when anything seemed possible, and before the city's vast social problems settled too deeply into its bones.
''Sometimes you just want to go back to the old days and the old ways, when there were morals and grace and respect,'' said Melody Sayre, 54, a bus driver who lived near Mr. Schaefer. ''He was the last of the Mohicans. He was an original man.''
By all accounts, Mr. Schaefer made this gritty port city feel good about itself at a time -- after the race riots and a long-term decline in manufacturing and transport jobs -- when its spirits were touching new lows.
''He put Baltimore on the map,'' Ms. Sayre said.
But while his downtown development gave the economy a boost, those gains ultimately were swept away by the storm of social and economic woes -- like the crack epidemic and the dwindling numbers of working-class jobs -- that continued unabated, and have made it one of the country's most troubled cities and a natural backdrop for police-themed television series like ''The Wire'' and ''Homicide: Life on the Street.''
''What Schaefer did was mostly psychological,'' said Matthew Crenson, a political science professor at Johns Hopkins University. ''He turned around the city's morale, but not so much its economy.''
Marc Levine, a professor of history and economic development at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, said Mr. Schaefer might have stopped Baltimore from becoming an abandoned city like Detroit, but he nevertheless was unable to stem its economic decline.
Today, less than half of the city's working-age, black male population is employed, down from 68 percent in 1970. And despite the downtown renaissance, it has relentlessly lost ground as a regional employment center, with just 25 percent of the Baltimore region's jobs, down from 62 percent in 1970. Fifty years later, the city continues to lose residents, and it is now home to just 23 percent of the population of the larger metro area, down from 44 percent in 1970.
''He had an important impact, but that doesn't mean he turned the city around,'' said Professor Levine, who has studied Baltimore. ''All the indicators suggest that the larger economic trajectory remained unchanged.''
But that mattered little to people who were celebrating him on Monday, who praised him as a down-to-earth man who helped them feel a sense of pride about their city.
''You got somebody right in your 'hood who's a household name, and who didn't just move out here to get votes,'' said a 53-year-old man who identified himself only by his nickname, Keystone. ''That inspires young people that maybe they can do something.''
Perhaps the biggest regret voiced by city residents in interviews after his death last week was that Mr. Schaefer did not apply his laser focus and frenetic energy to the school system, which through the decades grew to be one of the poorest, and lowest-achieving in the country.
According to Professor Levine, spending on education, adjusted for inflation, fell by a fifth from 1971 to 1986, the years of Mr. Schaefer's tenure as mayor.
''He built buildings and things you could celebrate now, but he didn't fix the schools,'' said Sandra Banisky, a journalism professor at the University of Maryland, who used to cover Mr. Schaefer as a reporter for The Baltimore Sun.
Professor Banisky added, ''That would have meant dealing with poverty and broken families, and you wouldn't see results for decades.''
It would also have meant stepping into a political minefield at a time when racial tensions were boiling and school affairs were closely linked to issues of race, said Marion Orr, a political science professor at Brown University.
Though by all accounts painfully shy, Mr. Schaefer was also a master of the goofy, something that people seemed to like. The well-known image of him holding a rubber ducky in a pool in a Victorian-style bathing suit is emblazoned on a poster in the Aquarium where it happened.
''He was letting people know that just because he was in office, it didn't mean he couldn't have fun,'' said Mr. Smith, who has worked in the security department there for 22 years.
Mr. Schaefer's eccentricity did not disappoint in death: He died with his cat, Willie, sitting nearby, not long after a friend played ''Maryland, My Maryland'' for him on the trumpet by phone.
Lisa Widener, an unemployed typist who had taken the bus to City Hall to pay her respects, said she yearned for the past when Mr. Schaefer was mayor and jobs were easier to come by.
''Back then, we weren't struggling so hard to survive,'' Ms. Widener said. ''Food's up. Gas is up. We're bankrupt.''
Mr. Smith said he would never forget Mr. Schaefer, not least because his policies provided a steady job. In an era when most politicians ''are just trying to copy other folks,'' he said, Mr. Schaefer had vision.
''It's like, can y'all top that?'' he said, motioning to the empty space where the ceremony had been. ''No. None of you can.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers in Baltimore, left, spruced up the Edgewood neighborhood Monday before the hearse carrying the coffin of William Donald Schaefer made its way through on the way to City Hall. The coffin will lie in the Rotunda until a funeral on Wednesday.(A15)
The reflection of onlookers in the window of the hearse carrying William Donald Schaefer's coffin through the Inner Harbor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA LOPOSSAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); RIOTS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); HOMICIDE (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); COCAINE (50%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%) MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



566 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Postcrisis, a Regulator Moves to Expand Power Over Wall St.

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Richard G. Ketchum is plotting Finra 2.0.
The chairman and chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has ambitious plans to expand the influence of Wall Street's self-regulatory agency. At Mr. Ketchum's urging, Finra is vying to replace the Securities and Exchange Commission as the top enforcer overseeing tens of thousands of investment advisers. Finra, a private nonprofit, already monitors 600,000-plus stockbrokers.
Mr. Ketchum, 60, also recently moved to overhaul Finra's enforcement division, following criticism that the organization failed to prevent the financial crisis. Now, he's says that Finra plans to bring new cases against Wall Street firms and smaller boiler rooms alike. 
Finra's makeover is a few years in the making.
The organization was born out of the 2007 merger between the National Association of Securities Dealers , or N.A.S.D., and the New York Stock Exchange's regulatory arm. Mr. Ketchum, then the chief executive of NYSE Regulation and a main architect of the deal, was named chairman of the newly formed Finra board. He took on the role of chief executive in 2009, when Mary Schapiro left to head the S.E.C.
Mr. Ketchum, a lawyer by trade and professed ''market geek,'' spent more than a decade at the N.A.S.D. and Nasdaq Stock Market and worked at the S.E.C. as director of the agency's market regulation division. A married father of three, he also did a stint in the financial industry, serving for nine months as general counsel of Citigroup's corporate and investment bank.
In a recent interview, Mr. Ketchum spoke with DealBook about Finra's bid for more power, its mistakes leading up to the financial crisis and his obsession with the Boston Red Sox. What follows is an edited version of the conversation.
Q. Congress is considering whether to shift oversight of investment advisers from the S.E.C. to Finra. What's wrong with the current system?
A. We can't continue to have an environment where less than 10 percent of investment advisers are examined each year. For some relatively smaller ones, it's more than 10 years. That's not an acceptable investor protection environment.
Q. Is Finra ready for the extra responsibilities?
A. This is a very doable thing, though doing it right takes additional expertise. We would have to grow by over a hundred people - possibly multiples of that. Within six to 12 months, we could begin a program.
We're already examining broker dealers and 88 percent of investment advisers are also registered representatives of a broker dealer.
Q. Some investment advisers don't think Finra is up to the task.
A. I think they're wrong. The independent investment adviser understandably looks at this as a fear of the unknown. Some of that is a preference for not being examined on a regular basis - and that's only human.
Q. Some of your harshest critics contend that Finra should not be trusted with additional responsibility, given that it filed so few disciplinary actions in the lead up to the credit crisis.
A. I have to say mea culpa. I don't think there is any regulator that's happy about the job they did before the crisis.
Q. Finra is financed by fees from the financial industry and several industry insiders sit on your board. Was the organization too close to the players it regulates?
A. No. The problem was, we did not have enough resources dedicated to identifying fraud and dealing with it quickly. That's why we created the office of the whistle-blower and Office of Fraud Detection and Market Intelligence.
Rather than basing an examination schedule merely on the calendar, we have started to focus our examination of firms on issues that pose real risk to investors. We have already seen significant improvement in quickly dealing with problems as a result.
Q. You also hired a new enforcement director, Brad Bennett, who until recently defended financial firms and corporate bosses from insider trading and accounting fraud charges. What should Wall Street expect from his group?
A. Brad has brought a renewed passion. I think it's tangibly boosted morale in the division.
You're going to see a lot of cases coming out. I think you'll see cases brought more quickly and cases that really matter. You're going to see an accelerated effort to address many of the failures in the credit crisis.
We want to be in there stopping the activity, not just cleaning up the bodies. We've changed the organization to be able to respond more quickly. I think we're more agile now than we were three years ago.
Q. You earned roughly $2 million in 2009 as the regulator's chief executive and chairman. Are executive salaries at Finra excessive?
A. No. Finra strives to have a compensation structure that is competitive with the comparable segment of the market. We have engaged an outside consultant, Mercer, that benchmarks salaries at Finra to make sure they are competitive with that market, but not excessive.
Q. You spend most of your life in New York or Washington, but you've got a picture of the Boston Red Sox hanging in your office. How did that happen?
A. I grew up in New York but was brainwashed by two New England parents.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard G. Ketchum, the chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, said the agency planned new cases against financial firms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATALIE BEHRING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MERGERS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BASEBALL (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (99%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



567 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: A Player Is Back at Home With Dreams of a Recovery

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
JACKSON, N.J. -- In his dreams, Eric LeGrand is surrounded by family, friends, his Rutgers football teammates, the same support system that cared for and inspired him the past six months. But there remains one difference. In his dreams, LeGrand can walk.
Instead, most mornings, LeGrand, 20, is helped into his wheelchair and thinks about the future. He wants to return to campus in the fall, become a sportscaster, perhaps in the Charles Barkley mold. He longs to lead the Scarlet Knights onto the field. 
And he says, with absolute conviction: ''I will walk again. I believe that.''
LeGrand and his family hosted reporters at his aunt's home Monday. It was his first group interview since he left the Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation last month. Inspirational bracelets from well-wishers lined his wrists. Dreadlocks flowed past his shoulders. The word ''believe,'' seven letters that form the mantra for his recovery, hung all over the house.
LeGrand said he liked to watch the play that left him paralyzed below the neck. He wondered what would have resulted if he moved a little left, or right; if he arrived a fraction earlier, or later, than he did. It happened Oct. 16 on a kickoff return at New Meadowlands Stadium against Army. He made a tackle and lost feeling in his body. He tried to flash the crowd a thumbs-up and failed.
''Be positive,'' LeGrand said his coach, Greg Schiano, told him on the field. ''Leave it in God's hands.''
That same weekend, a rash of helmet-to-helmet hits prompted the N.F.L. to change the enforcement of its rules. LeGrand had fractured his C3 and C4 vertebrae, but while he struggled to breathe, while he feared he might die right there on that field, he believed the play was freaky, random. Even if he believed the injury that resulted was not.
''I was picked to withstand that,'' he said.
The player LeGrand collided with sent him a letter, said he was praying for LeGrand. The group 3D Rock Band released a single called ''Believe.'' Andy Reid, the Philadelphia Eagles' coach, visited LeGrand. His favorite player, Baltimore Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis, sent an autographed game helmet. Dennis Byrd, the Jet who broke his neck in 1992, mailed his book.
This support shaped LeGrand's outlook, by all accounts upbeat, optimistic, focused on the future. Some days are worse than others. On Sunday, LeGrand said he cried four or five times.
He came here late last month after residing at the Kessler Institute since November. An uncle, Ariel Curet, had a ramp installed at the front door. The minute LeGrand arrived, his cousins played the ''Rocky'' theme song, and his uncle cooked his favorite, cheesesteaks.
''I wasn't sure what to expect,'' Curet said. ''He came out of the operating room, and he's asking us, 'Hey, are you guys O.K.?' That's how he's been. The kid has a heart as big as a lion. He lifts us up.''
This works both ways. LeGrand praised his mother, Karen, as his inspiration, a disciplinarian who always drove her son, who made sure he never missed practice, who spent most of each day by his side, even sleeping next to him. Sometimes, she feels for her son, for the events he misses and what he cannot do. But then she watches him chase his cousins in his wheelchair, or she wraps his arms around her shoulders.
Then everything feels right again.
''He was your typical 19-, 20-year-old football player, goofy and silly and annoying, the whole bit,'' she said. ''He was living his dream. Just like that, it's over. But look at him. He still smiles. He still laughs. Maybe he's supposed to do something even bigger than that.''
Three times each week, LeGrand undergoes two hours of rehabilitation. He joined the football team for its first meeting, in January. He also resumed his coursework, participating in an economics class via his computer each Monday night.
LeGrand said doctors told his family he would never come off the ventilator, never breathe on his own again. Now they say he is unlikely to walk. So LeGrand says he no longer speaks much to his doctors. His family handles that.
In November, he came off the ventilator. In December, he regained some feeling in his hands. Now, LeGrand can move his arms and shoulders. He can sit forward. He can feel sensations all over, too, but he cannot distinguish between sharp and dull pressure. His family is surprised by this progress, but LeGrand said it felt a lot like sports.
He attended a recent Rutgers scrimmage, in which cornerback Jordan Thomas lay motionless long after one hit. LeGrand did not see the play, but he could tell by the looks on people's faces something had gone wrong, though Thomas was eventually O.K.
Mostly, LeGrand considers himself fortunate. He watched Game 3 of the Knicks-Boston Celtics playoff series, in person at Madison Square Garden, cheering for his favorite player, Kevin Garnett. People recognized LeGrand, same as always, and they spoke of how he inspired them.
''I do miss it,'' LeGrand said of the game that left him paralyzed. ''But there's a path for me.''
He added, ''I will walk again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ERIC LEGRAND, the former Rutgers football player paralyzed during a game last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BONE FRACTURES (88%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PARALYSIS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); POP & ROCK (60%)

COMPANY: KESSLER INSTITUTE FOR REHABILITATION INC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



568 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Yemen Close to Deal on Transfer of Power

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF

 BODY:
Yemen's opposition coalition on Monday accepted a proposal for a transfer of power, bringing the country closer to a resolution of months of political turmoil and countless demonstrations calling for President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down. 
''We have accepted the gulf proposal on condition that the protests are allowed to continue until Saleh leaves office,'' said Mohammed Qahtan, a spokesman for the coalition, which is known as the J.M.P. ''Leaders of the J.M.P. met with the American ambassador today, and he confirmed for us that the protests can continue through this month; this is why we agreed to the proposal.''
However, when Mr. Saleh announced, on Saturday, his acceptance of the plan from a six-nation regional bloc known as the Gulf Cooperation Council, his agreement was based on the condition that the protest demonstrations would stop immediately.
The proposal, which was put together by the council in consultation with the United States and the European Union, was presented to the Yemeni government and the opposition last week. It was seen as probably the last effort to solve the political crisis that had brought Yemen, an already fragile country, closer to chaos. An economic crisis looms, and violence between armed gunmen and security forces in outlying provinces has increased over the last week. At least 120 protesters have been killed since the uprising began in February, according to Amnesty International.
If the two sides formally agree to the proposal, the president would leave office after 30 days and a presidential election would be held 60 days later, in accordance with Yemen's Constitution.
The political opposition has also agreed to participate in a unity government with Mr. Saleh, which would govern during the 30 days before he leaves office. The opposition had initially objected to this provision.
The agreement, however, also signals a deepening rift between the political opposition and the street protesters who had already rejected the Gulf Cooperation Council's proposal. The protesters do not trust that Mr. Saleh will leave office as the mediated settlement required, and they do not think that he and his family should be granted immunity, which is called for in the agreement.
Witnesses said that the protest demonstration in Sana, the capital, had grown since the president announced that he had accepted the proposal, and protesters were angered by Mr. Saleh's comments in an interview with the BBC that members of Al Qaeda had infiltrated protest camps.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The police used a water cannon to disperse protesters demanding the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh in Taiz on Monday. The opposition has accepted a proposal to transfer power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED ABDULLAH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); IMMUNITY (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIZ, YEMEN (74%) YEMEN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



569 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: The Limits Of School Reform

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
I find myself haunted by a 13-year-old boy named Saquan Townsend. It's been more than two weeks since he was featured in The New York Times Magazine, yet I can't get him out of my mind.
The article, by Jonathan Mahler, was about the heroic efforts of Ramon Gonzalez, the principal of M.S. 223, a public middle school in the South Bronx, to make his school a place where his young charges can get a decent education and thus, perhaps, a better life. Surprisingly, though, Gonzalez is not aligned with the public school reform movement, even though one of the movement's leading lights, Joel Klein, was until fairly recently his boss as the head of the New York City school system. 
Instead, Gonzalez comes across as a skeptic, wary of the enthusiasm for, as the article puts it, ''all of the educational experimentation'' that took place on Klein's watch. At its core, the reform movement believes that great teachers and improved teaching methods are all that's required to improve student performance, so that's all the reformers focus on. But it takes a lot more than that. Which is where Saquan comes in. His part of the story represents difficult truths that the reform movement has yet to face squarely -- and needs to.
Saquan lands at M.S. 223 because his family has been placed in a nearby homeless shelter. (His mother fled Brooklyn out of fear that another son was in danger of being killed.) At first, he is so disruptive that a teacher, Emily Dodd, thinks he might have a mental disability. But working with him one on one, Dodd discovers that Saquan is, to the contrary, unusually intelligent -- ''brilliant'' even.
From that point on, Dodd does everything a school reformer could hope for. She sends him text messages in the mornings, urging him to come to school. She gives him special help. She encourages him at every turn. For awhile, it seems to take.
Meanwhile, other forces are pushing him in another direction. His mother, who works nights and barely has time to see her son, comes across as indifferent to his schooling. Though she manages to move the family back to Brooklyn, the move means that Saquan has an hour-and-a-half commute to M.S. 223. As his grades and attendance slip, Dodd offers to tutor him. To no avail: He finally decides it isn't worth the effort, and transfers to a school in Brooklyn.
The point is obvious, or at least it should be: Good teaching alone can't overcome the many obstacles Saquan faces when he is not in school. Nor is he unusual. Mahler recounts how M.S. 223 gives away goodie bags to lure parents to parent association meetings, yet barely a dozen show up. He reports that during the summer, some students fall back a full year in reading comprehension -- because they don't read at home.
Going back to the famous Coleman report in the 1960s, social scientists have contended -- and unquestionably proved -- that students' socioeconomic backgrounds vastly outweigh what goes on in the school as factors in determining how much they learn. Richard Rothstein of the Economic Policy Institute lists dozens of reasons why this is so, from the more frequent illness and stress poor students suffer, to the fact that they don't hear the large vocabularies that middle-class children hear at home.
Yet the reformers act as if a student's home life is irrelevant. ''There is no question that family engagement can matter,'' said Klein when I spoke to him. ''But they seem to be saying that poverty is destiny, so let's go home. We don't yet know how much education can overcome poverty,'' he insisted -- notwithstanding the voluminous studiesthat have been doneon the subject. ''To let us off the hook prematurely seems, to me, to play into the hands of the other side.''
That last sentence strikes me as the key to the reformers' resistance: To admit the importance of a student's background, they fear, is to give ammo to the enemy -- which to them are their social-scientist critics and the teachers' unions. But that shouldn't be the case. Making schools better is always a goal worth striving for, whether it means improving pedagogy itself or being able to fire bad teachers more easily. Without question, school reform has already achieved some real, though moderate, progress.
What needs to be acknowledged, however, is that school reform won't fix everything. Though some poor students will succeed, others will fail. Demonizing teachers for the failures of poor students, and pretending that reforming the schools is all that is needed, as the reformers tend to do, is both misguided and counterproductive.
Over the long term, fixing our schools is going to involve a lot more than, well, just fixing our schools. In the short term, however, the reform movement could use something else: a dose of humility about what it can accomplish -- and what it can't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); WORKING MOTHERS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



570 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: School Courses May Be Advanced in Name Only

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
More students are taking ambitious courses. According to a recent Department of Education study, the percentage of high school graduates who signed up for rigorous-sounding classes nearly tripled over the past two decades.
But other studies point to a disconnect: Even though students are getting more credits in more advanced courses, they are not scoring any higher on standardized tests.
The reason, according to a growing body of research, is that the content of these courses is not as high-achieving as their names -- the course-title equivalent of grade inflation. Algebra II is sometimes just Algebra I. And College Preparatory Biology can be just Biology.
Lynn T. Mellor, a researcher in Austin, Tex., who has studied the phenomenon in the state, compares it to a food marketer labeling an orange soda as healthier orange juice. 
''Like the misleading drink labels, course titles may bear little relationship to what students have actually learned,'' said Dr. Mellor, who has analyzed course completion, test records and other student data in Texas. ''We see students taking more and more advanced courses, but still not performing well on end-of-course exams.''
The 2009 results -- the most recent available -- of the federal test that measures change in achievement levels over decades showed that the nation's 17-year-olds were scoring no higher in reading and math than in 1973. SAT scores have dropped or flat-lined, too, since 2000.
But a federal study released this month of nearly 38,000 high school transcripts showed that the proportion of graduates completing a rigorous curriculum rose to 13 percent in 2009 from 5 percent in 1990.
Arnold A. Goldstein, a director at the Department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics, which administered both the federal test and the transcripts study, suggested possible causes for this apparent contradiction.
''There may be a 'watering down' of courses,'' he said. Also, high school seniors may not try hard when they take the federal tests, because there are no consequences based on how they perform, he said.
Schools apply vaunted names to courses in part, researchers said, because administrators want to help students satisfy tougher requirements for high school graduation in many states. They point to parents' interest in rigorous-sounding coursework for their children, and to administrators' vanity in offering ambitious classes.
Some educators also argue that students benefit from being exposed to more difficult coursework, even if they do not perform well.
Mark S. Schneider, a vice president of the American Institutes for Research who headed the Education Department's research wing under President George W. Bush, said the disconnect became apparent a decade ago, after two nationwide surveys showed that the proportion of high school seniors taking trigonometry, precalculus or calculus more than doubled from the early 1980s to the early 2000s.
''Students were taking more rigorous-sounding courses, but there was no evidence they had mastered the content,'' Dr. Schneider said. Researchers at Michigan State University began studying the issue for a 2001 paper that drew on the test scores of 13,000 American eighth-grade students who participated in an international math and science exam known as Timss.
They compared the schools' math courses -- ranging from remedial through ''enriched'' to Algebra I -- with the content of the textbooks used in them. In about 15 percent of the cases, the textbook covered less advanced areas of math than the course name suggested, said William H. Schmidt, who led the Michigan research.
In 2008, Dr. Schmidt surveyed 30 high schools in Ohio and Michigan, finding 270 distinctly labeled math courses. In science, one district offered Basic Biology, BioScience, General Biology A and B -- 10 biology courses in all.
''The titles didn't reveal much at all about how advanced the course was,'' he said.
Course-title inflation is easier to document in math and science, researchers said, but they suspect it is happening in English and other subjects, too.
Growing skepticism among parents and policy makers about the rigor of high school coursework has been a factor, experts say, in the rapid growth of Advanced Placement, the College Board's program of college-level courses.
Over a decade, the number of A.P. exams taken by American high school students has more than doubled, to 3.1 million in 2010 from 1.2 million in 2000.
Politicians and educators in many states have promoted the program, hoping to provide more rigor beyond the traditional curriculum. But the failure rate is also higher on A.P. exams, which are graded on a scale of 1 to 5. The proportion of exams earning low scores of 1 or 2 rose to 42.5 percent in 2010, up from 36.4 percent in 2000.
Trevor Packer, a College Board vice president, said his organization was wrestling with whether access to A.P. should be expanded even if that meant more students failed. For now, the proportion of low scorers is ''tolerable,'' he said.
Mr. Packer spent a recent week visiting A.P. classes in low-income schools in California, where, he said, he found the level of instruction surprisingly high and students well motivated.
''It was also clear that many students were being placed in A.P. who didn't have the preparation,'' he said. But the California principals argued that even students who score poorly in A.P. were better off than if they had taken only standard coursework, Mr. Packer said.
Bruce Orr, the principal of Lakeside High School, in Hot Springs, Ark., agreed. Mr. Orr's students took 297 A.P. exams last year -- eight times as many as in 2004.
''It's about adding rigor,'' Mr. Orr said about his campaign to increase A.P. enrollments.
Across Arkansas, the number of A.P. exams has nearly sextupled since 2000. The proportion of Arkansas students who score a 1 or 2 has surged, too, and is now the nation's highest: 70 percent in 2010.
Mr. Orr said he was not concerned about how many Lakeside students each year earned high A.P. scores.
''Just being in that rigorous course environment does these kids a world of good,'' he said.
Down a hallway, Corey Boby, a math teacher, was drilling his A.P. calculus students in derivatives, preparing for their exam next month.
''They'll do fine,'' Mr. Boby said. But he worried whether some students were fully prepared to take A.P. courses, which he likened to running a marathon.
''My concern is that we may push kids into marathons when maybe they are only ready to run a mile,'' he said.
Brandi Davis, a student in Mr. Boby's third-period class, Transitions to College Math, struggled to catch up, she said, after taking a chaotic eighth-grade math course in a neighboring district.
The course had a catchy name, she recalled: ''Jungle Gym Math.''
''It had some geometry, some algebra,'' Brandi said. ''It jumped around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Linda Self teaches a pre-Advanced Placement chemistry class at Lakeside High School in Hot Springs, Ark. Students at the school took eight times as many A.P. exams last year as in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN THORNTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Disconnect Between Credits and Test Scores: High school students are getting more credits for taking rigorous courses, but they are not scoring higher on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, a federal test that measures achievement. (Source: National Center for Education Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); CALCULUS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); FOOD LABELING (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (76%) TEXAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



571 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Helping Young Addicts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Ohio County Losing Its Young to Painkillers' Grip''(front page, April 20): 
Growing up in an environment suffering ''decades of decline'' and having parents who were addicts explain the depression so many young people in Scioto County, Ohio, are experiencing and why they are self-medicating.
The police chief's outrage is also understandable, but expanding law enforcement and criminalizing addicts is not the answer. What is needed is a public health and mental health approach that educates young people about depression and provides them with the tools and capacity to cope with this condition without becoming self-destructive.
Given the state of our economy, we will probably see more of this suffering and behavior in the future. Punishing people for their illness is expensive, wasteful and does nothing to reduce the demand for drugs. Through education and compassion, we can help those who are hurting to develop the self-management skills that will get them through tough times.
HOWARD JOSEPHER New York, April 20, 2011
The writer is the president and chief executive of Exponents, a drug treatment center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPRESSION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



572 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: M.I.T. Media Lab Names a New Director

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
For centuries diplomas have been synonymous with the nation's universities.
That makes the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's decision to name a 44-year old Japanese venture capitalist who attended, but did not graduate, from two American colleges as the director of one of the world's top computing science laboratories an unusual choice.
On Tuesday, the university plans to announce that Joichi Ito, known as Joi, will become the fourth director of the M.I.T. Media Laboratory, which was originally founded by the architect Nicholas Negroponte in 1985 and has since become recognized for its willingness to take risks in developing technologies that are at the edge of the computing frontier.
The Media Laboratory gained a global reputation during the 1990s as an avant-garde research center known for stunning high-technology demonstrations that pointed toward a future digital society. 
Indeed, the Media Lab has on occasion been criticized for overemphasizing flashy demos. During the 1990s, under Dr. Negroponte, the lab evolved a research culture of ''demo or die,'' rather than the standard academic ''publish or perish'' model.
The Media Lab pioneered a range of computing-based technologies like the Aspen Movie Map, a forerunner of Google Street View, the $100 Laptop, an educational tool intend for students in the developing world, and E Ink, the display technology that makes an AmazonKindle book reader viewable in bright sunlight.
Perhaps its most important role, however, has been in helping to nurture a generation of innovative designers like John Underkoffler, a user-interface designer who is now a Hollywood consultant and who provided most of the futuristic interface ideas seen in the movie ''Minority Report.''
In 1990, with American fears about Japan as a high-technology competitor running high, the Media Lab also briefly became a lightning rod for criticism after it struck a deal to transfer its research approach to Japanese industry and educational institutions.
Although that adds a touch of irony to the decision to choose Mr. Ito, he is neither a conventional Japanese technologist, nor your average college dropout.
Raised in both Tokyo and Silicon Valley, Mr. Ito was part of the first generation to grow up with the Internet. His career includes serving as a board member of Icann, the Internet's governance organization; becoming a ''guild master'' in the World of Warcraft online fantasy game; and more than a dozen investments in start-ups like Flickr, Last.fm and Twitter. In 1994 he helped establish the first commercial Internet service provider in Japan.
He was also an early participant in the open-source software movement and is a board member of the Mozilla Foundation, which oversees the development of the Firefox Web browse, as well as being the co-founder and chairman of Creative Commons, a nonprofit organization that has sought to create a middle ground to promote the sharing of digital information.
''The choice is radical, but brilliant,'' said Larry Smarr, director of the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology, a University of California laboratory that pursues a similar research agenda to the Media Laboratory. ''He can position the lab at the edge of change and propel it for a decade.''
Mr. Ito's appointment comes at a time when the Media Lab, as well as other information technology research centers, have struggled to reclaim the financing levels that were characteristic of the era of the dot-com boom. Although the lab gets the bulk of its $35 million annual budget from corporate and government sponsors, that amount has declined measurably as a percentage of the overall budget during the last decade, Dr. Negroponte said.
''Funding got tight in 2002 and even tighter in the last economic downturn,'' he said. That has made fund-raising the highest priority for the new director, he said. However, he added that Mr. Ito's particular leadership qualities made him stand out among the 250 candidates who were considered for the position.
''Joi is very good at enabling others,'' he said. ''I've never met a 44-year-old who is able to enable others in this way. Most people who are at that age are into themselves and their career.''
L. Rafael Reif, the provost of M.I.T., called Mr. Ito ''the right person to lead the Media Lab today,'' describing him as ''an innovative thinker who understands the tremendous potential of technology and, in particular, the Internet, to influence education, business, and society in general.''
Directing the Media Lab is an alluring challenge because of the potential of blending the longer term focus of university research and development efforts with the agility and risk-taking approach of Silicon Valley start-ups, Mr. Ito said.
''You embrace serendipity and you pivot as you go along this longer term arc. That's the way I have lived my life. I've jumped around in terms of career and geography,'' he said.
Mr. Ito, who maintains a home outside of Tokyo, became a resident of Dubai at the end of 2008 to gain a better understanding of the Middle East. He said that was part of his desire to understand intellectual property issues internationally and to become what he described as a ''global citizen.''
Even among the Internet generation, Mr. Ito has been extraordinary in the degree to which he has lived his life publicly and online in blog posts and on a dizzying array of social media. Last year he traveled about 230 days, and it is possible to follow his adventures on a Web site he maintains in text, images and video including a diving trip this month that involved feeding sharks in the Caribbean.
Mr. Ito first attended Tufts where he briefly studied computer science but wrote that he found it drudge work. Later he attended the University of Chicago where he studied physics, but once again found it stultifying. He later wrote of his experience: ''I once asked a professor to explain the solution to a problem so I could understand it more intuitively. He said, 'You can't understand it intuitively. Just learn the formula so you'll get the right answer.' That was it for me.''
Mr. Ito's colleagues minimize the fact that he is without academic credentials. ''He has credibility in an academic context,'' said Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Harvard Law School who co-founded Creative Commons. Mr. Ito is currently chairman. ''We've been collaborators, and I've stolen many ideas from him and turned them into my own.''
The Media Lab will benefit from a director who has Mr. Ito's global connections, said John Seely Brown, former director of Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center. ''What they really need right now is to have a two-way connection to the outside world. Who more to do that than Joi?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The choice of Joichi Ito, 44, to lead the Media Lab was called ''radical but brilliant.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIZUKA ITO) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (76%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (69%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (60%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); INTERNET BROWSERS (50%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



573 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Many Clashes, Few Kind Words Between Mayor and Comptroller

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Within minutes of boarding his private jet last November, destined for Hong Kong, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg dispensed with the pleasantries and confronted his main guest, John C. Liu, the city comptroller: Why are you blocking a crucial city contract?
The two barely talked afterward, according to people briefed on the trip: not on the 21-hour journey, not during a conference on climate change, and not during a tour of a factory. (Mr. Liu returned on a commercial flight, which he had planned to do all along.)
Sixteen months into their concurrent terms as New York City's top two elected officials, Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Liu have made it clear that they do not care much for each other.
They rarely appear at the same events, much less announce joint initiatives. They have dined together only once or twice. And they have clashed so often, whether over multimillion-dollar contracts, teacher layoffs or pension costs, that some political insiders view anything Mr. Liu does as a personal attack against Mr. Bloomberg. 
To the mayor, Mr. Liu has become a union mouthpiece intent on using him as a foil for a campaign for the mayor's office in 2013.
After one recent report by the comptroller's office, one senior administration official said: ''It's fair to say the mayor is not particularly pleased. From the mayor's perspective, there is plenty of taunting and jabbing going on. You cannot partner with John. We understand that we're being used as a platform in his mayoral campaign.''
To Mr. Liu, Mr. Bloomberg, who is in his third term, is simply unaccustomed to aggressive scrutiny. The comptroller is just doing his job, his allies say, by exposing questionable contracts and insisting on transparency from City Hall.
''If the mayor is saying that we need to tighten our belts and we all have to be accountable, then what John is doing is, 'I'm trying to make sure the city is being held accountable,' '' said Michael Mulgrew, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, who has clashed with Mr. Bloomberg over plans for teacher layoffs. ''Why the mayor would have a problem with that is beyond me.''
Asked to characterize their relationship, Mr. Mulgrew said, diplomatically, ''I've seen better.''
Neither the mayor nor the comptroller would agree to be interviewed for this article. But a portrait of a distant and strained relationship emerged from interviews with more than two dozen aides, political consultants, union leaders and friends of both men, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to anger either man.
Still, Eric V. Eve, the first deputy comptroller, stressed that ''a press release or a plane ride'' should not overshadow the offices' collaborative work.
''You may focus on the flash points between the two, but I think you'd have to look at the last 16 months and all they have accomplished together as the best gauge of how they're doing,'' he said, noting that Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Liu talked regularly.
Marc La Vorgna, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said that the mayor appreciated the importance of Mr. Liu's job. ''If he can identify productive ideas about how the city can operate more efficiently,'' Mr. La Vorgna said, ''that is a good thing and we want that input.''
Tension is inherent between any mayor and comptroller; the comptroller's job, after all, involves making sure City Hall is not wasting taxpayer dollars.
But Mr. Bloomberg, an independent, had a much better rapport with Mr. Liu's predecessor, William C. Thompson Jr., a Democrat whom he defeated in the 2009 mayor's race. The two ate together and played occasional rounds of golf. And they did not hesitate to praise each other's work.
Mr. Bloomberg has rarely said anything complimentary about Mr. Liu, also a Democrat.
''It is ice-cold, colder than anything I've ever seen,'' said one consultant who has known several mayors and comptrollers.
The only scheduled news conference featuring the two occurred during the Hong Kong trip. Back home, Mr. Liu did join an unplanned news conference with other officials, including Mr. Bloomberg, after the December blizzard.
Mr. Bloomberg also invited Mr. Liu to the Yankees' 2010 home opener, at the new stadium, but was apparently irritated when Mr. Liu left after only a couple of innings.
Mr. Eve, however, played down their lack of scheduling synchronicity.
''There's no grand plan here to avoid or evade one another,'' he said. ''They've got a style and approach that works for them.''
The discord between the two dates back to when Mr. Liu, as a feisty member of the City Council from Queens, led the Transportation Committee, and frequently needled the administration. After initially backing a mall project in Flushing that had been promoted by the administration, Mr. Liu withdrew his support when the city reduced the number of parking spots required and altered other parts of the plan.
In the comptroller's race, some of Mr. Bloomberg's political allies helped Mr. Liu's chief opponent, David S. Yassky, who is now the chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission. The day after the election, Mr. Liu, citing prior commitments, declined Mr. Bloomberg's invitation for a meeting at a Manhattan restaurant.
Mr. Bloomberg has apparently not called Mr. Liu since.
As part of his agenda, Mr. Liu has blasted the administration's $700 million CityTime automated payroll project, which is now the focus of a federal corruption case. He has accused the Economic Development Corporation, a favorite target, of owing the city more than $125 million.
In one audit with the headline ''Sloppy Management Opened Door to Salary Padding,'' he accused the Law Department of handing out $186,000 in unauthorized overtime to computer specialists, janitors and other staff members.
''I think John is smartly seeing that the administration is on its heels, and it's driving them crazy,'' one consultant said.
At times, however, Mr. Liu seems to stretch the facts in finding fault: he joined Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, for example, in slamming the mayor as being too apocalyptic in his budget warnings, attracting news media attention. But his own office's reports have been more pessimistic than the mayor's in analyzing the city's budget shortfall.
In March, Mr. Liu, wading into a policy debate over teacher layoffs, rejected a Department of Education contract on teacher recruitment, saying, ''Twenty million dollars to recruit teachers as the D.O.E. insists on laying off thousands of teachers seems curious at best.''
But the actual reason for the contract rejection, according to public records, was far more mundane and drew far less attention: liability insurance and conflict of interest waivers for employees.
In a challenge to Mr. Liu, Mr. Bloomberg has created his own pension investment office and appointed a senior lawyer, Carolyn M. Wolpert, to the new position of chief pension administrator. One official explained that the mayor wanted to offset what he felt was a heavy union tilt to the pension boards.
Mr. Liu also issued two reports that some budget analysts said had more of a political and pro-union tinge than reports prepared by Mr. Thompson or the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli.
As Carol Kellerman, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group that monitors city spending, put it: ''They made a lot of methodological choices, the validity of which are subject to debate.''
One report concluded that public workers made less money than their private counterparts. The other said that exploding pension costs were attributable, overwhelmingly, to stock market losses, and not wages and benefits bestowed upon union workers.
Mr. Bloomberg was curt in his assessment.
''I have no idea how the comptroller comes up with those numbers,'' he told reporters. ''He's certainly welcome to say whatever he thinks. Whether it's accurate or not, I don't know.''
Mr. Liu did not back down.
''There they go again,'' he was quoted as saying in one news account. ''I think the major flaw is we don't simply echo what the mayor's been saying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Xu Qin of Shenzhen, China, left, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and John C. Liu, the city comptroller, on Nov. 5. Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Liu were in China for a climate-change forum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); LABOR UNIONS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (58%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



574 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The Big Disconnect

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
On one level, American politics looks amazingly stable. President Obama's approval rating is about 47 percent, and it hasn't changed much in well over a year. Health care reform is mildly unpopular, and the public's view hasn't shifted much since before it was passed.
According to Pew Research Center polls, the public is evenly divided over which party can do a better job of handling foreign policy, the job situation, Social Security reform, health care reform and many other issues. It looks as if we're back to the 50-50 stasis that has been the norm for the past few decades. 
Moreover, the two parties are about to run utterly familiar political campaigns. The Democrats are going to promise to raise taxes on the rich to preserve the welfare state, just as they have since 1980. The Republicans are going to vow to cut taxes and introduce market mechanisms to reform the welfare state, just as they have since 1980.
The country is about to be offered the same two products: one from Soviet Production Facility A (the Republicans), and the other from Soviet Production Facility B (the Democrats). It will react just as it always has.
From this you could easily get the impression that American politics are trundling along as usual. But this stability is misleading. The current arrangements are stagnant but also fragile. American politics is like a boxing match atop a platform. Once you're on the platform, everything looks normal. But when you step back, you see that the beams and pillars supporting the platform are cracking and rotting.
This cracking and rotting is originally caused by a series of structural problems that transcend any economic cycle: There are structural problems in the economy as growth slows and middle-class incomes stagnate. There are structural problems in the welfare state as baby boomers spend lavishly on themselves and impose horrendous costs on future generations. There are structural problems in energy markets as the rise of China and chronic instability in the Middle East leads to volatile gas prices. There are structural problems with immigration policy and tax policy and on and on.
As these problems have gone unaddressed, Americans have lost faith in the credibility of their political system, which is the one resource the entire regime is predicated upon. This loss of faith has contributed to a complex but dark national mood. The country is anxious, pessimistic, ashamed, helpless and defensive.
The share of Americans who say they trust government to do the right thing most of the time is scuttling along at historic lows. Approval of Congress and most other institutions has slid. Seventy percent of Americans think the country is on the wrong track, according to The New York Times/CBS News poll. Nearly two-thirds believe the nation is in decline, according to a variety of surveys.
Over the past months, we've seen a fascinating phenomenon. The public mood has detached from the economic cycle. In normal times, economic recoveries produce psychological recoveries. At least at the moment, that seems not to be happening.
The U.S. has experienced nine straight months of slow economic growth. The unemployment rate has fallen, and, in March, the U.S. economy added a robust 216,000 jobs. Yet the public mood is darkening, not brightening. The New York Times/CBS News poll showed a 13 percentage point increase in the number of Americans who believe things are getting worse. The Gallup Economic Confidence Index is now as low as it has been since the height of the recession.
Public opinion is not behaving the way it did after other recent recessions.
If you dive deeper into the polling, you see the country is not mobilized by this sense of crisis but immobilized by it. Raising taxes on the rich is popular, but nearly every other measure that might be taken to address the fiscal crisis is deeply unpopular. Sixty-three percent of Americans oppose raising the debt ceiling; similar majorities oppose measures to make that sort of thing unnecessary.
There is a negativity bias in the country, especially among political independents and people earning between $30,000 and $75,000 (who have become extremely gloomy). It is hard to rally majorities behind immigration, energy or tax reform.
At some point something is going to happen to topple the political platform -- maybe a debt crisis, maybe when China passes the United States as the world's largest economy, perhaps as early as 2016. At that point, we could see changes that are unimaginable today.
New political forces will emerge from the outside or the inside. A semi-crackpot outsider like Donald Trump could storm the gates and achieve astonishing political stature. Alternatively, insiders like the Simpson-Bowles commission or the Senate's bipartisan ''Gang of Six'' could assert authority and recreate a strong centrist political establishment, such as the nation enjoyed in the 1950s.
Neither seems likely now. But in these circumstances, rule out nothing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); TAX INCREASES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



575 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Technology Advances; Humans Supersize

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
For nearly three decades, the Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert W. Fogel and a small clutch of colleagues have assiduously researched what the size and shape of the human body say about economic and social changes throughout history, and vice versa. Their research has spawned not only a new branch of historical study but also a provocative theory that technology has sped human evolution in an unprecedented way during the past century.
Next month Cambridge University Press will publish the capstone of this inquiry, ''The Changing Body: Health, Nutrition, and Human Development in the Western World Since 1700,'' just a few weeks shy of Mr. Fogel's 85th birthday. The book, which sums up the work of dozens of researchers on one of the most ambitious projects undertaken in economic history, is sure to renew debates over Mr. Fogel's groundbreaking theories about what some regard as the most significant development in humanity's long history. 
Mr. Fogel and his co-authors, Roderick Floud, Bernard Harris and Sok Chul Hong, maintain that ''in most if not quite all parts of the world, the size, shape and longevity of the human body have changed more substantially, and much more rapidly, during the past three centuries than over many previous millennia.'' What's more, they write, this alteration has come about within a time frame that is ''minutely short by the standards of Darwinian evolution.''
''The rate of technological and human physiological change in the 20th century has been remarkable,'' Mr. Fogel said in an telephone interview from Chicago, where he is the director of the Center for Population Economics at the University of Chicago's business school. ''Beyond that, a synergy between the improved technology and physiology is more than the simple addition of the two.''
This ''technophysio evolution,'' powered by advances in food production and public health, has so outpaced traditional evolution, the authors argue, that people today stand apart not just from every other species, but from all previous generations of Homo sapiens as well.
''I don't know that there is a bigger story in human history than the improvements in health, which include height, weight, disability and longevity,'' said Samuel H. Preston, one of the world's leading demographers and a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania. Without the 20th century's improvements in nutrition, sanitation and medicine, only half of the current American population would be alive today, he said.
To take just a few examples, the average adult man in 1850 in America stood about 5 feet 7 inches and weighed about 146 pounds; someone born then was expected to live until about 45. In the 1980s the typical man in his early 30s was about 5 feet 10 inches tall, weighed about 174 pounds and was likely to pass his 75th birthday.
Across the Atlantic, at the time of the French Revolution, a 30-something Frenchman weighed about 110 pounds, compared with 170 pounds now. And in Norway an average 22-year-old man was about 5 1/2 inches taller at the end of the 20th century (5 feet 10.7 inches) than in the middle of the 18th century (5 feet 5.2 inches).
Mr. Fogel and his colleagues' great achievement was to figure out a way to measure some of that gain in body size, Mr. Preston said. Much of the evidence -- childhood growth, mortality, adult living standards, labor productivity, food and manufacturing output -- was available, but no one had put it all together in this way before. Over the years Mr. Fogel and his colleagues have pored over a monumental amount of raw data to piece together the health records of thousands of people in different countries. When he won the Nobel in economics in 1993, the Swedish committee stated it was ''for having renewed research in economic history by applying economic theory and quantitative methods in order to explain economic and institutional change.''
''The Changing Body'' is full of statistical tables and graphs that include the heights of girls in Croatia and Germany; the caloric energy derived from potatoes, fish and wine; and the average annual allowance of grains and meat for widows in Middlesex County, Mass., from 1654 to 1799 -- a testament to both the staggering accumulation of information and the collaborative nature of the enterprise.
But the basic argument is rather simple: that the health and nutrition of pregnant mothers and their children contribute to the strength and longevity of the next generation. If babies are deprived of sufficient nutrition in the womb and early in life, they will be more fragile and more vulnerable to diseases later on. These weakened adults will, in turn, produce weaker offspring in a self-reinforcing spiral.
Technology rescued humankind from centuries of physical maladies and malnutrition, Mr. Fogel argues. Before the 19th century, most people were caught in an endless cycle of subsistence farming. A colonial-era farmer, for example, worked about 78 hours during a five-and-a-half-day week. People needed more food to grow and gain strength, but they were unable to produce more food without being stronger.
The new book is not yet available, but experts familiar with Mr. Fogel's work say that disagreements have arisen over his explanations for improved health in the West. Mr. Preston agrees that technology has superpowered human evolution over the past hundred years, but in his view the prevention of infectious diseases has not received sufficient credit.
''In many parts of the world, including the United States in the 20th century, medical advances appear to be at least as important as improvements in nutritional intake,'' he said.
Mr. Preston pointed in particular to public health practices -- like protecting water supplies, installing sewage systems and hand washing and quarantining in hospitals -- that were instituted in American cities, beginning in the 1890s. An infinite supply of food is irrelevant, for example, if you can't prevent chronic childhood diarrhea. Height dipped in the late 18th century when poor sanitation and infectious diseases plagued crowded new cities.
Angus Deaton, an economist at Princeton University who researches health in rich and poor countries, says he admires Mr. Fogel's work as well, but he too is skeptical about the emphasis on nutrition, as well as about some of the conclusions researchers have inferred from height.
''We don't really understand why African adults and children are so much taller than Indian adults and children, but it can't be their income, because Indians are much richer,'' he said. India has twice the per capita income of Kenya and about three times that of Tanzania.
Mr. Fogel's work could have significant consequences for determining policies for the developing world. Just last week researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health published a paper that used the height of women in 54 low- and middle-income countries to indicate how children in Africa, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East were faring. (The answer was not good: height had stayed the same or declined, particularly in Africa, suggesting that living conditions and disease controls for children have deteriorated.)
The best way to combat such decline depends on the cause-and-effect relationships among economic growth, nutrition and health, Mr. Deaton said. If food production is the most important factor, then focusing on economic growth might be the best policy, but if infectious disease is a major reason for chronic illness and premature death, then more aggressive public health measures might also be needed.
To Carole Shammas, an expert in socioeconomic history at the University of Southern California, the problem in her field is that historians have not paid enough attention to changes in height (as a useful measure of nutrition and disease) or in lifespan. History textbooks, she complained, almost completely ignore the topic.
One thing Mr. Fogel did not expect when he first started his research was that ''overnutrition'' would become the primary health problem in the United States and other Western nations. Obesity, which increases the risk of heart disease, stroke, hypertension and some cancers, threatens to upset the links in the upward march of size, health and longevity that he and his colleagues have spent years documenting.
But Mr. Fogel said that he remained an optimist at heart. The human body is enormously flexible and responsive, he said, a fact that fills him with confidence that ''the trend of larger bodies and longer lives will continue into the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert W. Fogel has linked human physiology and economics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) CHART: The Growing American: A new book due out next month examines changes in body size of Western Europeans and Americans since the 1700s. The average height of native-born American men rose four inches between 1890 and 1980. (Source: ''The Changing Body,'' by Floud, Fogel, Harris and Hong)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); WRITERS (89%); EVOLUTION THEORY (89%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Changing Body: Health, Nutrition, and Human Development in the Western World Since 1700, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



576 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and CHRIS V. NICHOLSON

 BODY:
U.S. PROBLEMS Private equity has long had an eye on Asia as a land of opportunity. But few buyout magnates have forcefully spoken about the declining fortunes of the United States. 
David M. Rubenstein, left, of the Carlyle Group did just that on Tuesday at Thomson Reuters's Buyouts conference. He cited several well-known problems, including the debate over Social Security and the large deficit. Until those are solved, he said, the country will not be able to resolve its high unemployment rate. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
BUYOUT DEAL Lawson Software announced on Tuesday that it would be bought by the private equity firm Golden Gate Capital in a $2 billion buyout deal.
Under the terms of the deal, GGC Software Holdings, an affiliate of Golden Gate Capital and its portfolio company Infor, will pay $11.25 a share for Lawson. The price represents a 14 percent premium to Lawson's share price in early March, before speculation of a deal emerged.
DROPPING OUT Minmetals Resources, the state-controlled Chinese mining company that made an unsolicited bid for Equinox Minerals this month, said on Tuesday that it had dropped its offer after being outbid by the Barrick Gold Corporation.
On Monday, Barrick Gold made a friendly $7.7 billion bid, which was approved by the Equinox board. ''Competing with Barrick at these prices would, in our view, be value destructive for M.M.R.'s shareholders,'' Andrew Michelmore, above, chief executive of Minmetals, said in a statement. CHRIS V. NICHOLSON
LIFELINE American Apparel confirmed on Tuesday that it had secured $14.9 million in financing from a group of Canadian investors. Under the deal, American Apparel will sell some 15.8 million shares of common stock at 90 cents a share to a group of investors led by Michael Serruya and Delavaco Capital.
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMMON STOCK (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); MINES & MINING (67%); APPROVALS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (83%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); GOLDEN GATE CAPITAL LP (57%); LAWSON SOFTWARE INC (57%); MMG LTD (55%)

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (83%); ABX (NYSE) (83%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%); 1208 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (83%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



577 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Dungeons and Zombies, Sure, But Here the Trade's the Thing

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
IRVINE, Calif. -- Writing about a game that hasn't been released to the public can be risky. It might end up as vaporware or simply not live up to the awesome impression that publishers can gin up in a short, canned demonstration. But when it comes to a new game from Blizzard Entertainment, perhaps the world's most accomplished and prestigious developer, an exception seems merited.
And if there is one game in the pipeline I can't wait to play on my own time, it's Blizzard's Diablo III.
So on Monday I found myself within Blizzard's gated, guarded headquarters complex here, navigating my witch doctor and his canine minions through the Torture Chambers of the Mad King. (I didn't actually fly across the country to preview this game; I was visiting Orange County for a family function and stopped in at Blizzard.) For about an hour I explored the dungeon, hurling lightning bolts, summoning zombies and unleashing swarms of locusts to decimate the waves of bloodthirsty foes standing between me and the next treasure chest. 
I don't think an hour has ever passed so quickly.
And that, of course, is what Diablo is all about: drawing you in so pleasurably, almost hypnotically, that time becomes an abstraction. At that, it appears Diablo III may end up without peer (at least in the electronic realm).
The original Diablo, released in 1997, basically invented the genre of action role-playing video games. While traditional role-playing games can be enjoyably painstaking affairs that test players' ability to master tactics, complex rule systems and dozens of skills and abilities, Diablo has always been an orgy of wanton slashing and hacking. In the universe of Diablo and its imitators, like Torchlight, you are truly a conquering hero, mowing down evil monsters and raking in loot.
The brilliant, fundamental roots of the Diablo game-play style are both psychological and neuromuscular.
Diablo's main lure is randomization. Every time you step into a dungeon, it's different. The layout has changed from the last time, and so have the monsters. Most important, though, each time you kill some slavering, otherworldly abomination, you never know what it may be carrying. Most likely, it will be garbage. But there is a slim chance that you'll end up with an incredibly powerful relic that no other player in the world has seen. That's because each piece of treasure is generated randomly.
Call it the slot-machine effect. Every time you pull that handle, you might, just might, hit the jackpot. You probably won't, but the tantalizing possibility keeps you playing. (The human brain's eager response to intermittent rewards is well known and explains much of the appeal of sports like golf, where the memory and feeling of one good shot maintains players' interest even though they are hacking around dreadfully most of the time.)
Like a well-designed slot machine, a good action role-playing game also satisfies the brain's craving for feedback by rewarding near-constant clicking of the mouse (or the pulling of the entirely cosmetic wooden handle) with a steady stream of little audio cues like chimes and bloops.
To the uncharitable or suspicious, this could all sound a bit manipulative. But every successful mass-market product or service reflects a sophisticated understanding of consumer psychology and behavior.
Yet for all its power, the slot-machine effect is in many ways only a short-term hook. Diablo's long-term draw is its online community and, particularly, its virtual economy.
Jay Wilson, Blizzard's game director for Diablo III, has been working on the project full time for five years. (Others on the team have been at it even longer.) Mr. Wilson knows what keeps folks coming back.
''At its core, Diablo is about trading,'' he said. Here's why: in Diablo, the statistics and attributes of each item that drops from a fallen monster are generated on the fly. That means every item is potentially unique. So if you find, say, a halberd that inflicts extra damage to demons, increases your strength, leaches health from your foes and increases the amount of gold you discover (a potent combination), it is possible that no one else has ever found a halberd with that exact combination of goodies.
This is far different from a persistent online game like Blizzard's World of Warcraft, where each item must be individually, meticulously designed and fixed in its attributes so that it is properly balanced for its location in the game universe and the difficulty of obtaining it. Players there want to know that if they get together with 10 or 20 people and spend four hours conquering a certain dungeon, they will certainly reap specific rewards.
Diablo, by contrast, is about jumping in and seeing what fate brings. But what if you uncover that great halberd, and you happen to be a physically feeble wizard who can't use big, two-handed weapons at all? (The five classes in Diablo III are barbarian, wizard, demon hunter, monk and witch doctor -- each with a distinctive style of play.)
That's where the trading comes in. Now, out of millions of other players, you want to find a magic-fearing barbarian who has come across, say, an enchanted staff that inflicts extra damage to wilderness beasts, increases the bearer's willpower, leaches magic from enemies and increases the holder's chance of finding additional magic items (also a potent combination). But how do you find that guy and make the trade?
In Diablo II, released in 2000, you had to sit in any of hundreds of chat channels for hours, advertising the deal you sought. If your prospective partner was in another channel, you might never find him (or, far less likely, her).
Blizzard knows that just won't cut it anymore. Today's players will demand simple yet powerful tools to create their own bustling virtual economy without the tedium. Call it an advanced sort of auction house.
Once Diablo III arrives, millions of players will generate items of randomized treasure every day. That can make eBay look like a flea market. Keeping track of it all online and designing trading tools that can handle that kind of volume is a gargantuan programming and design challenge. It is one big reason Blizzard has been working on the game for so long. And it may also be why the company hasn't detailed or demonstrated Diablo III's trading systems yet.
It appears distinctly possible that Diablo could be the first Blizzard franchise to make the leap from PCs to consoles like the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, but Blizzard isn't talking about that. Blizzard has also not announced a release date -- or year -- for Diablo III. But as Mr. Wilson put it: ''We're definitely in the home stretch. We're crunching. This is when the magic happens.''
To my admittedly biased (and eager) ears, that sounds as if the Blizzard folks wanted to get the game out in 2011. What they've shown so far looks good. But I, and millions of others, can hardly wait to see the full package of what they come up with.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A witch doctor keeps enemies at bay in Diablo III, a new version of a video game first released in 1997 that helped define the action role-playing genre.(C1)
 Diablo III, above and below, blends a heroic game with chances to trade powerful weapons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BLIZZARD ENTERTAINMENT)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

TITLE: Diablo III (Video Game)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



578 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Remains in Distress as U.S. Home Prices Fall Again

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Housing prices slid back in February to their lowest level of the downturn, fresh proof -- as if any were needed -- that real estate remains one of the most troubled sectors of the economy.
The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Index for 20 metropolitan areas dropped 1.1 percent from January, S.& P. said Tuesday.
By the barest of margins, the index failed to plumb new depths. It is now at 139.27, essentially the same as the low of 139.26 that it reached in April 2009. 
Housing prices are falling even though banks have been pulling back on foreclosures, which generally drive neighborhood prices down. They are falling despite low interest rates, which make houses more affordable. And they are falling even though they have already dropped by a third from their heady peaks in mid-decade.
''It looks pretty bad,'' the chairman of the S.& P. index committee, David M. Blitzer, said. ''Could it get a little worse? Sure. Could it get a whole lot worse, so everywhere looks the way Detroit looks now? To get there, you'd have to paint a really, really grim picture.''
Another devastating recession, perhaps? Potential buyers scorning en masse the notion of ownership? Mr. Blitzer does not see those happening.
This will be small comfort for anyone trying to sell in this environment, or merely wondering where the money for retirement will come from. Washington was the only Case-Shiller city where prices went up over the last year. But even it dropped slightly in February. Ten of the cities in the index, including Atlanta, Charlotte, Chicago, New York and Seattle, hit a low for the cycle during the month. That was one fewer than January.
Detroit was the exception. Why Detroit, by far the worst housing market in the country, rose when everywhere else was sliding is a statistical mystery.
For the 20 cities, prices are down 3.3 percent in the last 12 months. That is not much compared to the precipitous drops of 2008 and 2009 but some see the declines accelerating.
Capital Economics, a forecasting group in Toronto, previously said prices would drop about 5 percent this year. ''That forecast is looking increasingly realistic,'' Paul Dales, a senior United States economist, wrote in a note to clients.
Another 5 percent decline in the index would take it back to about 133. While that equates to a 33 percent gain for homeowners since 2000, it is just about nothing after inflation is factored in. And those would be the lucky ones, who bought long ago.
Most economists think the market is in transition to something resembling stability, although few expect genuine price increases anytime soon.
''Things are moving in the direction of getting better,'' said Eric Fox, vice president for statistical and economic modeling for the consultant Veros.
Among the helpful trends: The oversupply of houses that characterized the early stages of the downturn is gradually being absorbed, the employment situation is marginally better and interest rates are not increasing.
Veros is forecasting that stronger markets, including Pittsburgh, Buffalo and Shreveport, La., will increase 2 to 3 percent over the next year, while the weakest markets will fall about 5 percent. Weak markets include Las Vegas, Orlando, Fla., and Portland, Ore.
''Foreclosures are the big unknown,'' Mr. Fox said. ''If there is a huge influx, that can have an effect.''
The Case-Shiller index, which measures repeat sales of houses, is an imperfect measure of the real estate market. The index is a three-month moving average, so the February results include December and January.
Other indexes also describe a troubled market, however. The Federal Housing Finance Agency's index, which is calculated using the purchase prices of houses with mortgages that have been sold to or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the government loan repositories, is declining at a faster rate than previously.
The F.H.F.A. index fell 1.6 percent in February from the previous month, the agency said last week, while the January decline was revised up to 1 percent. In the last year, the index has fallen nearly 6 percent.
If some troubled owners are beginning to reject the notion of homeownership, a few renters are sensing this might be their moment.
''Talking about how the recession is bad for home builders and sellers ignores an entire segment of the country for whom this is a blessing,'' said Abby Eagye, 41.
A writer, skiing instructor and emergency medical worker, Ms. Eagye lives in Aspen, Colo., where the wealthy roam. But the crash has yielded some surprising deals. Ms. Eagye is pulling together a down payment.
''I missed the real estate window once and I don't care to do it again,'' she said. ''I have no false dreams of flipping homes to make money. I just want the safety of owning my own home.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A home for sale in Atlanta, one of 10 cities where home prices dropped to a new low in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



579 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Amazon Earnings Hurt by Spending as Revenue Increases 38%

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Amazon.com's expansion of its online retailing and cloud computing businesses has eroded profits.
The building binge of warehouses and data centers sacrificed Amazon's short-term profits to lift business over the long term, the company said on Tuesday when it released its first-quarter earnings statement.
It also said that it had no intention of slowing the spending. 
The effect of the expansion, along with an uncertain economy, could be seen in Amazon's second-quarter financial forecast. The company gave a profit outlook that was far from specific but below analysts' expectations.
It said its second-quarter profit, excluding certain costs, would fall as much as 65 percent or as little as 9 percent.
Meanwhile, Amazon said revenue would rise 35 percent to 47 percent, or $8.85 billion to $9.65 billion.
Thomas J. Szkutak, Amazon's chief financial officer, explained the wide range by saying during a conference call that ''there is uncertainty, so we are making sure to give an appropriate conservative range.''
In after-hours trading, Amazon's shares fell about 1 percent. They had dropped 1.7 percent, to $182.30, in regular trading before the earnings announcement.
Amazon reported that first-quarter net income fell 33 percent, to $201 million, or 44 cents a share, from $299 million, or 66 cents in the period a year ago.
Revenue climbed 38 percent, to $9.86 billion, from $7.13 billion.
Net income was below the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected 61 cents a share and revenue of $9.52 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
Amazon is undergoing a major expansion this year that calls for adding at least nine warehouses after adding 13 warehouses last year. If growth in customer orders continues, however, it will add even more fulfillment centers, Mr. Szkutak said.
Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, was not on the call.
The company, based in Seattle, said that sales of books and music during the quarter rose 15 percent, to $3.96 billion.
Sales of electronics and other merchandise grew 59 percent, to $5.59 billion.
As usual, Amazon boasted about its Kindle digital book reader but did not provide any specific sales numbers.
Data centers are crucial to its digital music storage service, introduced late last month. Consumers can use the service to back up files from their computers and then gain access to them from a computer, laptop or smartphone.
Adding data center capacity is especially important for Amazon's Web hosting service, which stores data for a large number of businesses.
Last week, after the first quarter ended, the hosting service suffered an embarrassing failure.
The glitch, which the company said was fixed on Monday, took down a number of Web sites, including Foursquare, Reddit and Quora.
Amazon is still looking into the cause, Mr. Szkutak said.
Youssef H. Squali, an analyst with Jefferies & Company, said of Amazon's spending on infrastructure, ''this is the right strategy longer term but it makes for a stressful stock to own.'' Given the potential for growth overseas, he said that Amazon's expansion could go on for several years.
And, Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst with Caris & Company, said that Amazon's profit shortfall relative to expectations and its disappointing guidance were not particularly worrisome. The company is growing quickly, he pointed out, and it therefore needs to invest in its business by building.
''We see that as a good problem to have,'' Mr. Aggarwal said.
Japan's earthquake and subsequent disasters bit into Amazon's business in the first quarter, reducing operating income by $20 million.
Japan accounts for up to 15 percent of the company's business, according to analyst estimates.
Sales in Japan are picking up, Mr. Szkutak said, but they continue to be weak as the country tries to rebuild.
Meanwhile, analysts expect high gasoline prices in the United States and in other countries to increase Amazon's shipping costs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Web retailer Amazon continues to add warehouses, like this one in Phoenix, and data centers, to increase future business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); MUSIC (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (90%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



580 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: A State Manager Takes Over And Cuts What a City Can't

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
BENTON HARBOR, Mich. -- Every first and third Monday of the month for as long as anyone can remember, this city's elected commissioners have gathered in their musty second-floor chambers to contend with issues large and small -- reports of gaping potholes, proposals to sell city land, an annual budget plan.
But as of this month, they are literally powerless, and hold no authority to make any decisions. Not even on potholes.
The city is now run by Joseph L. Harris, an accountant and auditor from miles away, one of a small cadre of ''emergency managers'' dispatched like firefighters by the state to put out financial blazes in Michigan's most troubled cities. 
In Benton Harbor, where, records show, finances have spiraled downward in a morass of commingled funds, puzzling accounting and unchecked spending, Mr. Harris has been handed sweeping new powers under recent state legislation that emergency managers like him say was needed to remedy dire situations.
Critics say the new powers, granted by the state's new Republican leadership, are Michigan's way to shrink benefits for public workers and undermine the strength of labor unions, just as officials have tried in Indiana, Ohio and Wisconsin.
Michigan's state-appointed emergency managers do have authority to set aside union contracts, giving the state, in the eyes of some, the opportunity to crush any local union deals in the name of budget repair.
''It's dictatorship, plain and simple,'' said Dennis Knowles, a city commissioner who sat in a darkened, mostly empty City Hall office the other day.
But Mr. Harris insisted that politics and the future of collective bargaining have no bearing on anything he is doing.
''I'm looking at what's good for Benton Harbor, nothing more, nothing less,'' Mr. Harris said. ''And until you can break the contracts, your hands are tied.''
Only four entities in Michigan, including Detroit's public school system, currently are deemed distressed enough to require oversight by emergency managers. But some economists predict those ranks will grow, given cuts in aid from the state and stagnant tax revenues.
Now a fight over the managers is escalating around the state. Last week, pension funds in Detroit filed a lawsuit against Gov. Rick Snyder and others, challenging the measure that, according to the lawsuit, vests the arriving managers with ''czar-like powers.''
Others see new career opportunities: last week, 400 people took part in a two-day training session about emergency managers at a Radisson Hotel in Lansing. Some were local leaders trying to keep their towns from needing such financial oversight, while others hoped to become emergency managers themselves.
Around the nation, states have long had a range of methods -- from oversight boards to appointed receivers -- to step in when cities are teetering near bankruptcy. A financial control board helped pull New York City from the brink in the 1970s. But the powers and duties of such bodies vary widely, as do views about whether they help, long term.
Few places face as severe financial struggles as Benton Harbor, a city of about 10,000 people beside Lake Michigan where almost half the residents are estimated to be living below the poverty line.
A financial review assigned by the state in 2009 found that the city had mishandled federal tax payments. It inappropriately borrowed from money to handle shortfalls in others, and its bookkeeping was sloppy.
And so last year, the administration of Mr. Snyder's predecessor, Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat, sent in Mr. Harris, Detroit's former auditor general and its former chief financial officer.
Mr. Harris began paying debts, laying off workers and considering a plan to merge the fire and police departments into a single unit where firefighters could ultimately answer burglary calls and police officers could put out fires.
Last November, Mr. Snyder was elected governor and Republicans gained control of both chambers of Michigan's Legislature. Last month, lawmakers approved legislation to vastly expand the power of emergency managers, which sent thousands of demonstrators to Lansing.
Mr. Snyder said important elements of the bill had been overlooked -- it creates ways to gauge fiscal distress in cities before they wind up needing an emergency manager, he said.
And for cities in desperate trouble, sweeping control by an outside manager would make it possible to fix things faster -- and avoid devastating prospects like bankruptcy.
''It's not an assault on collective bargaining, the way I viewed it,'' Mr. Snyder said. ''It's about helping communities and municipalities do the best they can to survive during difficult economic times.''
The issue has divided Benton Harbor. Jeremy Connell, who leads the firefighters' union, said he is anxious about negotiations for a new contract. He dislikes some of Mr. Harris's plans (the combined police-fire services could be unsafe, he says). ''But then I think, what choice do we have?'' Mr. Connell said.
Others, bitter after years of broken political promises, say they welcome Mr. Harris -- anyone, really. ''We need help,'' said Maurice Graham, a resident.
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Harris, 67, who has moved into a rented apartment here, juggled a frenetic schedule.
With his broadened powers, he has removed members from the planning commission and a brownfields authority board and installed his own choices. He is privatizing management of the water department.
His vision for the fire department? ''They don't get paid for just being here, they get paid for doing things,'' he said. That said, Mr. Harris also says he understands the benefit of collective bargaining, and is not out to take that away. (For the record, he has voted for Democrats in the past, but says his worries about ''extremes'' in both parties mean he probably would not classify himself with either for now.)
Mr. Harris's job is temporary, until the city is found by the state to be on its feet, and some people here appear to be counting the moments until he leaves. Several commissioners seethed as they described how Mr. Harris this month issued a blunt written directive permitting the commission only to meet, to approve the minutes of their meetings and to adjourn -- but to conduct no real city business.
One commissioner glowered at Mr. Harris (whom the city is required to pay $11,000 a month under his state contract) when they crossed paths in City Hall.
But Mr. Harris says he is focused on the prospect of Benton Harbor breaking even this year, and is undeterred by any hostility.
''That's all a distraction,'' he said. He seemed puzzled by all the fuss over his recent dealings with the commissioners; he has simply informed them, he said, of how Michigan has broadened the reach of emergency managers.
''All I told them was, 'Hey, guys, you have no authority,' '' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hosea Turner Sr., left, and Maurice Graham, say Benton Harbor, Mich., needs help, but some are unhappy with the state-appointed manager, Joseph Harris, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LITIGATION (76%); HOTEL STAFF (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (98%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



581 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Trading Trial Captivates South Asians

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK; Peter Lattman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A simple phrase signaled the end of small talk, a pause before the exchange of business tips that were of great interest to federal investigators listening in on a wiretap.
''Accha,'' the associate said. ''What else is going on?''
The Hindi word, which roughly means ''all right,'' was rarely heard a generation ago in Wall Street's boardrooms or trading floors -- or on trial tapes. But it appears over and over in transcripts of the phone conversations of Raj Rajaratnam, whose insider-trading case, the government's largest in decades, was handed to jurors on Monday. 
For many South Asian professionals in New York, the trial of Mr. Rajaratnam, a native of Sri Lanka, has become a gripping drama involving some of the most admired names in the diaspora. It only adds to the intrigue that the United States attorney who brought the case, Preet Bharara, is of Indian descent.
The trial has prompted soul-searching in South Asian circles and a debate over whether it has evoked the kind of outrage and embarrassment that many Jews felt over the Bernard L. Madoff scandal. Some fear that a guilty verdict would tarnish the growing number of South Asians on Wall Street. And others feel the case's only cultural significance is as a signal that South Asians have risen high enough in finance -- as in other realms of American life -- to be enmeshed in a multimillion-dollar debacle.
''Anybody who says they're not watching it has got to be lying, because the people involved are certainly the pillars of Indian society in the United States,'' said Prajit K. Dutta, a Columbia University economics professor and a partner at the Aicon Gallery, which specializes in South Asian art. ''I think there will be for a while this cloud hanging over the South Asian community.''
Mr. Rajaratnam, 53, founded and ran the Galleon Group, a giant hedge fund that specialized in technology companies. He is charged with reaping $54 million on illegal stock trades and, if convicted, faces up to 25 years in prison.
Wall Street consists of countless overlapping circles that trade tips and information, so it comes as no surprise that Mr. Rajaratnam's network included many other South Asian immigrants, along with a wide swath from other backgrounds. He met some in South Asian clubs in business school. Others he knew from networking events, social gatherings or charitable events among Indians, Sri Lankans and Pakistanis.
Many in Mr. Rajaratnam's circle were well respected in the financial world, especially Rajat K. Gupta, the former head of the consulting firm McKinsey & Company and a renowned business leader. Mr. Rajaratnam is accused of trading on illegal stock tips received from Mr. Gupta. The two met after Mr. Rajaratnam donated money to the Indian School of Business, a prestigious graduate school in Hyderabad that Mr. Gupta helped start.
The prosecution's evidence includes conversations, recorded by federal investigators, with Rajiv Goel and Anil Kumar, two Indian-born classmates from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Both have pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges and testified against Mr. Rajaratnam.
Betwa Sharma, a reporter with the Press Trust of India, a news agency, covered the trial, but saw it more as a business story than as a South Asian one. ''It's interesting that South Asians are involved in this case, but I don't think it's that big a deal,'' Ms. Sharma said. ''They're part of the system, and they're going to do bad things like other groups that do bad things.''
She said her readers were more interested in how the courts viewed insider-trading and wiretap issues. ''A decade ago, the Indian confidence might have been shaken by things like this,'' she said. ''India has moved past that.''
But Anand Julka, the founder of a Cleveland software company, said he and his former classmates from India had been e-mailing one another every day about developments in the trial, and worrying about its effects.
''For us, it's a very personal thing,'' said Mr. Julka, who has known Mr. Gupta, a key figure in the scandal, for decades. ''When you're a minority community, whatever happens, people tend to project on the entire community, and that's disheartening.''
He predicted that the case ''will affect Indians serving on boards and in high positions because there could be a general mistrust of the Asian Indian community.''
Jagdish N. Bhagwati, an economics professor at Columbia, said his friends had debated and largely dismissed the Madoff parallels. Mr. Madoff's victims included Jewish luminaries like Sandy Koufax and Elie Wiesel, as well as prominent Jewish charitable foundations. The insider trading that Mr. Rajaratnam is accused of is more abstract, Professor Bhagwati said, and any victims harder to identify.
''He's not a Madoff who did something overly dramatic,'' he said. ''He put his foot wrong.''
Others see the trial as evidence of South Asians' ascendance on Wall Street. One financial consultant said that when he walked the financial district in the 1970s, there were so few Indians that he could greet them all by name. ''I was on some trading desks, and I never saw an Indian guy,'' said the consultant, who requested anonymity to avoid offending friends involved in the case. ''Today, you walk onto a trading floor and you smell Indian food.''
Sree Sreenivasan, co-founder of the South Asian Journalists Association, based at Columbia, said that for all its complexity and nuance, the trial had a clear theme.
''From the U.S. attorney to the accused to a whole bunch of witnesses, there are South Asian fingerprints all over this story,'' he said. ''People like me who have asked for years for more attention to our community are suddenly saying we should be careful what we wish for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raj Rajaratnam, a Sri Lanka native and hedge fund chief, is charged in an insider-trading case. Some fear that a guilty verdict would tarnish the growing number of South Asians on Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); WIRETAPPING (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); INSIDER TRADING (76%); VERDICTS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); SCANDALS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (89%); BERNARD MADOFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



582 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Thinking Outside the Canvas

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As art mediums go, painting is both intractably consistent and endlessly malleable, and perhaps never more so than now. While it continues to renew itself in its traditional paint-on-canvas incarnations, there's also a well-established maverick branch that is constantly stretching the medium, extending it into installation art or questioning its status as a precious, high-skill commodity, sometimes by eliminating paint altogether.
One of the pioneers of this stretching and questioning is the German painter Blinky Palermo, whose invigorating first American retrospective currently fills one ring of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden's doughnut-shaped building. The survey teems with spare yet surprisingly spritely works -- many of them previously unexhibited in this country -- that push and prod painting in various directions while still luxuriating in its optical possibilities, especially where color is concerned.
Blinky Palermo, a precocious art star in Europe at the time of his sudden death in 1977 at 33, comes across here as remarkably focused, not the least in his unwavering dedication to abstraction. He painted on canvas, wood and metal; made shaped works that he sometimes paired in eccentric, mismatched diptychs; executed temporary pieces for specific architectural settings; and fashioned severe modernist abstractions from swathes of solid-colored department store fabric. 
The through line is that nearly everything he made seems to imply the phrase ''this is a painting'' simultaneously as a statement and a question, and to leave us juggling our perceptions and preconceptions. The ''Fabric Paintings'' read as simultaneously mildly satiric -- send-ups of Brice Marden's exquisitely wrought monochrome panel paintings -- and optically engaging in their own right, with their subtle color juxtapositions and physical modesty. Sometimes the artist's wit is more overt, as in ''Blue Disk and Staff,'' from 1968, a borderline sculpture with a borderline mythological title, which consists of a tall, thin piece of wood and a circle of wood, both completely wrapped in vivid blue tape. They lean side by side against the wall, suggesting a ''Shield and Spear.''
First seen at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art last fall, the Blinky Palermo show was organized by the Dia Art Foundation in New York City and the Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., under the direction of Lynne Cooke, Dia's veteran curator. This summer it will appear upstate, split between Dia:Beacon in Beacon, N.Y., and Bard.
The Hirshhorn version, then, is the last chance to see the exhibition whole, and it is hard to imagine it looking much better than it does in the museum's serene, gently curving galleries. The show is another sign of the Hirshhorn's quiet rejuvenation under Richard Koshalek, the former director of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles who took over the museum in Washington in 2009. Among other things, Mr. Koshalek has removed the false ceilings in some of the Hirshhorn's galleries, revealing more of the cast concrete vaults that give the building, designed by Gordon Bunshaft, its air of industrial ruggedness.
This kind of adjustment would have pleased Blinky Palermo, some of whose environmental pieces consisted of little more than painting the molding of a space or outlining a wall in a thin band of color. He was born Peter Schwarze in Leipzig, Germany, in 1943, and adopted as an infant, with his twin brother, Michael, by foster parents named Heisterkamp, who moved to Munster in what was then West Germany in 1952.
He grew up enthralled by American culture, especially the Beat Generation and the Abstract Expressionists, and in the early '60s he took the name of the American gangster (and Sonny Liston's manager) whom he was said to resemble. By then, he was enrolled at the Dusseldorf Academy of Art, a student and favorite of Joseph Beuys, the sage of ''social sculpture,'' who later said that Blinky Palermo had ''a far greater porosity'' than any of his other students.
At the Hirshhorn, Blinky Palermo's ''porosity'' comes across as an openness to history, to playful suggestion and to the complexity of visual experience, guided by a stringent sense of economy and strong doubts about painting's traditional materials.
Ms. Cooke lays out the prevailing characterizations of Blinky Palermo's achievement in her lead-off essay: that he was a Conceptual-oriented manipulator of architectural sites not unlike Sol LeWitt, Daniel Buren and Michael Asher; a fellow traveler of American Minimalist painters like Ellsworth Kelly, Agnes Martin, Robert Ryman and Marden (and their predecessors Barnett Newman and Mark Rothko); or part of the tradition of European mysticism stemming from Malevich and Mondrian and even earlier. (This last can seem a bit far-fetched, yet an untitled two-part work dated 1967-72 -- a small canvas brushed in shades of brown and black, paired with a large attenuated wood T -- neatly distills a Caspar David Friedrich cross-in-the-landscape painting.) However distinct these artistic positions may sometimes seem, they are certainly effortlessly encompassed by Blinky Palermo's art.
Many of the earliest works in the show come across as wry, layered tributes to Modernism's illustrious past. ''Composition With 8 Red Rectangles'' of 1964 is a scattering of bright red rectangles that pays homage to the Russian Modernist Malevich by using a title nearly identical to that of his painting ''Supremetism With Eight Red Rectangles'' from 1915. But the references to Malevich's legacy continue: The Russian artist's rectangles are, in the main, elongated, while Blinky Palermo's tend toward squares, which means they also evoke Malevich's paintings of groundbreaking abstractions of single black, white or red squares, while their arrangement conjures a well-known photograph of Malevich's small geometric abstractions dotting the corner of the last futurist exhibition in St. Petersburg in 1915.
In ''Blue Bridge'' of 1964-65, a schematic blue-black bridge stretches edge to edge across a field of bright red; its title collapses the names of the Blue Rider and the Bridge, the two artists' groups that initiated German Expressionism, and hence modern German painting.
In the mid 1960s, as Blinky Palermo moved away from conventional rectangular canvases, the perceptual poetry of his work increased. ''Untitled (Totem)'' is simply a vertical strip of wood, 7 feet by about 2 inches. It is painted orange and punctuated, like a primitive ladder, with five short, horizontal pieces of canvas-wrapped wood, each painted white with a portion of a blue triangle. Suggesting abstracted traffic cones down the center line of a highway, it turns the wall into a landscape.
The idiosyncratic diptych ''Daydream I'' considers the life of abstract forms -- either cushily ensconced on canvas or liberated from it -- with a dark green triangle painted on what is essentially a small, reddish canvas pillow paired with an identically sized dark green triangle made of painted wood. At the end of the decade, the artist devised a do-it-yourself stencil kit that people could buy and use to make their own Blinky Palermo triangles, in blue; it has been used at the Hirshhorn over a doorway.
In the mid-'70s, Blinky Palermo lived and worked primarily in New York; after returning to Germany in 1976, he made a new kind of work: an environmental yet portable multipart piece titled ''To the People of the City of New York.'' Owned by the Dia Art Foundation and often on view at Dia:Beacon, it consists of 40 smallish panel paintings in combinations of red, black and gold -- the colors of the West and East German flags (and now the German one) -- arranged in different groupings. Poised between Germany and America, its mysterious yet lively contrapuntal semaphore leaves you wondering what would have followed, had Blinky Palermo been granted more than a dozen very full years of maturity.
''Blinky Palermo: Retrospective 1964-1977'' runs through May 15 at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Independence Avenue and Seventh Street, SW, Washington; (202) 633-1000, hirshhorn.si.edu.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An art review on Wednesday about ''Blinky Palermo: Retrospective 1964-1977'' at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, which includes a painting, ''Composition With 8 Red Rectangles,'' that pays homage to the Russian Modernist Kazimir Malevich, misspelled part of a similarly titled Malevich work. It is ''Suprematism With Eight Red Rectangles,'' not ''Suprametism.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Blinky Palermo: Retrospective 1964-1977: ''Composition With 8 Red Rectangles'' (1964), part of the show at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS ZIEHE/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK/VG BILD-KUNST, BONN)(C1)
''Blue Disk and Staff'' (1968), at the Blinky Palermo retrospective at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''Untitled (Totem),'' 1964-67. The show will be at two locations in upstate New York this summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIA ART FOUNDATION, NEW YORK
 ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK/VG BILD-KUNST, BONN)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HIRSHHORN MUSEUM & SCULPTURE GARDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (71%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011



583 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Bad Numbers: The continued housing bust means that the economy is still at great risk

 BODY:
If there was any lingering doubt, the latest data confirm that housing is still in a deep and broad recession. In the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price report for 20 large cities, house prices in February fell to a level last seen in April 2009 -- their lowest point in the bust. In a Census Bureau report, new home sales in March remained near their lowest levels since records were first kept in 1963. 
It would be comforting to believe that housing-market distress represents a normal, if painful, correction after a period of excess. But all housing trends -- in prices, sales, construction and foreclosures -- indicate a market that is likely to decline even more, and far more than is needed to erase the artificial gains of the bubble.
High postbubble unemployment coupled with falling home equity will lead to more defaults and foreclosures. The resulting downward pull on prices will probably not be offset by adequate demand because potential buyers will be afraid they are still buying high in a declining market. Rather than a virtuous self-correcting cycle, the housing market is caught in a negative self-reinforcing one.
The best response would be for government to adopt policies to attack joblessness and foreclosures, including public investment in infrastructure and high-technology manufacturing and a renewed emphasis on negotiating new loan terms for homeowners whose homes have declined in value. Unfortunately, Washington is moving in the opposite direction on the mistaken belief that cutting budget deficits and leaving wounded markets to their own devices will somehow spur the economy.
For a while it looked as if struggling homeowners might get some relief soon: Fines on banks responsible for foreclosure abuses could be used to modify troubled mortgages. But that is looking less likely, as state and federal officials differ over whether the banks can afford to pay up. They can.
Without a healthy housing market, there cannot be a healthy economic recovery. The family home is still most Americans' biggest asset, so declining values destroy wealth and curtail spending. Homes are also the source of local-government property tax revenues and the collateral for many small business loans. They hold families and neighborhoods and communities together.
The numbers are getting worse, and that is bad for everyone. The question is how much worse they will need to get before regulators, lawmakers and the Obama administration make an all-out effort to fix the problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CENSUS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



584 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2530 words

HEADLINE: Culture of Complicity Tied To Stricken Nuclear Plant

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI and KEN BELSON

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Given the fierce insularity of Japan's nuclear industry, it was perhaps fitting that an outsider exposed the most serious safety cover-up in the history of Japanese nuclear power. It took place at Fukushima Daiichi, the plant that Japan has been struggling to get under control since last month's earthquake and tsunami.
In 2000, Kei Sugaoka, a Japanese-American nuclear inspector who had done work for General Electric at Daiichi, told Japan's main nuclear regulator about a cracked steam dryer that he believed was being concealed. If exposed, the revelations could have forced the operator, Tokyo Electric Power, to do what utilities least want to do: undertake costly repairs.
What happened next was an example, critics have since said, of the collusive ties that bind the nation's nuclear power companies, regulators and politicians. 
Despite a new law shielding whistle-blowers, the regulator, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, divulged Mr. Sugaoka's identity to Tokyo Electric, effectively blackballing him from the industry. Instead of immediately deploying its own investigators to Daiichi, the agency instructed the company to inspect its own reactors. Regulators allowed the company to keep operating its reactors for the next two years even though, an investigation ultimately revealed, its executives had actually hidden other, far more serious problems, including cracks in the shrouds that cover reactor cores.
Investigators may take months or years to decide to what extent safety problems or weak regulation contributed to the disaster at Daiichi, the worst of its kind since Chernobyl. But as troubles at the plant and fears over radiation continue to rattle the nation, the Japanese are increasingly raising the possibility that a culture of complicity made the plant especially vulnerable to the natural disaster that struck the country on March 11.
Already, many Japanese and Western experts argue that inconsistent, nonexistent or unenforced regulations played a role in the accident -- especially the low seawalls that failed to protect the plant against the tsunami and the decision to place backup diesel generators that power the reactors' cooling system at ground level, which made them highly susceptible to flooding.
A 10-year extension for the oldest of Daiichi's reactors suggests that the regulatory system was allowed to remain lax by politicians, bureaucrats and industry executives single-mindedly focused on expanding nuclear power. Regulators approved the extension beyond the reactor's 40-year statutory limit just weeks before the tsunami despite warnings about its safety and subsequent admissions by Tokyo Electric, often called Tepco, that it had failed to carry out proper inspections of critical equipment.
The mild punishment meted out for past safety infractions has reinforced the belief that nuclear power's main players are more interested in protecting their interests than increasing safety. In 2002, after Tepco's cover-ups finally became public, its chairman and president resigned, only to be given advisory posts at the company. Other executives were demoted, but later took jobs at companies that do business with Tepco. Still others received tiny pay cuts for their role in the cover-up. And after a temporary shutdown and repairs at Daiichi, Tepco resumed operating the plant.
In a telephone interview from his home in the San Francisco Bay Area, Mr. Sugaoka said, ''I support nuclear power, but I want to see complete transparency.''
Revolving Door
In Japan, the web of connections between the nuclear industry and government officials is now popularly referred to as the ''nuclear power village.'' The expression connotes the nontransparent, collusive interests that underlie the establishment's push to increase nuclear power despite the discovery of active fault lines under plants, new projections about the size of tsunamis and a long history of cover-ups of safety problems.
Just as in any Japanese village, the like-minded -- nuclear industry officials, bureaucrats, politicians and scientists -- have prospered by rewarding one another with construction projects, lucrative positions, and political, financial and regulatory support. The few openly skeptical of nuclear power's safety become village outcasts, losing out on promotions and backing.
Until recently, it had been considered political suicide to even discuss the need to reform an industry that appeared less concerned with safety than maximizing profits, said Kusuo Oshima, one of the few governing Democratic Party lawmakers who have long been critical of the nuclear industry.
''Everyone considered that a taboo, so nobody wanted to touch it,'' said Mr. Oshima, adding that he could speak freely because he was backed not by a nuclear-affiliated group, but by Rissho Kosei-Kai, one of Japan's largest lay Buddhist movements.
''It's all about money,'' he added.
At Fukushima Daiichi and elsewhere, critics say that safety problems have stemmed from a common source: a watchdog that is a member of the nuclear power village.
Though it is charged with oversight, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency is part of the Ministry of Trade, Economy and Industry, the bureaucracy charged with promoting the use of nuclear power. Over a long career, officials are often transferred repeatedly between oversight and promotion divisions, blurring the lines between supporting and policing the industry.
Influential bureaucrats tend to side with the nuclear industry -- and the promotion of it -- because of a practice known as amakudari, or descent from heaven. Widely practiced in Japan's main industries, amakudari allows senior bureaucrats, usually in their 50s, to land cushy jobs at the companies they once oversaw.
According to data compiled by the Communist Party, one of the fiercest critics of the nuclear industry, generations of high-ranking officials from the ministry have landed senior positions at the country's 10 utilities since Japan's first nuclear plants were designed in the 1960s. In a pattern reflective of the clear hierarchy in Japan's ministries and utilities, the ministry's most senior officials went to work at Tepco, while those of lower ranks ended up at smaller utilities.
At Tepco, from 1959 to 2010, four former top-ranking ministry officials successively served as vice presidents at the company. When one retired from Tepco, his junior from the ministry took over what is known as the ministry's ''reserved seat'' of vice president at the company.
In the most recent case, a director general of the ministry's Natural Resources and Energy Agency, Toru Ishida, left the ministry last year and joined Tepco early this year as an adviser. Prime Minister Naoto Kan's government initially defended the appointment but reversed itself after the Communist Party publicized the extent of amakudari appointments since the 1960s. Mr. Ishida, who would have normally become vice president later this year, was forced to step down last week.
Kazuhiro Hasegawa, a spokesman for Tepco, denied that it was an amakudari appointment, adding that the company simply hired the best people. The company declined to make an executive available for an interview about the company's links with bureaucrats and politicians.
Lower-ranking officials also end up at similar, though less lucrative, jobs at the countless companies affiliated with the power companies, as well as advisory bodies with close links to the ministry and utilities.
''Because of this collusion, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency ends up becoming a member of the community seeking profits from nuclear power,'' said Hidekatsu Yoshii, a Communist Party lawmaker and nuclear engineer who has long followed the nuclear industry.
Collusion flows the other way, too, in a lesser-known practice known as amaagari, or ascent to heaven. Because the regulatory panels meant to backstop the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency lack full-time technical experts, they depend largely on retired or active engineers from nuclear-industry-related companies. They are unlikely to criticize the companies that employ them.
Even academics who challenge the industry may find themselves shunned. As Japan has begun looking into the problems surrounding collusion since March 11, the Japanese news media has highlighted the discrimination faced by academics who raised questions about the safety of nuclear power.
In Japan, research into nuclear power is financed by the government or nuclear power-related companies. Unable to conduct research, skeptics, especially a group of six at Kyoto University, languished for decades as assistant professors.
One, Hiroaki Koide, a nuclear reactor expert who has held a position equivalent to assistant professor for 37 years at Kyoto University, said he applied unsuccessfully for research funds when he was younger.
''They're not handed out to outsiders like me,'' he said.
In the United States, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the main regulatory agency for the nuclear power industry, can choose from a pool of engineers unaffiliated with a utility or manufacturer, including those who learned their trade in the Navy or at research institutes like Brookhaven or Oak Ridge.
As a result, the N.R.C. does not rely on the industry itself to develop proposals and rules. In Japan, however, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency lacks the technical firepower to draw up comprehensive regulations and tends to turn to industry experts to provide that expertise.
The agency ''has the legal authority to regulate the utilities, but significantly lacks the technical capability to independently evaluate what they propose,'' said Satoshi Sato, who has nearly 30 years' experience working in the nuclear industry in the United States and Japan. ''Naturally, the regulators tend to avoid any risk by proposing their own ideas.''
Inspections are not rigorous, Mr. Sato said, because agency inspectors are not trained thoroughly, and safety standards are watered down to meet levels that the utilities can financially bear, he and others said.
Dominion in Parliament
The political establishment, one of the great beneficiaries of the nuclear power industry, has shown little interest in bolstering safety. In fact, critics say, lax oversight serves their interests. Costly renovations get in the way of building new plants, which create construction projects, jobs and generous subsidies to host communities.
The Liberal Democrats, who governed Japan nearly without interruption from 1955 to 2009, have close ties to the management of nuclear-industry-related companies. The Democratic Party, which has governed since, is backed by labor unions, which, in Japan, tend to be close to management.
''Both parties are captive to the power companies, and they follow what the power companies want to do,'' said Taro Kono, a Liberal Democratic lawmaker with a reputation as a reformer.
Under Japan's electoral system, in which a significant percentage of legislators is chosen indirectly, parties reward institutional backers with seats in Parliament. In 1998, the Liberal Democrats selected Tokio Kano, a former vice president at Tepco, for one of these seats.
Backed by Keidanren -- Japan's biggest business lobby, of which Tepco is one of the biggest members -- Mr. Kano served two six-year terms in the upper house of Parliament until 2010. In a move that has raised eyebrows even in a world of cross-fertilizing interests, he has returned to Tepco as an adviser.
While in office, Mr. Kano led a campaign to reshape the country's energy policy by putting nuclear power at its center. He held leadership positions on energy committees that recommended policies long sought by the nuclear industry, like the use of a fuel called mixed oxide, or mox, in fast-breeder reactors. He also opposed the deregulation of the power industry.
In 1999, Mr. Kano even complained in Parliament that nuclear power was portrayed unfairly in government-endorsed school textbooks. ''Everything written about solar energy is positive, but only negative things are written about nuclear power,'' he said, according to parliamentary records.
Most important, in 2003, on the strength of Mr. Kano's leadership, Japan adopted a national basic energy plan calling for the growth of nuclear energy as a way to achieve greater energy independence and to reduce Japan's emission of greenhouses gases. The plan and subsequent versions mentioned only in broad terms the importance of safety at the nation's nuclear plants despite the 2002 disclosure of cover-ups at Fukushima Daiichi and a 1999 accident at a plant northeast of Tokyo in which high levels of radiation were spewed into the air.
Mr. Kano's legislative activities drew criticism even from some members of his own party.
''He rewrote everything in favor of the power companies,'' Mr. Kono said.
In an interview at a Tepco office here, accompanied by a company spokesman, Mr. Kano said he had served in Parliament out of ''conviction.''
''It's disgusting to be thought of as a politician who was a company errand boy just because I was supported by a power company and the business community,'' Mr. Kano said.
Taking on a Leviathan
So entrenched is the nuclear power village that it easily survived postwar Japan's biggest political shake-up. When the Democratic Party came to power 20 months ago, it pledged to reform the nuclear industry and strengthen the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency.
Hearings on reforming the agency were held starting in 2009 at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, said Yosuke Kondo, a lawmaker of the governing Democratic Party who was the ministry's deputy minister at the time. But they fizzled out, he said, after a new minister was appointed in September 2010.
The new minister, Akihiro Ohata, was a former engineer at Hitachi's nuclear division and one of the most influential advocates of nuclear power in the Democratic Party. He had successfully lobbied his party to change its official designation of nuclear power from a ''transitional'' to ''main'' source of energy. An aide to Mr. Ohata, who became Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in January, said he was unavailable for an interview.
As moves to strengthen oversight were put on the back burner, the new government dusted off the energy plan designed by Mr. Kano, the Tepco adviser and former lawmaker. It added fresh details, including plans to build 14 new reactors by 2030 and raise the share of electricity generated by nuclear power and minor sources of clean energy to 70 percent from 34 percent.
What is more, Japan would make the sale of nuclear reactors and technology the central component of a long-term export strategy to energy-hungry developing nations. A new company, the International Nuclear Energy Development of Japan, was created to do just that. Its shareholders were made up of the country's nine main nuclear plant operators, three manufacturers of nuclear reactors and the government itself.
The nuclear power village was going global with the new company. The government took a 10 percent stake. Tepco took the biggest, with 20 percent, and one of its top executives was named the company's first president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Masataka Shimizu, center, president of Tokyo Electric Power, and company officials knelt to ask forgiveness of residents in a shelter in Koriyama.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO, VIA REUTERS)
Ichiro Takekuro, from left, an official with the International Nuclear Energy Development of Japan
Taro Kono, a Liberal Democratic lawmaker
and Akihiro Ohata, the minister for economy, trade and industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS
KIYOSHI OTA/REUTERS
HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Kei Sugaoka, a nuclear inspector, told regulators of problems at the Fukushima Daiichi plant 11 years ago. An investigation ultimately revealed that executives at Tokyo Electric Power had engaged in a cover-up. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); APPROVALS (68%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



585 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE GUANTaNAMO FILES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Detainees' Lawyers Can't Click on Leaked Files

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Anyone surfing the Internet this week is free to read leaked documents about the prisoners held by the American military at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to print them out or e-mail them to friends.
Except, that is, for the lawyers who represent the prisoners.
On Monday, hours after WikiLeaks, The New York Times and other news organizations began publishing the documents online, the Justice Department informed Guantanamo defense lawyers that the documents remained legally classified even after they were made public. 
Because the lawyers have security clearances, they are obligated to treat the readily available files ''in accordance with all relevant security precautions and safeguards'' -- handling them, for example, only in secure government facilities, said the notice from the department's Court Security Office.
It is only the latest absurdist challenge posed by the flood of classified material obtained by WikiLeaks over the past year: field reports from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq; State Department cables; and now the military's risk assessments of 700 past or present Guantanamo prisoners.
Joseph Margulies, a Northwestern law professor who represents Abu Zubaydah, the detainee accused of being a terrorist facilitator who was waterboarded by the Central Intelligence Agency, said he could not comment on the newly disclosed assessment of his client, which is posted on The Times Web site.
''Everyone else can talk about it,'' Mr. Margulies said. ''I can't talk about it.''
The ballooning category of public-but-classified documents has befuddled officials and led to a series of unusual pronouncements from government agencies and those who work with them.
In December, Columbia University warned international relations students that commenting on the documents disclosed by WikiLeaks online or linking to them might endanger their chances of getting a government job. The same month, the United States Agency for International Development told workers that viewing the documents on an unclassified computer at work or home could violate security rules that govern their employment. In February, an Air Force unit cautioned that employees and even their family members could be prosecuted under the Espionage Act for looking at the WikiLeaks documents at home.
Some of those warnings were quickly modified or withdrawn after attracting public ridicule. But the general principle that the leaked files remain classified remains in effect, with varying consequences.
Some foreigners applying for asylum in the United States have attached diplomatic cables printed from the Internet that describe repression in their native countries -- requiring the Department of Homeland Security to store their applications in special safes and to apply cumbersome security rules.
State Department employees have confided that they read leaked cables on newspaper Web sites at home rather than risk trouble by viewing them at work. A Times reporter who appeared with a State Department official on a recent panel was advised not to show leaked cables as slides -- the official was prohibited from looking at them.
But the prohibition for Guantanamo lawyers has serious implications, said Mr. Margulies, who wrote a book on Guantanamo and has represented five prisoners there. Decisions about who gets released have been influenced by politics and public pressure as much as by legal standards, he said.
''It's important to be able to use these documents to shape and inform the discussion in the public square,'' he said. If a leaked risk assessment contains clearly disproved accusations about a prisoner, a lawyer should be able to publicly refute it, he said.
On Tuesday, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. told reporters that he considered the dissemination of the classified Guantanamo documents, prepared under the Bush administration, to be ''deplorable.'' And he said the Obama administration would not make public, even with redactions, its own assessments of the 240 prisoners who were still at Guantanamo when it took office in 2009.
The new files, Mr. Holder said, ''involve a whole variety of information gleaned from a wide assortment of sources, some of which are classified.''
''That being the case,'' he continued, ''I would be concerned about putting out information that was incomplete.''
Meanwhile, Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said the department was trying to answer questions posed by lawyers for Guantanamo prisoners about the restrictions on using the leaked documents.
''We're working through these issues right now,'' Mr. Boyd said. ''We simply want to ensure that any information released by WikiLeaks is handled properly.''
At the Congressional Research Service, the branch of the Library of Congress that advises senators and representatives, employees were advised in December that they could not quote the classified documents obtained by WikiLeaks in their reports. Some analysts with the service grumbled privately that members of Congress were asking about diplomatic cables, but they were not permitted to quote the cables in reply.
Janine D'Addario, a spokeswoman for the research service, said she could not say whether the restrictions had hampered its work because its research was supposed to be confidential. But Steven Aftergood, director of the Project on Government Secrecy at the Federation of American Scientists, said there was no question that the researchers were handicapped as they reported on the wars, foreign relations or Guantanamo.
''It's the definition of self-defeating,'' Mr. Aftergood said. ''It doesn't serve the interest of Congress or the public.''
Mr. Aftergood said the problems had resulted from the unprecedented scale of the WikiLeaks disclosures, which the rules did not anticipate. Tens of thousands of military documents have been disclosed, and about 8,000, so far, of a cache of 250,000 diplomatic cables.
''The surge of classified documents into the public domain has tied the system up in knots,'' he said. The rush to impose patently pointless restrictions ''does demonstrate a disappointing lack of agility in the security system,'' Mr. Aftergood said.
But Peter J. Spiro, who teaches international law at Temple University, said the government's dilemma was real. The law is clear: only a document that is properly declassified loses its protections. And if the government ruled that classified documents disclosed to the public were automatically declassified, that would simply create a more powerful incentive for disgruntled government employees to leak.
''The trouble is, it makes the government look totally ham-handed,'' Mr. Spiro said. ''There are documents on the front page that everyone's talking about, and it looks ridiculous to pretend they're not there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. on Tuesday denounced the leaking of Guantanamo files. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WEB SITES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



586 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Broad Rally Lifts Shares To a Nearly 3-Year High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose to their highest levels in nearly three years on Monday, helped by signs that earnings are rising for American companies and consumers are feeling more confident about the economy. 
Stock indexes have more than doubled since hitting a 12-year low in March 2009. The fastest bull market since the 1950s has now erased most of the losses stemming from the financial crisis.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index reached its highest level since June 2008. It gained 11.99 points, or 0.90 percent, to 1,347.24. It remains 16 percent below the record high of 1,565 it reached in October 2007.
The Dow Jones industrial average also reached a high for the year, rising 115.49 points, or 0.93 percent, to 12,595.37. The Nasdaq composite index rose 21.66 points, or 0.77 percent, to 2,847.54.
Better-than-expected earnings reports from a variety of companies, including airlines and office products manufacturers, helped drive a broad rally that included all 10 company groups that make up the S.& P. index. Industrial companies gained nearly 2 percent, the most of any group.
Shares of Delta Air Lines rose 11 percent after it reported a loss that was smaller than investors had expected.
Cummins, the engine maker, gained 8 percent after raising its earnings forecast for the year because of strong demand. United Parcel Service rose 1 percent after raising its own earnings estimate for the year.
''What we're seeing now is a positive reinforcement of the fact that demand is rising around the world,'' said Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Financial. That is occurring although some companies say rising costs are hurting their profits, Mr. Krosby said.
Ford shares rose 0.7 percent after the automaker reported its best first-quarter earnings since 1998. Ford beat Wall Street's earnings estimates with stronger sales of new vehicles.
3M, which makes Post-it notes and Scotch tape, rose 1.9 percent after it raised its full-year earnings expectations. The company said quarterly profit rose 16 percent compared with a year ago, beating analysts' estimates.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 16/32, to 102 21/32, and the yield fell to 3.31 percent from 3.36 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (54%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (53%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (56%); UPS (NYSE) (54%); PRU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (54%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (54%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (53%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



587 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Council Member Seeks to Make Buying Fake Designer Brands a Crime

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER; Javier C. Hernandez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Cabrina Whitam said she was willing to follow the trail of fake Chanel and Burberry handbags into whatever Chinatown backrooms it might lead her.
''I come down here, I will continue coming down here, and I will follow the Chinese people wherever they take me,'' Ms. Whitam, who lives in New Jersey, said Tuesday afternoon as she stood amid the purse and sunglass vendors on Canal Street. ''I don't believe in child labor and I don't believe in supporting terrorists, but if I want to buy a knockoff, that's my business.''
But Councilwoman Margaret S. Chin, whose district includes Chinatown, plans to introduce legislation on Thursday that would make it the city's business as well. Ms. Chin's proposed bill would make it a misdemeanor to buy fake designer merchandise. If the bill passes, violators like Ms. Whitam could face a $1,000 fine, a year in jail, or both. 
''I think it stinks,'' said Ms. Whitam, who said she came to Chinatown four or five times a year.
Her best find? ''Six years ago, I bought a 'Rolex' watch, and it still works,'' she said. ''Never even changed the battery.''
Ms. Chin said her proposal was meant to stop the demand for imitation designer wares for which her district has become known.
''In Chinatown, people can come and shop for some really authentic goods, and we want them to really experience the neighborhood, not just come down and buy these fake knockoffs,'' she said. ''We want to be known for our museums, our shops, our restaurants.''
Ms. Chin's proposal was reported on Tuesday in The New York Post.
People who want a designer handbag, Ms. Chin added, should consider buying the real thing.
''What happened to the traditional value of saving up for something you really want that's valuable?'' she asked. ''If you really like it, save money to buy the real thing.''
Many of those interviewed in Chinatown on Tuesday, however, insisted that not everyone can afford the real thing, and that they should have the option of spending less for a purse that, at first glance, looks nearly indistinguishable from a bag with a designer label.
''I think people should have the option to buy what's in their budget,'' said Sherise Jackson, 27, who lives in New Jersey. ''I like fashion for an affordable price, and not everyone can afford $300 or $500 for a bag.''
She fingered a scarf with Burberry's trademarked tartan check pattern, and asked the price. ''Ten dollars,'' came the reply.
Rick and Bev Houston, who were visiting from Toronto, poked their heads into a Canal Street store, asking about an imitation Michael Kors watch for their daughter.
''It's kind of a Catch-22,'' Mr. Houston said, gesturing to the vendors around him as he explained his view of Ms. Chin's proposal. ''It's illegal because it puts people out of work for the real thing, but how many people will be out of business if this passes?''
Ms. Chin's office said the counterfeit trademark industry cost the city $1 billion a year in tax revenue.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, when asked about the sale of fake designer merchandise, said it was something that he would take ''very seriously.''
''Protecting the trademark of manufacturers is in the city's interest and the country's interest, otherwise people wouldn't come here and sell things and create things,'' Mr. Bloomberg told reporters during an appearance in the Bronx. ''Whether this is the right way to go about it, I don't know.''
He said it would mean another law that the police would have to enforce. ''There's a limited number of things we can do,'' he said. ''How practical it is, I don't know.''
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, did not express an opinion about the proposal but said it would be considered once it was formally introduced.
Chinatown shopkeepers were skittish about talking to a reporter -- more were eager to try to sell a bargain ''Louis Vuitton'' for just $35 -- but a man who identified himself only as Simon said he worried that the bill would hurt the district's tourism trade.
''They're coming here for this,'' he said, pointing to the seemingly endless line of storefronts filled with handbags. ''The main attraction is this, here. A lot of people will lose jobs.''
Meanwhile, just down the street, Dany Santiago, 28, of the Bronx, and some friends were busy scanning for deals.
''If the economy is going down, why stop people from spending money?'' asked Ms. Santiago, who said she disagreed with the bill's premise.
Her friend Rodney Reid, 30, called for an informed consumer and a laissez-faire approach.
''If they know what they're buying and they go into a store and realize it's not an original Gucci or Prada,'' he said, ''they should have a right to buy what they want.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Councilwoman Margaret S. Chin said Tuesday that she wanted to stop demand for imitation designer goods. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); RETAILERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); MISDEMEANORS (73%); CHILD LABOR (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%); TERRORISM (55%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



588 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: The Milk of Resistance

BYLINE: By KHALED MATTAWA. 
Khaled Mattawa, an associate professor of creative writing at the University of Michigan, is the author, most recently, of the poetry collection ''Tocqueville.''

 BODY:
Ann Arbor, Mich.
THOUGH Libyan government forces have killed and wounded hundreds of civilians in their siege of the western city of Misurata, one of the most telling examples of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's wrath has been the bombing and destruction of a dairy plant there.
In just a few years the Naseem dairy plant, owned by a local family, had achieved what Colonel Qaddafi's regime could never do: provide Libyans with a decent glass of milk. 
I was 5 when Colonel Qaddafi came to power, in 1969. One of my earliest pre-Qaddafi memories is of a small Peugeot maneuvering through a crowd of children playing on our street in Benghazi. A tall man would step out, quickly open the trunk and dash up to each house before getting back in the car. If I blinked, I could imagine that the sweating jug of fresh cold milk on our doorstep had appeared there all by itself.
Soon after Colonel Qaddafi's coup, though, milk ceased to come magically to our door. The dairy farm apparently belonged to ''an enemy of the revolution,'' and was nationalized. I remember driving around with my father, looking for a place to buy milk. We found one at last, but its door was closed, and empty five-liter plastic jugs were lined up outside, placed there by milk-starved residents. This was in the early 1970s, when Libya was producing about two million barrels of oil per day, one for every Libyan.
In 1977 I went on a school field trip to visit the Qaddafi regime's solution to the milk problem. The new government-run Amal dairy plant had huge gleaming steel tanks placed in a large hall, and a sour smell in the air.
We soon learned that the milk was of terrible quality, watery and slightly bitter. Libyans made do with evaporated and condensed milk until the markets opened in the late 1990s, and high-quality shelf-stable milk could be imported from Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
I left Libya in 1979 to go to school in the United States, and returned for the first time in 2000. Grocery shopping after my long exile and wishing to support a local product, I reached for a six-pack of yogurt from Amal. The containers all had bananas on them. Holding the pack, I asked the storeowner if he had Amal plain yogurt instead of banana.
''What banana?'' he said.
''This says it's got banana flavor. I want plain.''
''No banana flavor!''
''But it says so right here on the pack.''
''How many times do I have to tell you? No bananas. It's plain. Plain.''
I did not believe him and left without any yogurt. At home I told my family about the incident. At first they too were confused. Then they burst out laughing.
Amal had never produced anything as fancy as flavored yogurt, they told me. The fruit on the label was such a bad old joke, they'd ceased to even notice it. They didn't laugh for long; I'd reminded them, without meaning to, of how awful things had become.
In the early 2000s, the Naseem plant in Misurata tried to change that. At the time, Colonel Qaddafi had begun to move Libya toward a market economy, but most businesses were handed over to his sons and acolytes, who weren't under much pressure to succeed. As a family business, Naseem was different, and its milk was good. In Benghazi and all across Libya we started to buy Naseem milk, then plain and flavored yogurt, eventually even ice cream.
No one in Libya was surprised that such commercial success took place in Misurata. It is a hard-working town; people there rise with the dawn. More recently, to block Colonel Qaddafi's tanks, Misurata's fighters have filled shipping containers with sand and parked them across the city's main boulevard. It is also no surprise that Colonel Qaddafi went after that city, and its factory, as a symbol of resistance, and a sign of how he has failed as a leader.
Benghazi is Libya's heart, the seat of its initiative and spirit. Tripoli, more pragmatic, is its brain. But Misurata, which happens to be my family's ancestral town, is the country's hands.
A torturer par excellence, Colonel Qaddafi has brought many a good soul to submission by breaking their fingers. But this time, he didn't succeed. We Libyans have no doubt that the Naseem plant, burned to cinders, will soon be rebuilt. And when this war is over, the people of Misurata will be busy doing what nation building is all about -- with a glass of milk in the morning to get the citizenry on its way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); MILK (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); COUPS (78%); CHILDREN (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (72%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



589 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
TEXT MESSAGES DELIVER DEATH THREATS IN IRAQ
Digital media have amplified the young voices of democracy ringing around the Middle East, but the flip side in Baghdad is that the authorities and insurgents alike are also adept at using technology, particularly cellphones, largely unavailable here before the 2003 American invasion, as part of their arsenals of intimidation. PAGE A4
National 
BUSH LEADS EDUCATION PUSH
WITH 'FLORIDA FORMULA'
New policies governing the way schools operate have many champions, but a little-known common denominator behind sweeping measures in nearly a dozen states is Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, who has re-emerged as an adviser to governors and lawmakers, mostly Republicans, who are interested in imitating what he calls ''the Florida formula'' for education. PAGE A17
ENTWINED IN SEATTLE'S FABRIC
Paul Allen and Bill Gates have different recollections of the founding of Microsoft . But in Seattle, the city that has been their stage for three decades, they remain in constant, indirect contact. Their latest endeavors, legacies of the vast fortunes they made writing computer code, crisscross each other almost block by block. PAGE A15
PUSH TO STEM DEPORTATIONS
Democratic lawmakers and Latino and immigrant groups are increasing pressure President Obama to offer protection from deportation to illegal immigrant college students who might have been eligible for legal status under a bill in Congress known as the Dream Act. PAGE A16
New York
TRADING TRIAL CAPTIVATES
CITY'S SOUTH ASIANS
The trial of Raj Rajaratnam, who is accused of trading on illegal stock tips, has prompted soul-searching in South Asian circles. Some fear that a guilty verdict would tarnish the growing number of South Asians on Wall Street. Others feel that the case's only cultural significance is as a signal that South Asians have risen high enough in finance to be enmeshed in a multimillion-dollar debacle. PAGE A20
Business
SHIPPERS MAY RAISE
FUEL SURCHARGES
With diesel prices near their highest levels since 2008, the impact has started to appear in the first-quarter results of companies like Union Pacific railroad and the Arkansas Best Corporation, which has a trucking subsidiary. Some shippers said they expected to raise fuel surcharges. The timing, some economists say, could not be worse. PAGE B1
DELETING DIGITAL MEMORIES
Friendster, which started up in 2003, has long been eclipsed by younger, more nimble rivals, turning into something of a ghost town. But when its current owners told users of plans to change its business strategy -- and to wipe out the site's trove of digital memories, including ancient dorm-room photos, late-night blog entries and heartfelt friend endorsements, it set off a wave of nostalgia among Friendster members, even though most had stopped visiting the site long ago. PAGE B1
Sports
IN APPEAL BY N.F.L.,
ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE
What will happen next as the legal battle at the center of the N.F.L.'s labor stalemate heads to the the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is anyone's guess, but there are plenty of people willing to guess -- or to explain why guessing is foolhardy. PAGE B11
ON LUCK AND PITCHING
Phil Hughes's injury problems -- and the diminished version of Joba Chamberlain since his 2008 rotator-cuff injury in Texas -- highlight the difficulty of cultivating young pitching, and the fortune the Yankees enjoy in not having to rely on it. Tyler Kepner, On Baseball. PAge B11
Obituaries
LYNN CHANDNOIS, 86
A star for the Pittsburgh Steelers, his average on kickoff returns was second only to that of Gale Sayers in N.F.L. history. PAGE B15
Arts
EVERY THEATRICAL HOUSE
SEEMS TO HAVE A DOCTOR
Once a discreet Broadway tradition, the use of script doctors and show doctors, usually hired to rework the story or the overall production, has evolved into a standard insurance policy -- accompanied in the Broadway way, with intrigue and gossip. PAGE C1
COVERING A MURDER TRIAL
Dwight Garner writes that Janet Malcolm's absorbing new book, ''Iphigenia in Forest Hills,'' covers a murder trial in Queens's Bukharan-Jewish community, and is squeamish about the way courts strip people of their secrets. PAGE C1
Dining
STAR CHEF, FACING A SUIT,
FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY
Geoffreyakarian has made all the right moves for a celebrity chef. But his latest step doesn't follow the script. He has filed for personal bankruptcy, a move that could help fend off more than $1 million in legal claims from 152 former cooks at Country in the Carlton Hotel, along with a former partner in the restaurant. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Maureen Dowd PAGE A23
Mark Bittman PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (79%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); DEPORTATION (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); FUEL MARKETS (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (65%); VERDICTS (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); DIESEL FUEL (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: ARKANSAS BEST CORP (63%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (52%)

TICKER: ABFS (NASDAQ) (63%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (63%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (63%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (56%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); PAUL ALLEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



590 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Shippers May Raise Fuel Fees

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
These should be good times for railroads and trucking companies. After all, an improving economy means that more goods and commodities need to be delivered to the nation's ports and department stores.
But rising fuel prices have taken a toll on their business.
With diesel prices near their highest levels since 2008, the impact has started to appear in the first-quarter results of companies like Union Pacific railroad and the Arkansas Best Corporation, which has a trucking subsidiary. Some shippers said they expected to raise fuel surcharges.
The timing, some economists say, could not be worse. Consumers are already paying steeper prices at the gas pump and may see prices climb in stores if diesel prices remain high. American manufacturers, meanwhile, are struggling to get back on their feet.
''The manufacturing sector is hit disproportionately hard by higher diesel prices,'' said Donald A. Norman, economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a public policy and economics research organization in Arlington, Va. ''Simply to move all this stuff around, it is really hard to affect any cost savings. You have little in the way of alternatives.'' 
Brandon Gale, the president of Retail Shipping Associates, said it was only a matter of time before the high fuel prices affected consumers. ''It is a very straight-line relationship,'' he said. ''When you see fuel at the pump going up, it is going to go up at the package, too.''
Crude oil prices started going up early this year as turmoil spread through the oil-producing regions of the Middle East and North Africa. Increased global demand for fuel has added to the pressure on prices.
On Monday, the average price for a gallon of highway diesel was $4.09, according to the Energy Information Administration, which posts fuel prices every week based on a survey of outlets around the country. The current averages are in the highest range since 2008, when prices peaked at $4.76 on July 14, and more than a dollar higher than in 2010.
The Energy Information Administration price functions as a reference point for trucking companies negotiating fuel surcharges with shippers. Railroads can use a less expensive type of diesel that does not reflect the highway taxes.
While some railroad companies say their businesses can benefit from higher diesel prices because shippers may migrate to trains from trucks, they are still paying millions of dollars more for fuel.
Last week, Union Pacific said in its report on the first quarter that it paid average diesel fuel prices of $2.88 a gallon, up 33 percent from the same period in 2010. The higher costs -- the company said it paid about $200 million more for fuel in the quarter than the same period in 2010 -- sliced 8 cents off the company's $1.29 in earnings per share. Even so, the earnings were the company's highest for any first quarter in its history.
The company has already imposed fuel surcharges to recoup some of its higher costs. And while it did not say directly whether it would raise its surcharges, Tom Lange, a company spokesman, said, ''It is how we are addressing it.''
Another railroad company, the CSX Corporation, said in its first-quarter results report this month that higher fuel costs added $119 million to expenses in the year, bringing fuel costs to $402 million.
Norfolk Southern reports its quarterly results on Wednesday.
Railroad companies can benefit in some ways from higher oil prices. When oil prices rise, so do the prices of other commodities, a signal of brisk demand for what is a large component of train freight.
''You can't look at rising oil prices in a vacuum,'' said H. Peter Nesvold, a managing director for research at Jefferies & Company. ''It actually helps the volumes at the rails.''
In addition, some cargo usually moves to trains when diesel prices are high because they are more fuel efficient than trucks, industry officials said.
''Fuel costs are an important factor for us; it costs us more money to do what we do,'' said John T. Gray, a senior vice president for the Association of American Railroads. ''Fortunately, it costs our competitors typically more money than it costs us.''
He added, ''If what we saw in 2008 happens now, there will probably be some customers that will seek out rail service that have not in the past.''
Still, there is less flexibility in train scheduling, and a track only goes so far -- it cannot take freight directly to the doorstep. Last month, William P. Graves, the head of the American Trucking Associations, told the House Committee on Natural Resources that many trucking companies could not easily recover the full cost of the rapid rise of diesel. Bob Costello, chief economist for the association, said the trucking industry was expected to spend $142 billion for diesel this year, quadruple the $35 billion cost last year.
''For many trucking companies now, fuel has caught or even surpassed labor as their No. 1 expense,'' Mr. Costello said. ''This is hurting fleets that already have significantly lower profit margins than a railroad does.''
The Arkansas Best Corporation this week posted a quarterly loss, partly because of higher fuel costs, and said it was taking steps to correct insufficient fuel surcharges.
Many times, a sudden and significant rise in fuel prices, like the one that occurred at the end of February, creates a lag on earnings because the fuel surcharges are already fixed in contracts and cannot keep pace.
''You are paying at the pump sooner than what we are able to recover from our customers,'' said John J. Steele, the executive vice president for the trucking company Werner Enterprises.
''But the biggest issue is the effect it has on the consumer,'' he said. ''It is taking away dollars that they can spend and that translates into a drag on the economy, and that means there are less loads in our system. Retailers are about half of our customer base.''
Industry officials say both trucking and railroad companies are trying to conserve fuel rather than pass along all the higher costs. Mr. Steele said the company was reducing truck idling. Union Pacific said it was testing an aerodynamic shipping container.
The question now is how long fuel prices will stay elevated and how much will be passed on to consumers, given the tenuous nature of the economic recovery.
''Any time there is a change in fuel prices, eventually that will sink through to the shipper and perhaps to the consumer,'' said Pierce Myers, the executive vice president for the Parcel Shippers Association.
''But it may or may not get through,'' he said. ''You don't know where the squeeze is going to come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The impact of high diesel prices has started to appear in the results of companies like Union Pacific railroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHART: High Cost of Fuel: As the price of diesel fuel has risen sharply in the last few months, shippers have struggled to make up the extra cost. (Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TRUCKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); TRAINS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (63%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (60%)

COMPANY: ARKANSAS BEST CORP (72%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (57%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: ABFS (NASDAQ) (72%); UNP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (72%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (72%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



591 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Justices' Debate Turns To Privacy For Doctors

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A somewhat esoteric Supreme Court case on Tuesday about data mining by drug companies turned into a debate over a fundamental First Amendment principle that has much engaged the justices lately: What role may the government play in regulating the marketplace of ideas?
In assessing the Vermont law at issue Tuesday (Sorrell v. IMS Health, No. 10-779), which bars some but not all uses of prescription drug data, several justices indicated that they viewed government efforts to alter the mix of available information as constitutionally problematic. 
That principle animated last term's decision in Citizens United, which struck down part of a federal law regulating speech about politics by corporations and unions. The tenor of Tuesday's arguments suggested that a majority of the justices had similar concerns about the Vermont law, which regulates the use of information collected about doctors by records kept by pharmacies.
The case is not about patients' privacy rights, as individual information about them is meant to be stripped from the data. Rather, the Vermont law restricts tailored efforts to market drugs to doctors aided by databases showing what medicines they have been prescribing.
The state law forbids the sale of prescription data to market drugs and bars drug companies from using the data to market drugs, unless the prescribing doctor consents. But other uses of the same data are allowed, including ones by law enforcement, insurance companies and journalists. And drug companies remain free to market their drugs in a more indiscriminate fashion, without knowing the prescribing habits of individual doctors.
Bridget C. Asay, an assistant state attorney general defending the law, tried to frame it as one meant to protect doctors' privacy. But the argument gained little traction, and several justices noted that the law permitted uses that seemed to invade doctors' privacy as much as the forbidden ones, and in any event doctors remain free to decline to meet with marketers.
Some of the justices also seemed concerned about what the law meant to achieve, as reflected in legislative findings justifying the law.
There is, the state Legislature said, a ''massive imbalance in information presented to doctors'' and ''the marketplace for ideas on medicine safety and effectiveness is frequently one-sided.'' The point of the law, several justices suggested, was therefore to protect doctors from hearing from drug marketers that might suggest more expensive drugs even as the state pushed cheaper generic drugs.
''You want to lower your health care costs, not by direct regulation, but by restricting the flow of information to the doctors,'' Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. told Ms. Asay. ''To use a pejorative word,'' he went on, the state is ''censoring what they can hear to make sure they don't have full information.''
The chief justice's two most senior colleagues, Justices Antonin Scalia and Anthony M. Kennedy, forcefully made similar points. The three justices sit at the center of the Supreme Court bench and at times they seemed a juggernaut bearing down on Ms. Asay.
Other members of the court were also skeptical about the way Vermont had chosen to regulate the distribution of prescription data.
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the state ''is interested in promoting the sale of generic drugs and correspondingly to reduce the sale of brand-name drugs.'' But she said that goal ran up against a basic First Amendment problem.
''You can't lower the decibel level of one speaker,'' she said, ''so that another speaker, in this case the generics, can be heard better.''
Thomas C. Goldstein, a lawyer for several data mining companies challenging the law, said that sort of government manipulation of information is impermissible.
''The way the First Amendment works in the marketplace of ideas that so upsets Vermont is that both sides get to tell their story,'' he said. ''The thing that is supposed to be biased here is that the drug companies have too much money. That is not a basis for restricting speech.''
New Hampshire and Maine have laws similar to the one in Vermont, and those have been upheld by the federal appeals court in Boston. The Vermont law at issue in Tuesday's case was struck down last year by a divided panel of the federal appeals court in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DATA MINING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); DRUG SAFETY (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INSURANCE (72%); INSURANCE LAW (72%); PHARMACIES (71%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



592 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Cars Push Ford's Profit to $2.5 Billion, Best in More Than a Decade

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- The Ford Motor Company on Tuesday reported its best first-quarter earnings since 1998, even as its sales shift to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars.
Ford earned $2.55 billion in the quarter, a 22 percent increase from the period a year ago and the strongest evidence yet of its transformation from a company dependent on big trucks into one that can generate significant profit selling cars of all sizes.
The old Ford lost money on many of its cars, counting on sales of more expensive trucks to stay in the black. Today's Ford, however, is able to persuade many of the drivers who buy its subcompact, the Fiesta, to save on gasoline to also spend thousands of dollars on amenities like heated leather seats. 
As a result, Ford made a profit of about $1,519 on each vehicle, an increase of 59 percent from the year-earlier period, even though revenue was up only 9 percent, to $22,096 a vehicle.
''They have much more competitive products on the small and midsize platforms than they ever have before,'' said John Hoffecker, managing director of the consulting firm AlixPartners in Southfield, Mich. ''What they've been able to do is not treat the small cars as just economy vehicles. They're putting on the kind of features and options that people aren't used to seeing on cars of that size.''
The improvements to Ford's lineup helped it increase its average sale price in the United States by $2,515, or 8 percent, from a year earlier, according to TrueCar.com, a Web site that tracks vehicle sales and prices.
Ford's pretax earnings in North America grew 50 percent, to $1.8 billion. Globally, revenue rose 18 percent, to $33.1 billion.
Efforts to reduce debt also have cut interest payments. Ford eliminated $2.5 billion in debt in the first quarter and said cash reserves now exceeded debt by $4.7 billion. It also reported $2.2 billion of positive cash flow for the quarter, compared with a $100 million outflow a year earlier.
Ford's chief financial officer, Lewis W. K. Booth, said that the parts shortages related to last month's earthquake and tsunami in Japan had cut production in Ford's Asia-Pacific region by as much as 14,000 vehicles but that he expected the company to be minimally affected.
''We're going to manage our way through any minor parts shortages,'' he said. ''There's not going to be a material impact on profitability for the company.''
The company has had to substitute some parts, but ''nothing that changes the quality of the vehicle,'' Mr. Booth said. Three Asia-Pacific plants are down this week, and Ford idled a truck plant in Kentucky for one week this month to conserve parts.
Excluding special items, Ford has posted an operating profit for seven consecutive quarters. On that basis, its first-quarter operating profit of $2.8 billion was equal to 62 cents a share, up from $2 billion, or 46 cents a share. It was 24 percent higher than the consensus forecast of 50 cents a share.
In Europe, where Ford was losing money at the end of last year, pretax profit grew to $293 million, from $107 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Among the challenges Ford faces are higher structural and raw-material costs, which the company projects will rise by $2 billion this year. In the first quarter, those expenses increased by $700 million.
Additionally, Ford's upscale Lincoln brand has been struggling, and the company is planning to overhaul it.
But neither issue is preventing executives or analysts from making bullish projections for the year. Ford said it expected to build 1.5 million vehicles worldwide in the second quarter, 12,000 more than a year ago.
In the United States, Ford's sales jumped 12 percent in the first quarter. It narrowly outsold its larger rival, General Motors, in March, though Ford's market share fell in the quarter to 16.2 percent from 17.4 percent last year, including sales by the Volvo brand, which it has since sold. For all of this year, Ford said it expected its share in the American and European markets to be equal to or better than 2010 levels.
Ford's strong profits have resulted in big paychecks for its executives, which could cause friction when the company negotiates a new contract with the United Auto Workers. Bob King, the U.A.W.'s president, said the $26.5 million compensation for Alan R. Mulally, the chief executive, in 2010 could make the talks ''more difficult'' when they begin this summer. ''I think it is unfortunate,'' Mr. King said in after a speech to the Automotive Press Association in Detroit. ''I think Alan Mulally is a good C.E.O. But he has a blind spot here.''
Mr. King also said the union was not picking a ''strike target'' in this year's negotiations and would try to bargain with Detroit's three automakers simultaneously. Its current four-year contracts with General Motors, Ford and Chrysler expire in mid-September.
Shares of Ford, which had slid 17 percent in the last three months after fourth-quarter results fell short of expectations, rose 12 cents to close at $15.66 on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); TSUNAMIS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); TRUECAR INC (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (66%); SOUTHERN ASIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



593 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: A Conspicuous Absence

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
David L. Sokol was treated like a rock star at last year's annual meeting of Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett. Shareholders lined up for autographs and snapshots of the executive considered by many to be Mr. Buffett's successor.
Mr. Sokol will not attend Berkshire's meeting this weekend. He announced his resignation abruptly last month after reports emerged that he had made a profit by buying the stock of a company in his own account shortly before Mr. Buffett announced he was buying the company.
The sudden downfall came as a surprise to outsiders who had watched Mr. Sokol rise in the business world. He helped build a small Omaha energy business into a multibillion-dollar corporation, sold it to Berkshire Hathaway and by all appearances became one of his boss's favorite executives. Mr. Sokol served as Mr. Buffett's Mr. Fix-it, a turnaround artist trusted to tackle difficult jobs.
But people who worked for Mr. Sokol saw a side of him that Mr. Buffett perhaps did not. His brass-knuckled approach alienated some Berkshire employees, as when he suggested that people with an illness or other personal problems were problematic and when he unceremoniously fired a top executive and made him leave the office that day. 
Flashes of his management style can be found in some earlier litigation as well. In one civil case, a judge rebuked Mr. Sokol for tampering with his company's numbers so that a joint-venture partner would get a smaller payout. In another case, Mr. Sokol sued to find out which employees at a Berkshire unit were disparaging him.
And he irritated colleagues at two of Berkshire's subsidiaries, Johns Manville and NetJets, by frequently invoking Mr. Buffett's name to burnish his own image inside the company.
Some people at Berkshire were puzzled over why Mr. Buffett favored him so much, as when he credited Mr. Sokol for a turnaround of Johns Manville even though the unit's profits fell sharply after he took over.
Now, Mr. Sokol's trading is under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, according to two people close to the inquiry who would speak only on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. So the question of just what Mr. Buffett saw in Mr. Sokol -- and why he has supported him publicly -- will surely be a persistent topic of conversation this weekend in Omaha, at the usually jubilant occasion known as the Woodstock of Capitalism.
Shareholders' questions may cast a pall over the peppy affair as they consider the conduct of Mr. Sokol, who was already wealthy and was on the cusp of running one of America's most respected companies. ''The reasons behind Sokol's actions are a mystery,'' said Whitney Tilson, a fund manager and longtime Berkshire shareholder.
''At the very least, he exercised very poor judgment.''
Mr. Sokol has said that he resigned to focus on family investments and that the stocks were a good investment for his family that he would do again. He did not respond to questions sent by e-mail or to phone messages for this article.
In some ways, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Sokol seem to share many similarities, suggesting an easy familiarity.
They were both born and raised in Omaha, Neb., and still reside there. Each man credits their early jobs as newspaper delivery boys and grocery store clerks, with instilling a strong work ethic. Their business writings are filled with homespun aphorisms.
But there are marked differences as well.
Mr. Buffett, one of America's richest men according to Forbes magazine, owns one home, which he bought in 1958 for $31,500.
Mr. Sokol collects houses, including one near Jackson Hole, Wyo., the upscale ski resort town, and a waterfront home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he docks his yacht.
While Mr. Buffett is a homebody whose favorite leisure pursuit is playing bridge on his computer, Mr. Sokol's passion is hunting. Last month he went on a hunting trip to New Zealand.
They also have different views of investment bankers. Mr. Buffett takes frequent potshots at them and boasts about striking multibillion-dollar deals without using advisers.
While at Berkshire, Mr. Sokol relished his dealings with Wall Street. He flew frequently to New York for rounds of meetings with bankers pitching deals.
Late last year, one of those discussions bore fruit. A meeting with Citigroup bankers led to Berkshire's $9 billion acquisition of Lubrizol, a chemicals company.
But that very meeting also led to Mr. Sokol's eventual departure. Days after initiating merger discussions with Lubrizol on Berkshire's behalf, Mr. Sokol bought $10 million worth of Lubrizol stock, a position that increased by $3 million when the deal was announced last month.
Berkshire's insider trading policy says that executives ''who have access to confidential information are not permitted to use or share that information for stock trading purposes or for any other purpose except the conduct of the company's business.''
Securities lawyers say that regulators could argue that Mr. Sokol's knowledge about Lubrizol was confidential information not only under Berkshire's policy, but also under federal law.
Mr. Sokol has several potential defenses. Even though he bought Lubrizol stock, the possibility of a Berkshire acquisition was remote, it could be argued.
''Dave's purchases were made before he had discussed Lubrizol with me and with no knowledge of how I might react to his idea,'' Mr. Buffett said in his statement last month about Mr. Sokol's departure. Mr. Buffett and Berkshire have not commented about Mr. Sokol since the statement and could not be reached on Tuesday.
Mr. Buffett also said that Mr. Sokol made a ''passing remark'' about his Lubrizol stake, though it led to no follow-up.
It was his Omaha connections that helped Mr. Sokol pierce the Berkshire inner circle.
After earning an engineering degree in 1978 from the University of Nebraska at Omaha and working at a small firm, Mr. Sokol moved to a conglomerate called the Ogden Corporation. He took charge of a unit that developed waste-to-energy technology. At 32, he was chief executive of public company after a stock offering.
While at Ogden, he caught the eye of Walter Scott Jr., a man who would change his life. Mr. Scott was a childhood friend of Mr. Buffett, a member of the Berkshire board and chief executive of Peter Kiewit Sons, a construction company in Omaha.
In 1991, Mr. Sokol moved to Kiewit to acquire energy businesses. Mr. Sokol rapidly built the unit into MidAmerican Energy Holdings, and Berkshire in turn bought the company for about $9 billion in October 1999. It became one of Berkshire's fastest growing and most profitable units, earning $1.2 billion in 2010.
Mr. Sokol's personal wealth grew quickly, too. In his last three years as chief executive, a job he relinquished around 2007, his cash compensation topped $21 million. In 2009, he cashed in options on MidAmerican stock worth $96 million.
But many workers at Berkshire units were rankled by his actions.
At Johns Manville, a building supplies subsidiary, he told a group of managers that people who were dealing with personal problems like divorce or with an illness could be a danger to themselves and to the company. According to two former Manville executives who would speak only anonymously because they were not authorized to discuss the company's matters in public, Mr. Sokol said those people have to be pushed to the side.
In August 2007, several months after arriving at Johns Manville Mr. Sokol abruptly dismissed the company's chief executive, Steven Hochhauser, during an early morning meeting and locked him out of the building, according to one of the former executives. He then offered Mr. Hochhauser at least $1 million to sign a one-way disparagement clause -- the company could disparage Mr. Hochhauser but he could not speak poorly of it, according to two former employees who would speak only on the condition of anonymity. Mr. Hochhauser declined, they said.
Neither Mr. Hochhauser nor a spokeswoman for Manville would comment on the dismissal.
Several Manville executives say they are bewildered by Mr. Buffett's recent praise of Mr. Sokol for installing new management and overseeing an enormous change at the company.
''We had record income from operations in 2005 of $333 million and again in 2006 of $345 million,'' said a third former executive, who would also only speak anonymously, about the years before Mr. Sokol arrived.
Profits plummeted the next three years amid a collapse in the housing market and a brutal recession. Last year, according to one of the former executives, Manville earned $10 million to $30 million.
Mr. Sokol's largest fix-it job became NetJets, which he took over in August 2009. Mr. Buffett praised Mr. Sokol's restructuring and cost-cutting at NetJets in his annual letter in February. ''I can't overstate the breadth and importance of Dave Sokol's achievements,'' he wrote, explaining that NetJets earned $207 million in 2010, a swing of $918 million from a big loss the previous year.
Mr. Sokol's former employees say they are befuddled that someone who extolled the importance of ethics and integrity would find himself in such controversy.
In his self-published book, ''Pleased, But Not Satisfied,'' Mr. Sokol includes integrity as one of his business commandments.
''If you are uncertain about an issue,'' wrote Mr. Sokol, quoting Mr. Buffett, ''it's useful to ask yourself, 'Would I be absolutely comfortable for my actions to be disclosed on the front page of my hometown newspaper?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Before he resigned last month, David Sokol, right, was considered a possible successor to Warren E. Buffett at Berkshire. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, B MATHUR/REUTERS
 NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); LITIGATION (65%); JOINT VENTURES (50%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%); JOHNS MANVILLE CORP (58%); NETJETS INC (58%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (58%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (73%) NEBRASKA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



594 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Holding Bernanke Accountable

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; Twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
Washington
On Wednesday at 2:15 p.m., Ben Bernanke will do something that previous Federal Reserve chairmen considered a terrible idea. He will hold a news conference.
Mr. Bernanke spent much of his academic career arguing that the Fed should be less opaque, and, as chairman, he has put his ideas into action. Now it's time for those of us in the media to hold up our end of bargain. In the spirit of democratic accountability, we should ask hard questions -- and we shouldn't let him get away with the evasions and half-answers that members of Congress too often allow Fed chairmen during their appearances on Capitol Hill.
One question more than any than other is crying out for an answer: Why has Mr. Bernanke decided to accept widespread unemployment for years on end, even though he believes he has the power to reduce it? 
The Fed's own forecasts suggest that the unemployment rate won't fall below 5 percent for perhaps another five or six years. Mr. Bernanke believes the Fed ''retains considerable power'' to reduce unemployment faster, despite the fact that its benchmark interest rate is zero, as he's said before. Yet he has been hesitant to use that power.
He is in a tough spot, to be fair. Several other voting members of the Fed's monetary policy committee -- and some prominent members of Congress -- oppose aggressive action, because they worry it will set off inflation. But these critics always worry about inflation. They have been wrong again and again over the last two years. More important, they don't have enough power to keep Mr. Bernanke from pursuing the policy he thinks is best.
So the Fed's decision to permit high unemployment for an extended period rests on his shoulders.
As he has explained many times, the Fed has alternatives. It could announce that it would keep its benchmark rate at zero for a few years, which would probably hold down long-term rates. It could say that it was comfortable with higher inflation for a limited period of time, given how low inflation has been since 2007 and how high unemployment is. Above all, Mr. Bernanke could make clear that he considers years of widespread unemployment to be unacceptable.
He has not done so, and he has yet to offer a satisfying rationale.
Instead, he has said that more aggressive action brings risks. And it does. Low interest rates have the potential to spark inflation, by enticing millions of households and businesses to borrow money and causing the economy to overheat. Higher inflation could, among other things, increase borrowing rates for the United States government and worsen the deficit.
But it's worth keeping in mind that just about every decision involves some risk. Simply stating that more aggressive action brings risks is not a good argument against that option.
Economists sometimes like to describe choices in terms of a concept known as expected value. The expected value of a decision is the odds of each possible outcome multiplied by the benefit (or cost) of that outcome. If you make an investment that has a 90 percent of breaking even and a 10 percent chance of earning you $5,000, the expected value is $500.
Now extend this concept to the Fed's decision. The consequences of being too aggressive and creating an inflationary spiral are undeniably serious. But the odds still appear quite low. Put the two together, and you get an expected cost that is not high enough to be dictating Fed policy.
One of the best guides to future inflation is recent core inflation -- that is, inflation excluding food and energy prices, which bounce around a lot and often do not translate into big changes in other prices. Despite the uptick in core inflation, it has still risen at an annual pace of only 2 percent over the last three months. On only a few other occasions over the last 40 years has it been so low.
This shouldn't be surprising. After all, does the economy feel as if it's on the verge of overheating?
The expected cost of high unemployment, on the other hand, is steep. For one thing, the chances that unemployment will remain a problem are close to 100 percent. The debate is whether the country will return to full employment in four years or 10 years.
For another, the consequences of high unemployment are also awful. With fewer jobs, states and cities are short of tax revenue. Families lose their life savings. People's health can deteriorate. For the long-term unemployed, the financial damage can be permanent. ''If things go on and they simply sit at home or work very irregularly,'' Mr. Bernanke himself said last year, ''when the economy gets back to a more normal state, they're not going to be able to find good work.''
Unemployment creates political problems, too. Historically, it has tended to make voters less willing to help their fellow citizens, as the economist Benjamin Friedman has written. It's hard to imagine any grand political compromise -- on the deficit, for instance -- in an angry country.
Mr. Bernanke is an admirable public official in many ways. He was calmly heroic during the worst days of the financial crisis. By making the Fed more open, he has taken the rarest of steps for a political figure: voluntarily giving up some of his power.
Nonetheless, his job performance over the last year or so has been flawed. The Fed badly overestimated the economy's strength in 2010 and took too long to correct its mistake. Despite his core belief in letting facts guide decisions, Mr. Bernanke has let himself be overly influenced by a group of colleagues who see inflation always and everywhere as a threat and unemployment as a mere nuisance.
The news conference on Wednesday offers a chance to hold him accountable. The country's leading Fed scholar -- one Ben Bernanke, formerly of Princeton -- would expect nothing less.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, spent much of his academic career saying that the Fed's actions should be less opaque. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RANK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INFLATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



595 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Big Push For a Top Sciences School

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The mayor of New York does not usually take time from his schedule to mingle with academic deans from Finland. But there was Michael R. Bloomberg at the Metropolitan Museum of Art recently, trying to sell the foreign visitors on his next big idea: a top-flight applied sciences school for the city.
As he seeks to revive his flagging third term, Mr. Bloomberg has taken a strong personal interest in the project, embarking on a campaign-style effort to lobby university leaders and business executives.
Such a school, envisioned as one of the largest development projects in the city's history, could transform the local economy and help burnish his image as a financial steward. 
The idea is one of the more imaginative proposals to come out of Mr. Bloomberg's City Hall, but it may also be among the riskiest. The city has pledged to offer capital and public land to the university that drafts a winning proposal; 27 institutions -- including Columbia, Stanford and the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology -- have signaled their interest.
Critics have deplored the city's willingness to offer incentives at a time of economic distress. And the mayor has angered local university leaders with his suggestion that New York lacked a top-tier engineering school. They argue that the city should instead use its resources to help expand existing programs.
''In a period of economic crisis, when we are so tight with our budget, we should not be giving incentives to private institutions,'' City Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez of Manhattan said. ''We have great programs here.''
Still, the idea has piqued the attention of the academic world, which has rarely seen a city so eager to recruit an institution of higher education. And the mayor's personal involvement appears to be a significant factor.
Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a group of business leaders that has supported the effort, said university leaders were keenly aware of the mayor's clout as a philanthropist and his record as an entrepreneur.
''He's not your average hometown mayor,'' Ms. Wylde said. ''His personal credibility in all sectors relevant to higher education is a huge attraction for the academic world.''
George Campbell Jr., president of the Cooper Union, which was one of the institutions that submitted a proposal, said: ''There's no question that he's a big factor. He clearly understands the importance of this area.''
Stanford officials have embarked on one of the more aggressive efforts to woo the city. They propose building a campus costing more than $1 billion that would be home to 2,200 graduate students and 100 professors.
''When the mayor made the announcement, there was some real enthusiasm,'' said John L. Hennessy, Stanford's president.
The city, in return, has said it may be able to offer $100 million or more in capital, perhaps through investments in infrastructure or loans, according to a state lawmaker briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to preserve his relationship with city officials.
The idea for an applied sciences school came in the aftermath of the financial crisis as city officials looked for ways to make the economy less dependent on Wall Street. They saw potential in the applied sciences, which include engineering, physics, computer science, chemistry, mathematics and environmental science.
''There are industries that are here that are just not growing as fast as they could be, and there are industries that aren't here but could be here,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
Compared with Boston, a hub of higher education, New York lags far behind in engineering, with nearly half the number of professors and a small fraction of the research money per faculty member. None of the city's graduate engineering schools are listed in the top 10 in the U.S. News & World Report rankings; the closest is Columbia, at No. 16. Each year, a steady tide of engineering graduates flows from New York schools to start-ups in California.
But exactly how to invigorate applied sciences in the city has provoked debate even as the idea has won support from politicians and large corporations like Google.
The city is already home to several engineering programs, including Columbia's Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, the Polytechnic Institute of New York University, the Cooper Union and the Grove School of Engineering at the City College of New York.
Columbia, joined by the City University of New York, has proposed a 1,200-student, 80-professor institute for communication technologies in West Harlem. N.Y.U., joined by CUNY, Carnegie Mellon, the University of Toronto and I.B.M., has suggested a center for urban science that would be home to 300 students and 100 researchers in Brooklyn or on Roosevelt Island.
Some university officials worry that involving a university from outside the city would hamper the efforts of hometown institutions to recruit faculty members.
In N.Y.U.'s proposal to the city, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, officials for the university, which is planning an expansion of its engineering programs in Brooklyn, wrote, ''A 'start from scratch' approach that parachutes a new player into New York without the requisite ingredients that lead to success has the potential to be a waste of resources.''
The reaction was similar at Columbia, which is planning an expansion into Manhattanville.
William A. Zajc, chairman of Columbia's physics department, said the idea for an applied sciences school was a ''field of dreams venture.''
''We're being asked to believe you can create a new major research facility out of vacant real estate?'' Dr. Zajc said. ''Silicon Valley didn't spring up because Santa Clara or Palo Alto went out and solicited proposals for an engineering center. They relied on existing strength.''
Mr. Pinsky said the city would happily partner with New York schools if they suggested ideas that ''moved the needle.''
Some have faulted the city for not clearly articulating how it might recover some of its investments if the school does not turn out to be the economic engine that the mayor expects. Some academic leaders say the money would be more wisely spent on helping young engineers start businesses after they graduate.
Mr. Pinsky said the city would soon formally evaluate the costs and potential benefits of an applied sciences school. ''We're not entering this assuming failure,'' he said. He said investing in infrastructure would help the city recover from the economic downturn.
The city is expected to choose a university by the end of the year, and construction could begin soon after.
Mr. Bloomberg, who majored in electrical engineering at Johns Hopkins University, will presumably be long retired from public office when the school is completed. That has not stopped speculation that he may one day lend his philanthropic support to the endeavor.
''If this were like Saudi Arabia and somebody committed $300 million up front,'' Dr. Campbell of Cooper Union said, ''this could get done much quicker.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg with John B. Shoven, left, the director of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, and George P. Shultz, its honorary chairman, in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE CASTILLO/STANFORD UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUDGETS (74%); HISTORY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



596 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Projects Shelved In the Downturn Spring Back to Life

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
During the recession the developer Brookfield Office Properties shelved plans to build several office towers on a 5.4-million-square-foot property that runs from Ninth Avenue to Dyer Avenue, between West 31st and West 33rd Streets. But Brookfield did not ignore the project in the downturn.
The developer spent the last several years studying the engineering of a deck over the rail yards on the site, and says it has found a way to build it cheaper and quicker. It will start construction later this year, with plans to deliver a two-million-square-foot office tower designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill on the northeast corner of the parcel by 2015. There are plans to eventually construct as many as three towers.
''We will start building the deck on spec but are confident that by the time we get around to building the tower, we will have found an anchor tenant,'' said Ric Clark, the president and chief executive. While he declined to give asking rents for the tower, Brookfield has begun preliminary conversations with tenants and expects to be competitively priced with the Hudson Yards buildings the Related Companies is planning a few blocks west. 
As rents rebound and vacancies fall in the New York office market, some developers like Mr. Clark who shelved projects in the recession are resurrecting their plans. Several buildings are in the pipeline, and nearly 9.5 million square feet could become available over the next few years -- in addition to several million more square feet at the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan and the Hudson Yards.
A number of factors are driving the trend. Commercial rents are rising in certain submarkets and have held steady in others. Builders who believe the market has turned are preparing sites now in the hopes their projects will come online when higher rents are firmly established.
The city's aging office stock is another factor. Nearly 83 percent of the office buildings in Manhattan were built more than three decades ago, according to the real estate company Cassidy Turley, and just 6.6 percent have been built since 1990. Many tenants, particularly law firms and financial services companies, crave new space that can be more efficient and tailored to their needs. Finally, construction costs could fall as union contracts begin expiring over the next few months and contractors push to exclude costly labor rules.
''A year ago people were saying the market was so bad they wouldn't contemplate ground-up construction,'' said John F. Powers, the chairman of the New York tri-state region for CB Richard Ellis. ''But now, there is upward pressure on rents in some segments of the market, and certainly there is no more downward pressure, so developers are beginning to run pro formas again,'' he said, referring to the method of estimating a project's cost.
In the first quarter of this year there were 15 office leases in Midtown at rents above $90 a square foot, compared with 23 for all of 2010, according to Cushman & Wakefield. At the same time the vacancy rate in Midtown has dropped to 10.3 percent, compared with 12.6 percent at this time last year.
Tenants considering locking in new space now, before rents rise further, include Time Warner Inc., the financial services behemoth UBS and the law firm Mayer Brown. According to Cassidy Turley there are 446 tenants in the market chasing less than 28 million square feet of space.
Particularly well-poised are those developers who had begun preparing before the recession and can resume construction now at points further along. Pacolet Milliken Enterprises, the sister company of the textile firm Milliken & Company, demolished the building at 1045 Avenue of the Americas, a full block between West 39th and West 40th Streets, in 2009. The company has completed the schematic design for a 350,000-square-foot office building at the now-vacant lot, and has hired the Houston-based real estate firm Hines as a consultant.
''We feel very confident about the market and the location,'' said Richard C. Webel, Pacolet Milliken's president. He said the company had been speaking preliminarily with tenants, though it had not yet hired a broker. As for timing, ''based on who we have talked to, the market should be there by 2015 or 2016, if not sooner,'' Mr. Webel said.
Timing is critical as the market starts to revive, experts said. ''The first buildings to be up and running will be most successful in grabbing an anchor tenant,'' said Robert Sammons, the vice president for research services at Cassidy Turley.
Boston Properties is banking on this as it revives construction on a 1-million-square-foot office tower at 250 West 55th Street; building stopped in 2008 after the foundation was poured. Since it is partially built, it will be a relatively short time -- mid-2014 -- until Boston Properties can deliver the building to tenants. Already, it is in lease negotiations with the law firm Morrison Foerster as an anchor tenant.
Another tower that is being closely watched is 20 Times Square. Vornado Realty Trust has had a plan for the 1.25 million-square-foot office building, which will be built over the Port Authority Bus Terminal, for several years. Steven Roth, Vornado's chairman, recently said he would consider erecting the tower before signing an anchor tenant, thanks in part to a multimillion-dollar cash infusion from an unnamed investor.
Not all of the new construction is in Midtown. In Greenwich Village, Edward J. Minskoff Equities is expecting to break ground this summer on 51 Astor Place, a 430,000-square-foot mixed-use mixed-use office building. ''With technology getting hot again, and Midtown South having the lowest vacancy rate in the country at 8 percent, a new building in the vicinity should do well,'' Kenneth J. McCarthy, the senior economist and senior managing director for research at Cushman & Wakefield, said.
Another factor that could spur development is coming contract negotiations between the construction trade unions and contractors. Thirty labor-contractor collective bargaining agreements are set to expire on June 30, and contractors are pressing for significant cost reductions.
Already, builders have been increasingly using nonunion laborers for projects, and among the sticking points will be what some contractors and owners consider archaic and costly work rules.
''One part of the equation is rents, but the other part, which is very important, is the cost of construction,'' Mr. Powers said. While it would be a boon for developers if labor costs were reduced, the fight is expected to be tough, said John Krush, an executive managing director at Newmark Knight Frank Project & Development Management. There is a possibility that unions could call for work stoppages, and ''a stoppage of any length -- one month, one week -- would be incredibly costly for developers,'' he said.
''Negotiations are just beginning, and it is far too soon to speculate about whether there will be work stoppages, or what may or may not happen,'' said Gary LaBarbera, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York.
Still, office development seems poised to rebound. ''There are several players who have financing, who have the land, and have been waiting on the sidelines for some indications that the market is improving,'' Mr. Sammons said. For those builders, ''the time is now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ric Clark is president and chief executive of Brookfield Office Properties, which plans to build office towers over the rail yards behind him along Ninth Avenue in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%)

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (57%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



597 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Government, Too, Has Trouble Selling Buildings

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
For more than six years Akridge, a developer in Washington, had its eye on a 10-story office building in Bethesda, Md., which had been vacant since the National Institutes of Health moved out in 2002.
But the federal government did not put the building on the market until November 2009. By then, of course, the real estate market had slumped. Akridge and its partner, Rockwood Capital, a real estate investment fund in White Plains, finally bought the building last October, paying $12.5 million, less than the $14 million asking price.
In a report last October Republicans in Congress pounced on the long delay in selling the Bethesda building -- and the discounted price -- as an example of how the federal government has been mismanaging its real estate holdings.
The government owns or manages more than 900,000 buildings or other structures across the country -- office buildings, courthouses, warehouses and other property types -- making it the nation's largest landlord. But like the former N.I.H. building, about 14,000 are no longer needed and are costly to maintain. An additional 55,000 are regarded as underutilized. 
The report was also harshly critical of government spending to operate surplus and underused buildings, including $6.5 million for the Old Post Office Building at 12th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington. The administration's own figures estimate the annual operating expenses for those buildings at more than $1.8 billion.
Last June President Obama ordered executive agencies to accelerate efforts to dispose of unneeded buildings, and set a goal of saving $3 billion by the end of 2012. Yet various obstacles make it difficult for the government to unload buildings it no longer wants.
For one thing they must first be offered to other federal, state and local agencies. Officials also have to ascertain if the building has a community use -- say, for a homeless shelter.
At times an agency may want to sell an obsolete building but cannot afford the moving costs, Jeffrey D. Zients, a deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget, said in a telephone interview. Then, too, political considerations may come into play. ''Politicians love to come hold a ribbon-cutting for a new building,'' Mr. Zients said. ''Getting rid of a building is less rewarding.''
The Obama administration has determined that if the barriers to selling were removed, he said, the savings could be much higher -- $15 billion over five years. The sum includes the dollars not spent on maintenance and energy costs as well as sale proceeds.
To speed up the disposal process the administration wants to create an independent commission modeled after the Base Realignment and Closure Commission, or BRAC, a process begun in 1988 to review Defense Department recommendations for closing military bases. The proposed commission, the Civilian Property Realignment Board, would be able to cut through much of the existing red tape, establish new procedures and come up with recommendations for selling property in bulk, Mr. Zients said.
The commission would also recommend ways the government could use its space more efficiently by, for example, consolidating space or getting agencies to move into one building.
In addition, the legislation is expected to provide incentives for federal agencies by allowing them to share in the proceeds from any sales. To reduce political influence, the commission's recommendations would be submitted to Congress as a package and not subject to amendment -- similar to the way the base closure recommendations were handled. Daniel Werfel, the controller for the Office of Management and Budget, said the commission would include people with experience in commercial real estate, government operations and community development.
The commission concept has bipartisan support, said Jeff Denham, Republican of California and the chairman of the House subcommittee on public buildings. ''The goal in the short term is to sell as many buildings as possible to generate some immediate cash flow to help with the debt crisis,'' said Mr. Denham, who backed a similar proposal when he was a state legislator. The longer-term goal is to improve the way the federal government handles its real estate needs, he said.
Some real estate experts wondered if a board was necessary. ''Whenever government is faced with a problem, the first thing they do is appoint a commission,'' said Nicholas R. Smith, an executive vice president at First Potomac Realty Trust, a publicly traded company that leases more than 700,000 square feet to the government. Mr. Smith said the process for selling federal property should simply be made less complex.
Jeffrey D. DeBoer, the chief executive of the Real Estate Roundtable, a Washington trade group that represents industry leaders, described the proposed board as a ''positive idea.'' But he urged the government to restrict its sales efforts for now to stronger markets with relatively low office vacancy rates, like Manhattan, the Back Bay area of Boston, Washington, San Francisco and the West Side of Los Angeles.
''Our concerns are about the unnecessary dumping of assets in some markets that are oversupplied because of economic conditions,'' Mr. DeBoer said. ''We want to make sure we don't make weak markets weaker.''
In their report last October criticizing the sale of the Bethesda office building, Republican members of the House Transportation Committee excoriated other government real estate practices. Titled ''Sitting on Our Assets,'' it said, for example, that the government spent about $12 million a year to operate the Old Post Office, which is near the White House, and collected only about $5.5 million in annual rent from the federal agencies and retailers that occupy about half the space. In 2008 Congress authorized the General Services Administration to solicit bids for redeveloping the building, but the requests for proposals went out only in March.
But Douglas M. Firstenberg, a principal of StonebridgeCarras, leading developer of government-leased buildings, said that despite its prime location the Old Post Office is a tough sell. Development options would be limited because the building is historic and has existing tenants. ''If you could start with a clean slate,'' Mr. Firstenberg said, ''the line of people who would want to be involved would be endless.''
Darian A. LeBlanc, a senior managing director at Cassidy Turley, a Washington real estate company, said the National Institutes of Health building in Bethesda sold for a low price because of its poor condition.
The buyer, Akridge, plans to spend $33 million to upgrade the building to attract private tenants, said P. Brian Connolly, a senior vice president. Mr. Connolly said it would not have been appropriate for the government to invest that much. ''Government entities are not in the risk-taking business,'' he said. ''We believe this is a wonderfully safe investment, but there's always a risk.''
Some lawmakers have also criticized the federal government for renting when it could be owning. According to government figures, leasing costs increased to $8.1 billion in the 2009 fiscal year from $6.7 billion in 2008.
At a recent hearing Mr. Denham, the California congressman, said the Transportation Department was spending more than $1 billion to lease its headquarters at New Jersey Avenue and M Street Southeast. ''Yet the government could have purchased several buildings for this amount,'' he said.
Mr. Werfel of the Office of Management and Budget said he could not comment specifically on that lease. ''But as a general rule,'' he said, ''if we know we're going to have a long-term presence in a building -- 15 to 30 years -- we should be owning, not leasing space.''
Not surprisingly brokers who negotiate government leases say there are often substantial advantages to renting space. ''Once you've owned a building for 30 years -- then what?'' said Joseph B. Brennan, a managing director at Jones Lang LaSalle. ''When you lease the space, you get the prime value from the building, and then you're able to move on.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2011; 

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about the federal government's difficulty in divesting some of its real estate holdings misspelled the name of a deputy director in the Office of Management and Budget. He is Jeffrey D. Zients, not Jeffrey D. Zeints.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The government owns or manages more than 900,000 structures, and many are vacant or underutilized, like the Old Post Office Building in Washington, above, and a former federal office in Bethesda, Md., left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); POLITICS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); MILITARY BASES (61%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%)

COMPANY: ROCKWOOD CAPITAL LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011



598 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyist Fires Warning Shot Over Donation Disclosure Plan

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- So much for detente.
After a brief truce of sorts between the White House and business leaders, the top lobbyist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce took aim at President Obama on Tuesday over an as-yet unannounced plan to force government contractors to disclose their political giving.
The lobbyist, R. Bruce Josten, said in an interview that the powerful business bloc ''is not going to tolerate'' what it saw as a ''backdoor attempt'' by the White House to silence private-sector opponents by disclosing their political spending. 
''We will fight it through all available means,'' Mr. Josten said. In a reference to the White House's battle to depose Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, he said, ''To quote what they say every day on Libya, all options are on the table.''
While no final decision has been announced, the White House has acknowledged that Mr. Obama is considering issuing an executive order requiring all would-be federal contractors to disclose direct and indirect political spending of more than $5,000.
The order could, for instance, force a military contractor or an energy company seeking federal work to report money it gave to the Chamber of Commerce or another advocacy group to help finance political ads and expenditures.
After tens of millions of dollars in anonymous political spending flooded the 2010 elections following a landmark Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United case, Democrats tried to pass a bill known as the Disclose Act to require greater reporting of political spending, only to see it blocked by Senate Republicans. Democrats are now turning to other means, including the possible White House order and a lawsuit filed last week against the Federal Election Commission, to achieve similar ends.
When asked about the possible order this week, the White House spokesman, Jay Carney, said, ''What the president is committed to is transparency, and he certainly thinks that the American taxpayer should know where his or her money is going.''
The sparring over the issue disrupts several months of relative calm between the White House and business leaders.
The two sides clashed last year over Congressional action on health care and business regulations, with the chamber spending $42 million on the 2010 midterm elections to push its opposition to administration policies.
But in February, Mr. Obama crossed Lafayette Park for a speech at the chamber at which he promised to be ''more neighborly'' with business leaders. Elizabeth Warren, the administration official in charge of setting up a consumer protection bureau, delivered a similar message of partnership in another speech before the group last month, and chamber executives also pledged to work cooperatively with the White House.
Mr. Josten, in an interview at his spacious office in view of the White House, said the chamber was concerned about a variety of Obama administration policies that it considered potentially damaging to businesses in a time of economic uncertainty.
Those concerns include the efforts to carry out last year's health care plan, a vast expansion of business regulations under the Dodd-Frank measure passed by Congress and the slow pace of new trade agreements with foreign nations.
American businesses ''are losing market share'' globally to countries like Canada that have enacted new trade pacts, Mr. Josten said. ''The rest of the world -- while we're sitting around doing nothing -- is racing ahead.''
But much of the renewed tension can be traced to the prospect of the White House order on political disclosures -- first disclosed last week in a blog posting by Hans von Spakovsky, a conservative lawyer who worked on election law in President George W. Bush's administration.
The Business Roundtable, another powerful business association made up of leading chief executives, also urged the White House on Tuesday not to move ahead with the draft order. It called the proposal ''yet another example of regulatory over-reach'' and said it would increase paperwork and drive up costs for businesses.
On Tuesday, 27 Republican senators also sent Mr. Obama a letter accusing him of playing politics through the proposal.
Mr. Josten said that the order as now drafted would also stifle free speech rights for businesses that worked with the government by subjecting them to harassment and protests if their political spending were disclosed.
As one example, he pointed to the Target Corporation, which was the object of boycotts and protests at its stores last year after reports said that the company gave $150,000 to a Minnesota business group that supported a Republican candidate opposed to gay marriage. ''This is meant to have a chilling effect,'' he said of the disclosure plan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: R. Bruce Josten is an executive vice president at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (64%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); APPEALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



599 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SEATTLE JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Long After Microsoft, Allen and Gates Cast Shadows Over City

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Perhaps at some point there will be one final screaming match between Paul Allen and Bill Gates, the Microsoft founders who transformed this city into a computer capital more than 30 years ago and whose vast fortunes, and different tastes, have been reshaping it ever since.
''The discussion will be very, very intense,'' Mr. Allen, by far the more reclusive of the two billionaires, said here recently in a rare public appearance.
As a stream of headlines has made clear, Mr. Allen recently reopened some dark chapters of Microsoft's early days in his controversial new memoir, ''Idea Man'' (Portfolio Hardcover). The book sometimes paints an unflattering portrait of Mr. Gates as ruthless and rude, conniving at times to reduce Mr. Allen's influence in the company. (Page 103: ''I'd been taught that a deal was a deal and your word was your word. Bill was more flexible.'') Not surprisingly, the men have not spoken since Mr. Gates, now reconstituted as one of the world's most generous philanthropists, was given an advance copy of the book several months ago. 
Yet here in the city that has been their stage for three decades, they remain in constant, indirect contact. Their latest endeavors, legacies of the vast fortunes they made writing computer code, crisscross each other here almost block by block, remaking Seattle in consequential ways that might seem to have little connection to their spats at Microsoft in the early 1980s.
Neither seeks attention, but for decades they have provided decent theater simply by having tons of money and an interest in spending some of it here at home, in different ways.
''Obviously people are interested in them: they're some of the richest guys in the world,'' said Rob Sanfilippo, research vice president at Directions on Microsoft, which analyzes the software giant.
''They have a big economic impact,'' Mr. Sanfilippo said.
This spring, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will open its new $500 million, environmentally minded headquarters a few blocks from the Space Needle, which stands beside the Experience Music Project, Mr. Allen's museum of rock 'n' roll, an architectural power chord designed by Frank Gehry, not always perceived as being in tune.
And just as Gates Foundation employees are about to move into their new offices, employees of another, newer high-tech giant, Amazon, have been moving into their sprawling new offices (1.7 million square feet) in buildings Mr. Allen built in the South Lake Union neighborhood.
They join several organizations in the area that are involved in global health issues, including a cancer hospital, scientific researchers and educational groups. Some lease space from Mr. Allen's firm, Vulcan Inc. The Paul G. Allen Family Foundation, his philanthropy, has given money to some of the groups. So has the Gates Foundation, just blocks away.
''Many of our grantees are located close to us, and they happen to be in property that Vulcan owns,'' said Martha Choe, the chief administrative officer for the Gates Foundation. ''It's a small world.''
In a brief phone interview on Tuesday, Mr. Allen said of the common ground: ''It has nothing to do with deliberate planning on our parts. It just turned out to be great area of the city that's really re-energized by the burgeoning biotech and other companies that moved into that area.''
Mr. Gates has issued only one statement about Mr. Allen's book since its release last week -- ''While my recollection of many of these events may differ from Paul's, I value his friendship and the important contributions he made to the world of technology and at Microsoft'' -- and a spokesman said it was all Mr. Gates intended to say on the subject.
For all the public fuss about ''Idea Man,'' many of the tense moments it describes happened before Mr. Allen left the company in 1983. People here often cast it as old news in a city where the conversation, and Mr. Allen and Mr. Gates, have mostly moved on.
''We meet all the time and we talk about what's going on with Microsoft and, to be honest, this hasn't come up in our discussions,'' said Mr. Sanfilippo, of Directions on Microsoft. ''No one's mentioned it.''
Others, including some who receive money from the Gates Foundation and lease property from Vulcan, see no point in choosing sides.
''He's creating an environment where work can be done, where creativity can happen,'' Ken Stuart, president of Seattle BioMed, an infectious disease research nonprofit, said of Mr. Allen. ''That's quite different from what Bill is doing. But they're both doing things that complement each other.''
Both billionaires grew up within the Seattle city limits, but neither lives here anymore. Mr. Allen lives on Mercer Island, just east of the city, and Mr. Gates lives one bridge farther away, in Medina. Microsoft is also a suburban endeavor, sprawling across the nearby city of Redmond. But Seattle remains central to both men.
''That campus is a commitment to the city and to the Northwest,'' Mr. Stuart said of the Gates Foundation.
Mr. Stuart noted that he could see both the foundation and the Experience Music Project from his office window. ''There's an irony there,'' he said. ''Those two buildings look very different.''
In his appearance last week, at Town Hall, Mr. Allen held his ground on his claims about Mr. Gates and Microsoft. Had he not told it like it was, he said, ''I wouldn't be doing justice to my own life.'' But he also repeatedly praised Mr. Gates, as he does in the book, where he recounts how Mr. Gates visited him after he was hospitalized with cancer in 2009.
He also noted that he signed the so-called billionaire's pledge, to give at least half of his fortune to charity during his lifetime or upon his death, after Mr. Gates asked him to.
Asked if he ever thought he and Mr. Gates would start another business together, though, Mr. Allen said, ''It's hard to go back to those halcyon days.''
PAUL ALLEN: AGE 58 FORTUNE $13 billion WORLD RANK 57 DROPPED OUT OF Washington State University GEEK AESTHETIC Built the utterly original Experience Music Project, a rock 'n' roll and science fiction museum.; BILL GATES: AGE 55 FORTUNE $56 billion WORLD RANK 2 DROPPED OUT OF Harvard GEEK AESTHETIC Installed giant screens in his Lake Washington home that showed guests' favorite art.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about the relationship between the Microsoft founders Paul Allen and Bill Gates and their impact on Seattle misstated the name of Mr. Allen's museum of rock 'n' roll there. As the article and accompanying chart said, it is the Experience Music Project, not the Music Experience Project.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new headquarters of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will open this spring near the Space Needle and the Music Experience Project, a museum built by Paul Allen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL AND MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION/NBBJ/BENJAMIN BENSCHNEIDER)
 Paul Allen, left, and Bill Gates in 1981. Mr. Allen writes of tensions at Microsoft in his memoir. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICROSOFT, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (87%); CHARITIES (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); POP & ROCK (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); VULCAN INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (84%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (94%); BILL GATES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011



600 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Lazard's Quarterly Profit Falls 5%

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Gains in the firm's core deal-making business were offset by a rise in noncompensation expenses. 

 BODY:
8:14 a.m. | Updated 
Lazard on Thursday reported a 5 percent slip in first-quarter profit, as gains in its core mergers and advisory business were offset by higher expenses tied to the growth of its asset management operations.
The independent investment bank earned $58.5 million, or 43 cents a diluted share, in the first three months of the year. Net revenue was essentially flat at $438 million.
During the period a year earlier, Lazard reported profit of $61.4 million, or 46 cents a diluted share. Those figures exclude an accounting charge tied to an overhaul of the firm's compensation structure.
Lazard's mergers operations, considered an indicator of the overall health of the deal-making economy, showed resilience, as the business of buying and selling companies has rebounded strongly in the last year.
"We have entered 2011 with momentum in our M.&A, strategic and capital advisory business," Kenneth M. Jacobs, Lazard's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
The mergers unit reported an 11 percent gain in revenue, to $163.8 million.
Lazard has been involved in some of the biggest transactions announced this year, including Progress Energy's $13.7 billion sale to Duke Energy and Vodafone's $11.3 billion purchase of a controlling stake in SFR of France. 
The firm is also advising the IntercontinentalExchange in its joint bid with the Nasdaq OMX Group to take over NYSE Euronext.
Lazard also advises governments, including the United States in its divestiture of General Motors stock and Greece in its continuing sovereign debt woes.
"We see many opportunities for future growth," Matthieu Bucaille, Lazard's chief financial officer, told DealBook in an interview by phone. "In M.&A., we continue to build up a strong pipeline, and we're very well positioned to work on highly visible, complex assignments."
The firm's restructuring business continued to decline, recording a 65 percent drop in revenue, as fewer companies filed for bankruptcy or needed reorganization advice.
Revenue in Lazard's asset management business -- which is intended to smooth out the up-and-down nature of deal-making revenue -- grew 22 percent, to $224 million. The firm said that its assets under management reached a record $160.5 billion, while management fees rose 28 percent. Incentive fees fell 63 percent, mostly because of a surprising one-time gain at one of the firm's European funds last year.
Lazard said its compensation ratio remained relatively steady at 59.1 percent, as the firm sought to keep payouts to employees from growing too high. 
But it recorded a 2 percent rise in noncompensation expenses, to $94.6 million, tied to expanding its asset management business and paying out additional fees mandated by the British government.
Lazard announced on Wednesday that it had raised its dividend 28 percent, to 16 cents a share.
In an earlier version of this article, the surname of Matthieu Bucaille, Lazard's chief financial officer, was misspelled. 

        
Deals Buttress Profit at Lazard
        
Lazard Posts $62.2 Million 3rd-Quarter Profit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); EURO CRISIS (69%) Lazard; quarterly earnings; Jacobs, Kenneth M; Lazard Ltd; Lazard Ltd|LAZ|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (55%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (54%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (54%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Lazard Ltd

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (55%); ICE (NYSE) (54%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (54%); NYX (PAR) (54%); NYX (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%) Lazard Ltd; LAZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Jacobs, Kenneth M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (76%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (74%); GREECE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

 
