

601 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Bryant's Fall Is an Example Of How to Be Unlike Mike

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
IN the latest of his serial attempts to rehab his manhood for Christmas, Kobe Bryant spun a few fancy doughnuts in the lane, at times careering into the belly of Shaquille O'Neal.
 Wasn't it softer before? As Hollywood's vanity experts at the Staples Center gazed at their beloved O'Neal yesterday, they must have wondered, what fad diet was he on? 
 He has gone Kobe-free and looks good for it. So who says Bryant doesn't make other players better? It is warped this way, but it always is with Bryant, a player with phenomenal talent that is misapplied, a man with a wholesome appeal that has curdled. 
 Christmas, like every day, was all about Bryant, and his need to prove he's the Man without understanding the responsibilities of adulthood. He got his -- a whopping 42 points -- but the Lakers took the 104-102 overtime loss to O'Neal's Miami Heat on Bryant's watch. He was obsessive -- shooting 30 times -- but his 3-pointer cracked off the rim at the buzzer.
 ''I wasn't worried about doing anything crazy or out of my team's character,'' O'Neal said after a solid 24 points and 11 rebounds. ''I would rather get a win every time.''
 O'Neal's team finished without him as he watched overtime on the bench after fouling out. Bryant's team lost with him as his legs grew leaden once his adrenaline expired. 
 O'Neal turned the game over to Dwyane Wade, a player he has mentored since he landed in Miami. Bryant turned the game over to Lakers extras, players left atrophied from watching their shooting star shoot until the last second. ''I knew that it wasn't going to go in,'' O'Neal said of Bryant's final launch.
 Shaq should know. As a Laker, O'Neal was a witness to Bryant's implosion, a spectator to the deflation of the league's great hope.
 Bryant was once the N.B.A.'s alternative programming to its hip-hop players when he arrived as a pop star that the Volvo crowd could embrace. He had Eminem in his music file but projected Osmond. And while other players had strip-club punch cards, Kobe soon had a wife waiting for him at his Pacific Palisades mansion. 
 He entered the league with an 1100 on his SAT and not one tattoo. If Allen Iverson appealed to the sneaker-buying urban youth on the street, Bryant played to the ticket-buying soccer dads in ''The O.C.'' 
 He was the great suburban icon as the son of a former N.B.A. journeyman from the upper-class outskirts of Philadelphia. He was worldly, but all ball, preferring Michael Jordan game tapes over PlayStation videogames.
 Wasn't he just like Mike? Before long, Bryant had the Madison Avenue smile and GQ style to go with his Cirque du Soleil court skills and championship rings. And, as it turns out, Bryant also channeled Jordan's scoundrel side behind the family image and his ruthlessness as a teammate.
 Bryant was exposed; Jordan was not. While the hype-come-true bash yesterday invited an inventory to detail Bryant's plunge to outcast, while he was cast as Kobe-nezer to Shaq-a-Claus, it was also a moment of reflection. 
 Where did Bryant go wrong in his imitation of M.J.? It began somewhere in suburbia, with his needs indulged by a doting family, the ball always in his hands.
 Somehow, this sheltered existence left him arrested in development and devoid of street savvy. Bryant never learned the N.B.A. code: choose pole dancers over hotel clerks, teammates who make you better and discretion over snitching.
 For two years, Bryant has violated all of the above. Instead of abiding by the ''keep it real'' index of N.B.A. players, Bryant outed himself as a phony. The first sign of this developed when Bryant, a self-professed glowing father and husband, was accused of raping a concierge in Eagle, Colo.
 Instead of finding humility, Bryant responded with an odd mix of arrogance and insecurity. As if to boost his street cred, Bryant sat still for his first tattoo -- which, even now, seems like a Cracker Jack press-on. 
 Bryant's rite of passage didn't make him one of the fellas, though. Without showing any conscience, he parlayed his free-agent capital into a cudgel to run off Coach Phil Jackson and O'Neal. 
 Still, many gave Bryant a pass on hypocrisy until he was publicly exposed as a tattler this year. All those seasons of ball hogging, and Bryant chose to dish dirt on his teammates.
 He whispered O'Neal's name into the ears of the police when cornered in Colorado as he ruminated on ways to pay off his accuser. And to think, Bryant never thought he needed Shaq. Then Bryant went to the news media to describe the juicy tidbits of how he said Karl Malone had hit on his wife, Vanessa. And yet Bryant's indignant tone had long lost its credibility.
 Jordan never divulged self-incriminating details, forever playing personal defense as the caretaker of his image. He was a great player and a high-stakes gambler, a fierce competitor and an insatiable flirt, a bully and a manipulator, but he understood the value of teammates, victories and discretion. 
 Bryant's transparency is his weakness. You could almost see through him yesterday, peer right into his desperation to show up O'Neal. There he was, crashing into O'Neal -- the Corvette versus the brick wall, as Shaq described it last week -- trying to reclaim his image as an untouchable superstar, as the man of the moment, as the embraceable star he used to be.
 Bryant called the loss a ''learning experience,'' handled a few more questions and politely left the podium. All that charm, and little appeal. All those points, and no victory for Kobe. In this odd way, it's Christmas every day in Laker Land. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); SOCCER (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); RAP MUSIC (64%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); POP & ROCK (60%) Basketball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Sex Crimes; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (83%); MIAMI HEAT (55%) Los Angeles Lakers

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (93%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (90%) Selena Roberts; Kobe Bryant

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004



602 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2053 words

HEADLINE: Bettman's Vision for the N.H.L. Did Not Include Labor Strife

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
From his office on the 47th floor, above the streets of Midtown Manhattan, Gary Bettman, commissioner of the National Hockey League, presides over a sport that is threatening to become the first to lose an entire season because of a labor stalemate.
 Arenas left dark for just over 100 days and the cancellation of nearly 500 games were not part of the business plan that Bettman envisioned when he was named commissioner 12 years ago.
 ''Nobody misses the game more than I do,'' he said in an interview last week at the N.H.L.'s headquarters in Rockefeller Center.
 On the street below, pedestrians were bundled up against the chill winter air. It was hockey weather, but no one was playing in Bettman's locked-out league. 
 When he was introduced as the commissioner in 1992, coming to the N.H.L. from the National Basketball Association, he had a bold plan. Bettman said that the league would soon ''dispel the myth that this is a regional sport'' and that it would be perceived ''more like the other major sports leagues.''
 ''The prospects for growth are phenomenal,'' he said, adding, ''I view myself as a dealmaker.''
 The league would continue to expand throughout the United States, from its base in Canada and the Midwest and Northeast of the United States. There would be new arenas, greater television exposure and sophisticated marketing. Bettman, a protege of N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern, had helped oversee pro basketball's extraordinary growth. He wanted to follow that model. 
 Many of the goals in Bettman's business plan have been realized, but the sport's economic development has not always matched its geographic expansion. In recent years, the N.H.L.'s public profile has diminished while its player costs grew. To save his business from, as he put it, bleeding to death, Bettman scratched a hard line in the ice and shut down the league Sept. 15.
 He is demanding radical reform in the players' salary structure, something he did not do during collective bargaining seven years ago. Players receive about 75 percent of the N.H.L.'s revenues, league officials say, though the union disputes the figure. Bettman wants that capped at 54 percent.
 The owners need cost certainty, Bettman said, to stabilize teams' finances and to allow the game to flourish. His vision of the league's future includes building a larger fan base through high-definition television and grass-roots participation in cities where hockey has not traditionally been played. 
 The players are willing to roll back their wages by 24 percent, but they are resisting the cost certainty Bettman demands because they say it is the equivalent of a salary cap. Negotiations have broken off. The league's board of governors will meet Jan. 14, perhaps to cancel the entire season.

Gone and Not Totally Forgotten
 Even if casual sports fans barely notice the absence of hockey and its labor dispute, other leagues and people in the vast business of sports are paying close attention. 
 Marc Ganis, president of SportsCorp Limited, a sports consulting firm based in Chicago, said of Bettman: ''His entire tenure as commissioner of the N.H.L. will be judged on the next phase of the N.H.L. The negotiations and collective bargaining agreement are just one component. You have to raise hockey higher in the minds of American sports fans.''
 Regarding collective bargaining, Ganis predicted: ''You need more pain on both sides. We're not there yet. I think we are going to lose the year. I'm concerned about the market. Few people are actually paying attention to a lockout. Hockey in the American sports psyche has diminished.''
 Steve Solomon, the president of S.J.S. Sports, another consulting firm, is more optimistic. Solomon once worked for Bettman, as the N.H.L.'s executive vice president and chief operating officer from 1993 through 1998. But like Ganis, he is an independent analyst.
 Solomon said that hockey's fundamental appeal remained solid, that it would benefit from high-definition television, that expansion was wise and that Bettman was doing what was necessary to balance labor costs with revenues.
 ''Hockey is still in the upper echelon of American sports; it is still a prestige product,'' Solomon said. ''The problems will get fixed, and you will look back on this as a simple blip on the radar screen. This sport will go sailing on in a totally positive way.''
 Certainly there are healthy indicators in the league, which had grown to 30 teams by 2000, from 21 in 1991. And it is a much different league from the one Bettman took over; the N.H.L. had 24 teams in the 1992-93 season.

Expansion Has Consequences
 During that season, the league still had a team in Winnipeg, which played beneath a large portrait of Queen Elizabeth, and another in Quebec City, where the fans spoke French. Hartford had a franchise, and some teams still played in small, old arenas.
 The teams in Winnipeg, Quebec and Hartford moved -- to Phoenix, Denver and Raleigh, N.C. Six new teams were created, generating $420 million in expansion fees for owners and 120 jobs for players. Revenues increased, according to the N.H.L., to $2.083 billion last season, from $732 million in 1993-94.
 Most teams now play in new arenas with luxury suites. With more teams in southern and western cities in the United States and with conferences named after regions instead of the Prince of Wales, the league standings look more like the N.B.A.'s.
 So does the show itself, with loud music throughout the games and lights flashing amid explosions during pregame introductions. Craig Leipold, the owner of the Nashville Predators, said in an e-mail message, ''Expansion has been a success from several perspectives.''
 The Predators, who joined the league in 1998, say they have begun to build a market. Attendance averaged 13,157 last season in their 17,113-seat arena, and the Predators made the playoffs for the first time. Leipold noted that Tampa Bay, an expansion team established in 1992, won the Stanley Cup last spring, and that support had been ''unbelievable'' for expansion teams in St. Paul and in Columbus, Ohio.
 ''I'm bullish on the game,'' Leipold said. ''Under the right economic system, yes, I'd do it again. Our team and market is ready to take off.''
 But the value and the marketability of franchises are problematic in many cities, even for strong operations that have established roots, have had success and have sold seats. One example is the Dallas Stars, who moved from Minnesota in 1993 and won the Cup in 1999.
 Jim Lites, the president of the Stars, said in a telephone interview last week from Texas that the Stars' annual revenue grew in a decade to $94 million, from $18.3 million.
 Forbes magazine valued the Stars at $259 million, fourth highest in the N.H.L. Lites said that despite all this, Tom Hicks, the team's owner, ''couldn't get a sniff'' when he tried to sell the team two years ago. One problem, Lites said, is a payroll of $64 million.
 ''This is a broken business model,'' Lites said. ''But I don't think things are as bleak as everybody paints them. I'm not here to preach. That's Gary's job.'' 
 Lites says Bettman receives too much criticism, particularly from Bob Goodenow, the executive director of the N.H.L. Players' Association.
 Bettman has changed N.H.L. management, Lites said. ''Gary has made us more of a business,'' he said. ''Gary runs it and tells us how we're doing.''
 Some people are concerned about the sport's long-term health. They worry that the league expanded too quickly; that old rivalries were diluted; that the N.H.L. sacrificed franchises in Canadian cities, where hockey is an integral part of the culture, for warm-weather cities where passion for the game is limited. And some analysts say the hope of a lucrative television contract in the United States, like those enjoyed by professional football, basketball and baseball, was probably unrealistic.
 Ganis, the sports consultant, said he had seen the financial records of 10 N.H.L. teams in the Bettman era, including some that have filed for bankruptcy, and he concurred with Bettman's assertion that a number of teams were losing money.
 ''I don't think Gary has a choice,'' Ganis said. ''I don't think the players understand how little latitude he has.''
 He said banks were reluctant to lend teams money, which diminishes the value of franchises and makes them hard to sell.
 Sal Galatioto, an investment banker with Lehman Brothers, is trying to sell the Anaheim Mighty Ducks for the Walt Disney Company. ''There are several bidders, believe it or not,'' he said.
 One offer, according to at least two published reports, was for $50 million, the same amount Disney paid as the expansion fee for the franchise, which began play in 1993-94.
 ''If they stay out for a year or two,'' Galatioto said, ''the real danger is that people may not come back. You may have cost certainty and a diminished fan base.''

Not the First Time
 The league had another lockout under Bettman, in 1994; it ended after 103 days. That collective bargaining agreement was extended by Bettman in 1997. 
 ''In retrospect, it was a mistake,'' he said of the extension, which expired this year. ''The union was very good at pushing their foot on the accelerator.''
 Player salaries have increased from an average of $558,000 in Bettman's first season (1993-94) to $1.83 million last season. 
 Another way to measure the league's standing is television, the store window of sports and the standard by which most leagues are perceived. In a pact announced last spring, the N.H.L. will have less exposure on ESPN and ESPN2, and its rights fees were decreased to a little more than half of the $120 million a year it previously received.
 The televising of most games of the Stanley Cup finals will move to NBC, from ABC, in a revenue-sharing partnership that does not guarantee a profit. ''People say, 'You're getting nothing,''' Bettman said of the deal with NBC. ''We're not getting nothing. We have a partnership. Time will tell.''
 Ken Schanzer, the president of NBC Universal Sports, said NBC was ideal for the N.H.L. because it promoted leagues. He also recalled talking with an ambitious and optimistic Bettman when he became the N.H.L. commissioner.
 ''I gave him my sense that hockey would have to grow slowly,'' Schanzer said. ''There's not as much ice in the United States as there is in Canada.''
 Many players, who have benefited greatly from expansion of their job market, are harsh in assessing Bettman's stewardship.
 Bill Guerin of the Dallas Stars, a vice president of the players union, recalled the mood in the summer of 1994, before a lockout began that September. The Rangers had just won the Cup for the first time since 1940. Bettman had just signed a deal with the Fox network and its glowing puck.
 ''Hockey was really starting to take off,'' Guerin said. ''It was at its all-time high in popularity. TV was going better. Everything was going well. Since then, it's been in a consistent decline.'' 
 Is it fair to blame Bettman? ''It's never just one man,'' Guerin said, ''but he's running it.''
 Bryan McCabe, the player representative for the Toronto Maple Leafs, said that Bettman ''knows nothing about hockey -- he's a basketball guy,'' The Toronto Sun reported. 
 Bettman dismissed such comments as ''one of the oldest tactics in collective bargaining.'' 
 ''I'm not here to win a popularity contest,'' he said. 
 Might he win the labor struggle? After the last lockout, Bettman appeared to have prevailed, but salaries increased rapidly anyway. This time, Bettman may have the edge, according to some people outside the combat.
 Marvin Miller, the former executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association, said he was amazed when the union offered a 24 percent salary rollback on Dec. 9, along with other concessions. ''You're dealing with a power play initiated by the owners, and it looks to be highly successful,'' Miller said.
 Bettman has often said that he does not plan to declare an impasse, but he has not ruled it out, either. 
 When asked whether the league would be damaged permanently by a shutdown for a full season, Bettman said that it would be painful, but that the N.H.L. would emerge stronger.
 ''It will have to be a period of regrowth,'' he said. ''Our fans will respond, and the game will ultimately be back better than ever.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Bettman has more than a little labor dispute on his hands. (Photo by Walter Tychnowicz/Associated Press)(pg. D1)
 Gary Bettman was N.H.L. commissioner for the lockout in 1994, which was settled after 103 days. This lockout is now in Day 103. (Photo by Mike Cassese/Reuters)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (60%) Hockey, Ice; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%) National Hockey League Players Assn

PERSON: Joe Lapointe; Gary (Comr) Bettman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



603 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/COLLECTING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Dodge Charger, a Name of Many Shapes

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
ANGRY letters have been deluging DaimlerChrysler headquarters in Michigan ever since the company announced in October that it would bring back the Charger nameplate for a 2006 Dodge. 
 The reason for the outcry is that the revered model name will be affixed to four- door sedans, an affront to purists who say it should be reserved for two-door coupes, where it was first used four decades ago. The revived Charger will make its debut next month at the Detroit auto show.
 Trevor Creed, senior vice president for design at Chrysler, said that public response to the name's new use has been ''almost unanimously negative.'' At Car and Driver magazine, where letters to the editor on such controversies usually trickle in, the flow has become ''a torrent, running 30-to-1 against'' Dodge's decision, said Steve Spence, the managing editor. 
 Oddly, Mr. Creed points out, many of those complaining ask why Dodge did not put its well-regarded Charger design study of 1999 into production -- a car that was, in fact, a four-door.
 But what defines the true Charger? Must it be a Hemi-powered, four-on-the-floor brute like the memorable models of 1960's? 
 Dodge produced Chargers, always in coupe form, from 1966-78 and again from 1982-87. During those model runs, the designers proved there is more than one way to skin a coupe. The Charger's body took the form of a fastback, a notchback, a hatchback and a Chrysler Cordoba knockoff. 
 It was a rear-wheel-drive car and a front-driver, a full-size car and a compact econobox. It was powered by behemoth V-8's and timid 4-cylinders and even the almost-indestructible Slant 6. The car also had a brief run as a turbocharged pocket rocket. 
 Perhaps no other model in automotive history, except for the Ford Thunderbird, has endured such an identity crisis.
 Dodge used the Charger name on two design studies in the 1960's. The Charger II of 1965, a large coupe with an extended fastback roofline, was well-received on the auto-show circuit. With few changes, the shape was rushed into production as a 1966 model to compete with the wildly popular Ford Mustang. A variation of the comparatively dowdy Coronet, it had hidden headlights, four bucket seats and was available with the 426-cubic-inch Hemi engine.
 Despite a late introduction, more than 37,000 of the '66 models were sold. Sales collapsed in '67 -- to fewer than half as many -- but fortunately a handsome redesign was already in the works. 
 The second-generation Charger, introduced for 1968, is the one most prized by collectors. The car's distinctive Coke-bottle contours were drawn while Bill Brownlie was in charge of the Dodge studio, but Richard Sias, a former General Motors stylist, is generally credited as the actual designer. Mr. Sias's design, done during lunch breaks and after-hours apart from his regular assignments on the Dart, almost didn't see the light of day; only a timely intervention by Elwood Engle, Chrysler's vice president for styling, saved it.
 The Charger underwent few changes through the 1968-70 model years. During that era it gained a reputation as one of the most virile of all muscle cars, but in fact most Chargers were powered by small V-8's. Hemi engines, advertised as producing 425 horsepower and 490 pounds-feet of torque, never sold in large numbers, for reasons that included bare-bones warranty coverage and rapidly escalating insurance costs for performance models. And the Hemi sometimes had a fussy temperament.
 The Hemi engine was an expensive option, too, adding nearly a third to the car's cost. The rarity of factory-built Hemi Chargers -- which has sent values over six figures for some examples -- has resulted in the assembly of many ''clones'' by fitting base models with replacement engines. 
 Charger sales took off in 1968, to 74,886. The 1969 models were only slightly changed, but Dodge added two aerodynamically enhanced versions for Nascar racing: the Charger 500, with a smoother installation of the grille and rear window, and the Charger Daytona, one of the most outlandish models of the muscle car era, with its 18-inch extended nose up front and a sky-high wing at the rear. The Daytonas were so impractical and hard to sell that many ended up being converted back to ''normal'' Chargers. 
 The third-generation Charger arrived in 1971 as a somewhat bloated coupe with a more conservative roofline -- but they sold well. Production of the 426 Hemi ceased after that year, in anticipation of impending fuel regulations. Tightening exhaust emissions standards also began to put a chokehold on the 440 Magnum engine, which was gradually detuned from 375 horsepower down to 275 by 1974. 
 When the Charger was redesigned in 1975 as Dodge's version of the Chrysler Cordoba, the 440 was discontinued. Sales slid steadily until 1978 when the model was discontinued.
 In 1982, Dodge tried to recapture the Charger magic by sticking the name on the Omni 024 hatchback, a tepid front-drive economy car. In base trim, that Charger was propelled by a weak 2.2-liter four-cylinder. Dodge later commissioned Carroll Shelby, a racecar driver and small-scale manufacturer, to build a run of Shelby Chargers, and those garishly striped versions enjoyed a cult following. The last-generation models continued until 1987. 
 Through the Internet, fans of the econo-Chargers have found each other and engage in a lively market for vehicles and parts. Prices are still low -- running, unrestored versions can be found for less than $1,000. The cars recently earned some respect when the Charger Registry, an owners' association, added the 1982-87 models to its listings. 
 At this time, though, the registry does include the 2006 Charger among its listings.


GRAPHIC: Photos: 1969 Daytona
1966
1972
1975
 1985 Shelby (Photograph from the brochure collection of Steve Hayes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: Dodge Division of Chrysler Corp

PERSON: Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



604 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: City Sees Way to Get Mix of Homes on Brooklyn Waterfront

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Looking to address a critical shortage of housing for low- and moderate-income New Yorkers, city officials are planning to let developers put up larger buildings along the long-neglected north Brooklyn waterfront in return for setting aside up to a quarter of the apartments as lower-cost units.
 The concept, called inclusionary zoning, will face a crucial test as part of a plan that seeks to develop up to 10,300 units, most of them in one of the city's few sweeping tracts of underutilized land, two miles of the East River waterfront in Greenpoint and Williamsburg. The coastline is currently dotted with chunks of concrete, hulking factory shells and storage lots, but its stunning views of Manhattan and proximity to trendy residential areas have made it a prized trophy for developers.
 Under an enormous rezoning plan, now under public review, more than 350 acres would be turned into a lively mix of light industry, commerce and housing in low and midsize buildings, with tall residential towers, an aquatics center, parks and a landscaped public esplanade overlooking the river. 
 In recent rezoning efforts, the Bloomberg administration has come under intense pressure to include lower-cost housing in areas where it allows new development, and community groups have accused it of lagging on this front. To spur the construction of such housing, city officials have now embraced the idea of offering developers permission to build more units than would normally be allowed under zoning regulations if they set aside 15 to 25 percent of the housing for people of limited income.
 The city has flirted with inclusionary zoning in the past, creating a narrow incentive program in the late 1980's for the highest-density neighborhoods in Manhattan, but officials in the Bloomberg administration dismissed that program as ineffective because it yielded only 600 or so lower-cost apartments. More effective, they say, is a program that offers subsidies to developers of rental apartment complexes that set aside 20 percent of the units for tenants with limited incomes. But because developers have recently been shunning rental projects, that program appears to be yielding diminishing returns.
 Now, as housing officials try to meet Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's goal of creating roughly 13,000 new housing units each year, city officials are promoting inclusionary zoning as a new and potentially powerful tool to ensure that at least some of those units go to low- and moderate-income families. The city has already included a similar incentive program in its rezoning proposal for the Far West Side of Manhattan, which is before the City Council, and is planning to apply the concept to the redevelopment of parts of Chelsea.
 But the proposal for north Brooklyn is in some ways the most ambitious, and it could have sweeping consequences.
 ''It's not like there's been a huge amount of development outside of Manhattan,'' said Shaun Donovan, commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. Noting the demand for market-rate housing even in once-depressed areas like the South Bronx and Brownsville, Brooklyn, he said, ''It's time for us to look at our policies and think differently. And Greenpoint-Williamsburg is a perfect example.''

The Idea Takes Hold
 New York is far from alone in using inclusionary zoning programs to increase development of lower-cost housing. Hundreds of cities, including Boston, San Francisco and San Diego, have adopted such programs, and many others, including Los Angeles, are debating their merits. But the city's plan, if realized, would be among the most aggressive in the nation, yielding a higher percentage of apartments whose cost would be permanently lower than market rate, officials say.
 Still, some community leaders and housing advocates are skeptical that the plan will succeed because it would be voluntary for developers, and suggest that the city should be going even further.
 ''It's a good second step in that it recognizes that we need to use the rezoning to guarantee that some of the housing will be affordable,'' said Brad Lander, the director of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development and a co-author of a study on inclusionary zoning and housing opportunities. ''The concern is that it won't do enough of what it's intended to do.''
 What the overall zoning plan is intended to do is create a new community, practically from whole cloth, on the crumbling edge of the East River while preserving and amplifying the diverse mix of commerce, industry and residences that has made the area increasingly attractive to developers and others, city planning officials said.
 ''This is an opportunity to reclaim this waterfront for parks, open space and provide badly needed housing, including affordable housing,'' said Amanda M. Burden, chairwoman of the City Planning Commission, whose staff studied the area for 18 months and worked with community leaders in developing the rezoning proposal. 
 ''It's just amazing -- it's been derelict for decades, totally cut off from the community,'' she continued. She added that the plan would provide public access to a new waterfront promenade, which would be built by the developers constructing the new residences.
 Indeed, the proposal, which comes as the city is working to revive its neglected waterfronts, is one in a long line of ideas for revitalizing the former manufacturing hub. 
 Over the years, property owners have tried to develop everything from housing complexes and big-box stores to waste transfer stations and power plants, but many of those efforts were stymied by economic downturns or community opposition. At one point, city officials even suggested that the pornography displaced from Times Square should relocate to marginal neighborhoods like Greenpoint, said Kenneth K. Fisher, who represented the area in the City Council during the 1990's. 
 To planners looking at zoning maps, he added, the area appeared perfect for all manner of unpleasant uses because it was zoned for heavy manufacturing, and therefore supposedly devoid of people.
 But on the ground, things were very different, with homes and industry coexisting for a century. So even as manufacturing and waterfront activity declined throughout the city, some light industry, like custom furnishings, specialty food production or musical equipment manufacturing, thrived in Williamsburg and Greenpoint. And in the past 15 years, the neighborhoods have enjoyed a residential and commercial renaissance as people were drawn to the area in part for its ethnic mix and its proximity to Manhattan.
 As a result, Ms. Burden said, the proposed zoning map is finely drawn, block by block, to fit in with the uses that have already evolved over time. In the inland areas, she said, the plan would ''preserve both the scale of the housing and the wonderful mixed use. That's been the tradition of these neighborhoods, and that's why people love it so much, because it has that edgy mix.''
 The zoning proposal would permanently legalize many of the lofts in old manufacturing buildings that have been claimed as housing, would limit height levels for new construction in low- and mid-rise residential areas, and would preserve manufacturing in some industrial areas on the East River, along Bushwick Inlet and along Newtown Creek. The proposal would also surround low-density residential areas with mixed-use zones allowing for both residences and the kinds of creative industries that have helped rekindle the vitality of the area.
 But the most striking changes would occur at the waterfront, with 150- to 350-foot residential towers creating a varied skyline over a promenade interspersed with several new parks, one of them marked for swimming and beach volleyball competitions in the city's Olympic bid. And it is there that the city is planning to use the rezoning in largely new and untested ways: the elaborate low-cost housing program and the requirement that developers create the public esplanade at their own expense.
 It is the first time that the city has made building public waterfront access a condition of development on such a large scale, Ms. Burden said. ''It imposes a lot of costs on the development, but we think it's absolutely essential,'' she said. ''This is how we can leverage the waterfront.''

A Shifting Policy
 The inclusionary zoning program represents a departure for this administration. In 2003, when the City Planning Commission rezoned a huge stretch of Fourth Avenue in Park Slope to allow 12-story buildings along a stretch of low-rise structures, Bloomberg administration officials rejected an inclusionary zoning plan, proposed by City Councilman David Yassky and advocates like Mr. Lander, as unworkable and instead reserved $6 million to offer subsidies to developers in exchange for including low-cost units. So far, none of the developers have taken the offer, Mr. Yassky said.
 Now, with a different housing commissioner in place, the city is working with elected officials, housing advocates, community leaders and developers to fine-tune its policy, although there is still widespread disagreement over the details. 
 Under the current proposal for north Brooklyn, developers on the waterfront would be able to build about 18 percent more square footage in exchange for setting aside 15 to 25 percent of the dwellings for people with limited incomes. Depending on the dimensions of the project, that would translate into roughly 8 to 10 extra stories, and potentially hundreds of apartments. Developers would be free to choose from a range of income limits, providing apartments only for low-income residents or for a mix of low- and moderate-income residents.
 The program would also give developers a choice in how to meet the affordability requirements, either by building low-cost dwellings within their market-rate complexes, or putting them in different locations. They could opt instead to preserve existing lower-cost housing in the area by buying a building and maintaining the monthly charges. A similar, less ambitious program has been proposed for the inland areas, where there would be lower height limits.
 City officials estimate that the rezoning will yield up to 10,300 new apartments overall, with 1,600 to 2,500 being affordable to low- and moderate-income residents. Of those, officials expect 900 to 1,500 to result from the waterfront developments, 500 to 750 from publicly owned sites and 185 from new inland construction.

Forging a New Path
 The inclusionary proposal is unusual in several ways. It differs from the city's old program and the one proposed for the Far West Side of Manhattan in that developers who take advantage of it would also be eligible for other subsidy programs. And, in a departure from many other programs across the country, the lower-cost apartments would remain that way permanently. 
 Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said that some of his members have said they would take advantage of the program. Part of its attractiveness, he said, is that the city would allow ''double-dipping,'' meaning developers could take advantage of other subsidies in addition to getting the right to build more apartments. 
 But some critics say that such ''double dipping'' will leave less money available for inexpensive housing elsewhere in the city.
 They also say that the base height proposed by the city under the new zoning is already so high that the bonus formula does not necessarily guarantee a developer a more attractive package. Imposing a mandatory or more restrictive program might lower the value of the land, these critics contend, but since many of the current property owners paid so little for it, the rezoning, which would automatically increase the value of the land by increasing the size of what could be built on it, would still give them an astronomical profit.
 As the proposal -- which the community board voted against and which is currently before Borough President Marty Markowitz -- goes through the city's elaborate public review process, several of the details may change, city officials said. The City Planning Commission is scheduled to vote on it in March before it goes to the City Council for final approval.
 Still, Bloomberg administration officials argue that the structure of the program and the combination of incentives is necessary to accomplish all of the goals for the new community, including the construction of new housing and the esplanade with all of the required infrastructure, in an untested residential property market.
 ''We've got a big housing shortage in New York, period,'' said Mr. Donovan, the commissioner of housing preservation and development. ''There's been a lot of concern about density, and I understand that,'' he continued, adding that the new housing policy had helped build support for the rezoning among at least some parts of the community.
 ''As folks try to plan for and accommodate growth in the city, we need to create more units, and density is a way to get at that,'' he added. ''What we've done, I think, through this policy is to say to the community, 'You want affordable housing, you now have a stake in density, too.' The higher we're able to go to a reasonable level, the more affordable housing you're going to get.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The area of Greenpoint that would be rezoned includes the corner of Franklin Street and Meserole Avenue.
Williamsburg and Greenpoint have had a renaissance in recent years, but some sections near the waterfront have not kept pace. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 Schaefer Landing, now under construction along Kent Avenue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, will have luxury condominiums along with less expensive units. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); MAYORS (84%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (67%) Housing; Zoning; Finances; Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal; Housing

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



605 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Why Some Politicians Need Their Prisons to Stay Full

BYLINE: By BRENT STAPLES

 BODY:
The mandatory sentencing fad that swept the United States beginning in the 1970's has had dramatic consequences -- most of them bad. The prison population was driven up tenfold, creating a large and growing felon class -- now 13 million strong -- that remains locked out of the mainstream and prone to recidivism. Trailing behind the legions of felons are children who grow up visiting their parents behind bars and thinking prison life is perfectly normal. Meanwhile, the cost of building and running prisons has pushed many states close to bankruptcy -- and forced them to choose between building jails and schools.
 Seldom has a public policy done so much damage so quickly. But changes in the draconian sentencing laws have come very slowly. That is partly because the public thinks keeping a large chunk of the population behind bars is responsible for the reduced crime rates of recent years. Studies cast doubt on that theory, since they show drops in crime almost everywhere -- even in states that did not embrace mandatory minimum sentences or mass imprisonment. In addition, these damaging policies have done nothing to curb the drug trade. 
 Changing prison policy, however, is no longer a simple matter. The business of building and running the jailhouse has become a mammoth industry with powerful constituencies that favor the status quo. Prison-based money and political power have distorted the legislative landscape in ways that will be difficult to undo. 
 These problems are on vivid display in New York, which started mass imprisonment when Gov. Nelson Rockefeller persuaded the Legislature to pass the toughest drug laws in the nation at the start of an ill-starred ''war on drugs'' 30 years ago. The Rockefeller laws introduced the country to mandatory sentencing policies that barred judges from deciding who goes to jail and for how long. Instead, the laws required lengthy sentences -- 15 years to life -- for nonviolent, first-time offenders, many of whom would have received brief sentences, drug treatment or community service under previous laws. 
 Nearly all of the prisoners ended up in upstate New York, where failing farms and hollowed-out cities offered a lot of room for building. Politicians in these sparsely populated districts caught on quickly and began to lobby to have the new prisons located in their communities. As a result, nearly 30 percent of the people who were counted as moving into upstate New York during the 1990's were prison inmates. 
 The influx of inmates has brought desperately needed jobs to the region and resulted in districts whose economies revolve around prison payrolls and whose politics are dominated by the union that represents corrections officers. The inmates also helped to save political careers in areas where legislative districts were in danger of having to be merged because of shrinking populations. Inmates, as it turned out, were magically transformed into ''residents,'' thanks to a quirk in the census rules that counts them as living at their prisons. Although people sentenced under the drug laws frequently serve long sentences, many prisoners remain behind bars only briefly before returning to homes that are often hundreds of miles away. 
 Felons are barred from voting in 48 of 50 states -- including New York. Yet in New York, as in the rest of the country, disenfranchised prisoners are included in the population counts that become the basis for drawing legislative districts.
 An eye-opening analysis by Prison Policy Initiative's Peter Wagner found seven upstate New York Senate districts that meet minimal population requirements only because prison inmates are included in the count. New York is not alone. The group's researchers have found 21 counties nationally where at least 21 percent of the ''residents'' were inmates. 
 The New York Republican Party uses its majority in the State Senate to maintain political power through fat years and lean. The Senate Republicans, in turn, rely on their large upstate delegation to keep that majority. Whether those legislators have consciously made the connection or not, it's hard to escape the fact that bulging prisons are good for their districts. The advantages extend beyond jobs and political gerrymandering. By counting unemployed inmates as residents, the prison counties lower their per capita incomes -- and increase the portion they get of federal funds for the poor. This results in a transfer of federal cash from places that can't afford to lose it to places that don't deserve it.
 Lately, polls have shown growing support for drug law reform. In November, prominent New York Republicans ran into trouble when they faced candidates who made Rockefeller reform an issue. In response, the State Senate endorsed a plan that cut sentences for drug possession crimes, which was the easy part. But it stonewalled on the crucial change, which would have returned to judges the discretion to sentence at least some offenders to drug treatment instead of prison. 
 While other political forces support the mandatory sentences -- most notably the powerful local prosecutors -- prison rights advocates have recently begun to argue that prison district politicians are more concerned about keeping the prisons full than about crime. The idea of counting inmates as voters in the counties that imprison them is particularly repulsive given that inmates are nearly always stripped of the right to vote. The practice recalls the early United States under slavery, when slaves were barred from voting but counted as three-fifths of a person for purposes of apportioning representation in Congress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); SENTENCING (91%); CRIME RATES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FELONIES (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); POLITICS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (87%); LOBBYING (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (65%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Sentences (Criminal); Crime and Criminals; Prisons and Prisoners; Law and Legislation; Guards; Labor; Organized Labor; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: Brent Staples

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



606 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Montreal Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: A Twisted Sitcom Makes the Simpsons Look Like Saints

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Dec. 23 

 BODY:
In ''Les Bougon,'' Quebec's hottest television sitcom in more than a decade, members of the Bougon family feed their catatonic grandfather beer with a straw. They call their dog bin Laden. They steal from the closets of wealthy relatives and consort with a corrupt cop.
 Not to be confused with ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Les Bougon'' is more like a politically incorrect version of ''Father Knows Best,'' with twists so wicked and crude that even fans of ''The Simpsons'' might blush. Led by an unemployed, cynical father wizened to the ways of a decadent society, the Bougon family is a platoon of sociopathic mongrels. 
 Paul Bougon, an unemployed dockworker, bribes the mail carrier to keep mum about the fraudulent pension checks delivered to him every week. His daughter Dolores is a prostitute who brings her clients home. His wife, Rita, offers phone sex to groaning callers.
 The family adopts a Chinese daughter, Mao -- actually everyone but Rita thought she was a boy through the first season -- because they figured that as an Asian she would be good at technology used in computer fraud.
 The oldest son, Junior, is an expert shoplifter who steals a Jaguar to impress a woman on their first date and then, after dessert at one of Montreal's swankiest restaurants, lifts a mouse from his pocket in an effort to avert paying the bill. The black sheep of the family is Uncle Fred, because from time to time he tries to get honest work.
 Outrageous as it may be, in the second season of ''Les Bougon,'' up to two million viewers watch the half-hour show Wednesday nights -- nearly one out of every three people who live in Quebec Province. It has dominated local television awards and revived the fortunes of public television Radio-Canada.
 It is hard to imagine such a show on the air in the United States, where vulgar depictions of the poor are generally out of bounds. But here in Quebec, the province with the most generous social benefits and a place where political conservatism is rare, the show is a hit with a popularity that crosses class lines.
 For Francois Avard, 36, the show's writer, who was once arrested for stealing food at a Montreal luxury hotel during an anti-hunger demonstration, ''Les Bougon'' is not a critique of welfare cheats at all. 
 ''The message is subversive,'' he said in an interview. ''We show poor people for the first time winning; we show poor people with power. At the beginning I hoped people watching the show would go out and steal in the stores and screw with the system and cause chaos and then rebuild the system.''
 That has not happened, but cast members say people come up to them with their own pet scams all the time.
 The Bougons may be crooked, but Mr. Avard notes that they love one another and protect one another to survive in the show's depiction of a society where politicians also lie and cheat, businessmen give campaign contributions to gain tax loopholes and bureaucrats are only too happy to take bribes.
 The show's edgy satire and depiction of a poor family taking on the system seems to capture the mood in Quebec in these days of scandals, particularly one involving the Liberal government's handing out contracts to friendly Quebec advertising firms that did little work but gave the governing party big contributions. When the tabloid Journal de Montreal ran a series about corporate scandals and tax evasion early this year, they called the series ''The Real Bougons.''
 The show is so popular that the producers have dubbed two episodes in English for national broadcast next year.
 ''You learn to like the Bougons because they are taking advantage of the system we sometimes hate,'' said Annie Arsenault, 29, a fan of the show who is a benefits specialist at a Montreal consulting firm. ''They deal with the problems they have and how society treats them.''
 Yet there are critics and advocates for the poor who are concerned about what viewers will learn from the program, whatever its intentions.
 ''The thing I find dangerous is it becomes a very reactionary kind of social satire,'' said Nathalie Petrowski, an entertainment columnist at La Presse. ''Is it criticizing poor people? It is not intended that way, but it can be very confusing.''
 Eric Bondo, coordinator of the Common Front of People on Social Assistance, said, ''I'm upset because they don't think about the consequences of what they are showing.'' However, he added, ''The most intriguing thing is poor people like the show.''
 Fabienne Larouche, a co-producer of the show, shrugged off such criticism. She said ''Les Bougon''was a commentary on the shortcomings of the Quiet Revolution of the 1960's and 1970's, when Quebec's conservative society is said to have lunged toward big government programs that created more bureaucracy and corruption than benefits for the poor.
 ''When you go to the hospital, you wait 15 or 20 hours unless you know someone,'' she said. ''We are one of the most taxed people in the world, but there are two systems -- one for the rich and one for the poor.''
 The Bougon family's solidarity -- a growing theme in Quebecois television and film these days -- actually make the Bougons appear sometimes morally superior to the society outside their ratty walkup row-house apartment.
 In one episode, Paul Bougon gets angry at Dolores for her cocaine habit. ''Our only weapon against the system is our mind, and we can't mess that up with drugs,'' he screams.
 In another, the Bougons set up a local politician for blackmail by inviting him into their house and having Dolores sit on his lap half nude while Paul takes his picture. To get off the hook, the politician agrees to wash piles of dishes in their filthy kitchen.
 ''Life expectancy in this neighborhood is a dozen years below the average in this great country of ours,'' Paul tells the politician. ''So do you mind if we spend the time we have left not doing dishes?''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Monday with the Montreal Journal article about ''Les Bougon,'' a popular sitcom about a dysfunctional family, misidentified the man shown with the co-producer, Fabienne Larouche. He was Francois Avard, the show's writer, not Alain Desrochers, its director.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cast of ''Les Bougon,'' a popular Radio-Canada TV show about a dysfunctional family. Below, Fabienne Larouche, a co-producer of the show, and Alain Desrochers, its director, during an interview in Montreal. (Photo by Les Bougon)
 (Photo by Robert J. Galbraith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); FAMILY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); COMPUTER CRIME (72%); WELFARE FRAUD (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (69%); SHOPLIFTING (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%) Television

ORGANIZATION: Radio-Canada (Station)

PERSON: Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%) QUEBEC, CANADA (92%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (77%) Quebec Province (Canada); Canada

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



607 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Reality TV Turns Grimmer

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
One would think that reality television could not get more stark than the show that aired in Britain two years ago, depicting the dissection of a human cadaver as narrated by the German doctor who performed it.
 But still to come in an evolving series on Britain's edgy Channel 4 -- the same government-owned broadcaster that presented the public autopsy -- is ''Dust to Dust,'' about the ultimate mystery: The show recently began advertising for a willing volunteer to donate his or her corpse to illustrate the effects of decomposition in the foggy and damp British climate.
 ''Dust to Dust'' is just one example of how the harsh reality programming in Europe is becoming less a televised novelty and more of a gritty, unsparing guide to life's dark side. Live plastic surgery airs late at night on Britain's Channel 5. In Germany, ''Die Supermamas'' coach frantic parents on how to cope with temperamental children, and on ''Fight for Your Frau,'' errant husbands are packed off to spousal boot camp to win back the waning love of their wives. 
 But it is Channel 4 in London that has pushed reality television -- or ''factual programming'' as it is politely called in Britain -- to new extremes, even for a country that has become a furiously humming factory for new reality ideas. 
 On the station's ''Too Posh to Wash,'' hygiene coaches scout the nation for ''right royal stinkers'' nominated by friends and family members. ''Chancers'' features a Darwinian struggle of amateur British rappers dropped onto the island of Manhattan to test their mettle before hip-hop music insiders and an unforgiving public.
 Europe was the original incubator for reality television in the late 1990's, when the first version of the internationally popular game show ''Survivor'' emerged in Sweden. The concept, which pitted individuals against one another for prize money, eventually spread in 2000 to the United States. The same year, the Netherlands-based television producer Endemol sold CBS the first season of' ''Big Brother,'' in which a group of housemates was filmed interacting around the clock.
 During the most recent fall season, 492 new shows were aired in nine countries, including the United States, Germany and Britain, where reality fare represented 39 percent of all new programming, said Franck Si-Hassen, manager of the Eurodata TV unit of Mediametrie, a Paris-based firm that measures media audiences.
 The clear leader of the pack was Britain, where 111 shows were introduced. The country ranks first in part because it produces more short series of two to six episodes, compared with the long-running shows that run until midseason in most other countries, said Mr. Si-Hassen.
 ''The United Kingdom is one of the most innovative countries and creates a lot of original formats,'' Mr. Si-Hassen said. ''Many people think that the United States is one of the biggest producers of new shows because their reality shows are advertised worldwide. The reality is that the United States is often among the countries which launch the least new shows.''
 In London, real-life entertainment is having an impact on Channel 4. While the BBC's viewership plunged to record lows this December, Channel 4's audience share increased by 1.4 percentage points to 9.8 percent in the last year, largely due to programs like ''Wife Swap'' and ''How Clean is Your House?''
 The station strives to be provocative, giving conventional ideas a wrenching twist. That has prompted criticism from some of the station's former directors, who complain that the broadcaster now relies too much on reality programming, including yet another version of ''Big Brother'' that will surface after January with a house full of fading celebrities. One former station board member called the programming ''tawdry and repetitive.''
 But the station attracted a record number of prime time viewers this year, said Yvonne Taylor, a spokeswoman for Channel 4, who added that the channel now relies much less on the purchase of American exports. She said the revenues from reality television allowed the station to commission an opera for television and to air new dramas like ''Shameless,'' which Channel 4's Web site says is about ''the U.K.'s most dysfunctional family'' and is ''packed with sex, drugs, gratuitous violence, love and scams.''
 This winter Channel 4, which recently established a separate department devoted to reality programming, is twisting the concept of reality shows that give women the opportunity to select Mr. Right. Called ''Playing It Straight,'' the basic premise is to whisk one striking woman to Mexico and surround her with 10 handsome suitors for six weeks in which to pick the perfect man. At stake is a prize of $:100,000 (about $190,000) which the woman can win only by using her ''gaydar,'' as the show's developers put it, to eliminate gay contenders who feign romantic interest.
 Programs like these and ''Dust to Dust'' put the broadcaster ''at the sharp edge of the debate about Channel 4's role as a public service broadcaster,'' Simon Andreae, head of science at Channel 4, wrote in a column explaining the idea. ''We are supposed to take risks. We exist to break new ground and to drive the national debate. But slicing open the human body and watching flesh decay -- is this perhaps a step too far?''
 That is an open question. The station named Richard Shepherd, a senior forensic pathologist, as the project consultant and said his job was to coordinate a team of scientists who would design and supervise the experiment, to be conducted in a secret location. The aim: to explore the decomposition process and give forensic pathologists insight into how to estimate the precise time of death. 
 Last week, Channel 4 said Dr. Shepherd had begun work and that about 30 potential volunteers had contacted the station for interviews. But reached at his office, Dr. Shepherd said he was no longer involved with the program. ''My role was a consultant to support administrators who were looking into this,'' he said. ''My role was overemphasized.'' However, he added that he supported the concept because ''it is a way of getting the research done.'' 
 In some cases, viewers themselves end up imposing limits on the extremes that reality series reach for, said Mr. Si-Hassen of Eurodata TV. If humiliation levels are too high, people lose interest, he said, noting the tepid ratings for shows last year like ''Exhausted'' in France and Britain, and ''Masterplan,'' another Endemol show, in the Netherlands. ''Exhausted'' follows contestants who compete for cash while staying awake for as long as possible; ''Masterplan'' trails people who agree to turn over daily decisions to a master.
 ''In the fall, we didn't see truly humiliating shows, but maybe some German viewers considered 'Fight for Your Frau!' too humiliating for men,'' Mr. Si-Hassen said, adding that the show drew few viewers.
 Sometimes televisions stations themselves set the limits. Earlier this summer, Endemol, which produced Channel 5's ''Cosmetic Surgery Live,'' announced plans to create a reality format called ''Sperm Race'' or ''Make Me a Mum.'' The idea was to pit men against each other to determine who had the most potent sperm to make a number of childless women pregnant. The prize was a race car.
 Endemol had pushed the idea to close deals in Germany, Britain and the United States quickly. But a company spokeswoman said last week that no deals were currently under discussion.


GRAPHIC: Photos: On ''Die Supermamas,'' a German reality series with a harsh edge, parents are given strategies for managing their children. (Photo by RTL2)
 On ''Chancers,'' Fatman Scoop is mentor to amateur British rappers in New York. (Photo by Channel 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); AUTOPSIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (68%); RAP MUSIC (63%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (53%) Television; Television and Radio Programming

COMPANY: MEDIAMETRIE SA (81%); ENDEMOL NV (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Channel 4 (GB)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Doreen Carvajal

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); SWEDEN (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Great Britain; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



608 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: The Future of Medical Malpractice

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Debate on Malpractice Looms for Senate'' (news article, Dec. 20):
 The insurance, drug, nursing home, H.M.O. and medical industries want to take away the legal rights of the patients most seriously injured by medical malpractice. They try to trivialize as ''pain and suffering'' the so-called noneconomic damages, which they seek to limit with a one-size-fits-all cap regardless of the facts of the case or the extent of the injuries. They don't trust juries to hear the facts and decide.
 Economic damages merely reimburse a person injured through no fault of her own for her out-of-pocket expenses like medical and funeral expenses and lost wages. Noneconomic damages are the only compensation a jury may provide for actual life-altering injuries like blindness, paraplegia, loss of limbs, loss of fertility, gross disfigurement, the death of a child or the abuse of a parent in a nursing home. These are anything but trivial or frivolous injuries.

Todd Smith
President, Association
of Trial Lawyers of America
Washington, Dec. 20, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (92%); DAMAGES (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); LAWYERS (88%); LITIGATION (78%); PARALYSIS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHILDREN (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (71%) Medicine and Health; Malpractice; Insurance; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR JUSTICE (59%) Association of Trial Lawyers of America

PERSON: Todd Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



609 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Despite Wal-Mart's Edict, Radio Tags Will Take Time

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
A year and a half ago, Wal-Mart served notice that it expected its top 100 suppliers to be shipping goods to it with new radio tagging technology by Jan. 1, 2005.
 While it may still be true, as the saying goes, that the best way to predict the future is to create it, Wal-Mart's experience so far has served as a reminder that creating the future is not all that easy. 
 With Jan. 1 just days away, the technology is not yet ready to meet the needs of either Wal-Mart or its suppliers. The tags, which are typically about the size of a credit card and contain an antenna and microchip encased in plastic, receive query signals from scanning devices called readers. Using the energy captured from those signals, they broadcast a snippet of code identifying the goods to which they are attached. 
 To date, most of Wal-Mart's suppliers have not figured out inexpensive ways to automate the printing and application of the tags. Although read rates are improving, no one who uses the technology has systems that can reliably read the information 100 percent of the time in factories, warehouses and stores; Wal-Mart said the rate was around 60 percent in its stores.
 Nor is the data currently integrated well enough with other technology to initiate changes in manufacturing or shipping schedules that could actually save the large sums of money that would make the investment worthwhile. 
 ''The progress has been much slower than many people anticipated, and in some cases it's stalled,'' said Andrew Macey, vice president of the Sapient Corporation, a technology consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.
 Wal-Mart's official position is that it is working closely with suppliers, meeting its goals and learning valuable lessons that will pay off as the technology continues to roll out. But analysts who regularly survey major consumer goods companies said that most participants were cooperating with Wal-Mart out of fear of offending the retailer and were, as much as possible, putting off investments in the technology.
 ''The big manufacturing companies have advocates for the technology who are very positive, but the people on the floor who are implementing it are much more negative,'' Kara Romanow, an analyst at AMR Research, said. 
 Wal-Mart's goal was to wring billions of dollars from the supply chain by using the tags to keep shelves filled with whatever consumers were buying, cut back on shipments of other goods and combat theft.
 The mandate was soon defined in narrower, more practical terms as supplying tagged cartons and pallets, not individual items, to a limited number of stores through just three Texas distribution centers by the Jan. 1 deadline. 
 Wal-Mart said recently that more than 100 suppliers would be tagging bulk shipments to the three Texas centers next month. But only 40 will be tagging everything they send. Of the remainder, two have been so tied up in a complete overhaul of their entire information technology infrastructure that they have put off attempting to introduce radio tagging. Some suppliers will be tagging as little as 2 percent of the goods going to the centers. 
 ''We think the average supplier will be tagging about 65 percent of the volume they ship to the three centers,'' Linda Dillman, the chief information officer of Wal-Mart, said.
 AMR, the research firm, said it had found that companies were investing $1 million to $3 million to comply with Wal-Mart's program, far less than the $13 million to $23 million that AMR had estimated in August would be needed for fully integrated systems that generated useful data.
 Some companies delayed getting started for so long that they are now having trouble getting tags, according to the analysts and Wal-Mart. That problem is expected to recede next year as tag manufacturers expand their production lines. An important stimulant to that came last week, when a next-generation standard for tags and readers was ratified by EPCglobal, a nonprofit industry group. Heavyweights like Texas Instruments and Philips that had not made the first-generation tags plan to enter the market with the newer technology.
 Although the progress has been slow, it has an air of inevitability. Radio tagging, known as RFID (for radio frequency identification), has been spreading through the economy for decades in applications like automated toll collection, tracking tags for animals and wireless cards controlling access to buildings.
 But the technology was not widely publicized until Wal-Mart announced its deadline. Subsequent decisions by other merchants like Target, Albertsons, and Best Buy to push for radio tagging made it unmistakable which way the wind was blowing, at least among retailers. 
 The movement toward radio tags on consumer products gathered momentum when the Defense Department also set a Jan. 1, 2005, deadline for its major suppliers of a broad range of general merchandise and endorsed the tag and scanner standards being developed by a consortium of retailers and major suppliers like Procter & Gamble and Hewlett-Packard.
 In addition, drug companies are expanding pilot projects of applying radio tags to pharmaceutical shipments. The Food and Drug Administration has set 2007 as its goal for general use of the technology. Separately, Boeing and Airbus are working together on standards for tagging the 5,000 or so aircraft parts that are most frequently handled by airline maintenance crews. 
 Wal-Mart and other retailers, and many manufacturers, are excited about the technology because the tags can store more information than bar codes, and large numbers of them can be scanned at one time. In addition to its top 100 suppliers, Wal-Mart is working with 38 others that have volunteered to be in the first wave of vendors complying with its mandate.
 But the pilot testing this year has offered evidence that, before most businesses can justify big investments in the technology, its costs must fall sharply and the scanners must be able to read tags faster and in more varied conditions. To drive down costs, manufacturers want the recently adopted American standards to be made compatible with those being developed elsewhere. 
 Still, if the size of the challenge became apparent in 2004, so were the ways in which it could be tackled. Wal-Mart and others say that, in 2005, not only will tagging be expanded, but there will also be a sharp increase in the testing of software and business strategies that use the data captured from the tags. 
 ''Companies understand what RFID can do,'' said Marco Ziegler, a partner at Accenture. ''Now, they will find more opportunities to make it pay.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In radio frequency identification tags like this one, microchips are affixed to product boxes with labels for shipping. (Photo by Intermec Technologies)
 A warehouse worker uses a radio frequency identification reader to check inventory. The technology has a spotty track record. (Photo by Zebra Technologies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); BULK SHIPPING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (54%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sensor Networks ; Radio; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); SAPIENT CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); SAPE (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS928120 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (66%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: Barnaby J Feder

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



610 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: For a Critic, Libya's Nascent Openness Doesn't Apply

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: TRIPOLI, Libya 

 BODY:
Few people dare cross the aging army colonel who runs this repressive oil patch, but Fathi al-Jahmi is one. 
 Interviewed on an Arabic satellite television station shortly after his release from prison in March, Mr. Jahmi, a balding, grandfatherly engineer and longtime critic of the government, minced no words, calling Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi a war criminal and a terrorist. 
 Mr. Jahmi was arrested again the next day and has not been heard from since. 
 Libya may be back on the Western diplomatic circuit -- a handful of European leaders have visited the onetime rogue state this year, and the United States is planning to reopen an embassy here -- but it remains a tightly controlled country that brooks no dissent. 
 There are small signs of change, indications that Mr. Jahmi's lonely voice of criticism may soon be joined by others. For now, though, the elaborate security apparatus that has long silenced political opposition and kept Colonel Qaddafi in power is still going about the business of tracking and, if necessary, punishing critics. 
 It has been that way since a spate of executions and disappearances decades ago convinced most people that it was best to play along.
 Mr. Jahmi was one of those, for a while. Trained as a civil engineer, he ran a major construction company in the early years of Colonel Qaddafi's rule and eventually became a provincial official. He quit in 1973 to start his own business, but it was nationalized a few years later. After that he became a burr in Colonel Qaddafi's blanket, writing letters to President Ronald Reagan and publicly complaining about the government.
 In October 2002, he took the microphone at a Basic People's Conference in the Manshia district of Tripoli. The assemblies are supposed to be the building blocks of what Colonel Qaddafi calls direct democracy, the means by which the Libyan people assert their power. But a web of laws and decrees and organizations intended to ''protect the revolution'' prevents any serious expression of opposition.
 Mr. Jahmi called for free elections, for a free press and for abandoning ''The Green Book'' -- Colonel Qaddafi's answer to Mao's ''Little Red Book'' -- a rambling treatise that serves as a guide to how Libya is governed. He was arrested on charges of defaming Colonel Qaddafi and inciting domestic conflicts, and sentenced to seven years in prison.
 He is not alone. Human rights organizations and Libyan dissident groups outside the country say dozens of Qaddafi critics are languishing behind bars, including more than 80 university professors who have called for democracy and the rule of law. Some are reported to be on death row.
 The government argues that Mr. Jahmi simply broke the law, but human rights advocates say the laws are written ambiguously enough to ensnare anyone whom the government wishes to silence. 
 Still, the status quo is being subtly challenged here. As Libya reopens its doors to the West, fresh economic opportunities are offering some Libyans a measure of independence, while contact with Westerners is encouraging others to voice their thoughts more openly. 
 Some critics evidently feel emboldened by the closer diplomatic ties and fresh foreign investment that are increasing pressure on the government to answer allegations of human rights abuses.
 A campaign to free Mr. Jahmi, for example, came to the attention of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, who pressed Mr. Jahmi's case with Colonel Qaddafi when he visited Tripoli in March. Mr. Jahmi was released less than two weeks later.
 By then he had become something of a cause celebre in the Libya-watching world, and Western as well as Arab journalists soon contacted him, eager to hear an alternative political voice within the country.
 He gave interviews to the American-financed Arabic satellite television station, Al Hurra, and the Dubai-based satellite television station, Al Arabiya. It was on Al Arabiya that Mr. Jahmi made his most damning remarks about Colonel Qaddafi. The broadcast reached people across the Arab world, including many in Libya. Talk of the remarkable outburst quickly spread.
 ''Many people heard this, and it made Mr. Jahmi famous,'' said a Libyan man who asked not to be identified. 
 That night, a group of demonstrators marched to Mr. Jahmi's house, threatening to kill him. Several Libyans, including one who saw the group, said it was almost certainly organized by the security services or the feared Revolutionary Committees charged with protecting the revolution. The committees, whose power has waned in recent years, at one time carried out extrajudicial killings of government opponents. 
 Mr. Jahmi was slightly injured in an ensuing confrontation and retreated inside his house until security service agents entered the four-story building and took him, his wife and one of his sons away. His wife and son were released in September and November, respectively, but Mr. Jahmi's whereabouts are unknown.
 At Mr. Jahmi's house on El Dol Street in southern Tripoli on a recent day, two well-groomed internal security agents sat outside, one in a car and the other on a chair beside the open front gate.
 They turned a visiting reporter away. A heavyset man named Kamal, who runs a cellphone shop across the street, said he had heard that the family had moved to Benghazi. ''There's only the security people there now,'' he said.
 Mr. Jahmi's brother, Mohamed Eljahmi, said by telephone from Chelmsford, Mass., that the house had been confiscated.
 Mr. Qaddafi's son, Seif el-Islam, who is the point man on many Libyan issues of interest to the West, said in an interview that Mr. Jahmi was being held for his own protection after ''insulting the leader.''
 But, later, the young Mr. Qaddafi said through a spokesman that Mr. Jahmi had broken the law by ''conspiring with and transferring information to foreign countries and making agreements with foreign elements'' concerning Libya's internal affairs.
 ''He started talking to some elements in the United States and was organizing and working with them,'' the spokesman quoted the young Mr. Qaddafi as saying. That may be a reference to Mr. Jahmi's conversations with his brother, who heads the Libyan American Freedom Association, an opposition group in the United States. 
 The younger Mr. Qaddafi said through his spokesman that a human rights organization would soon be allowed to visit Mr. Jahmi to ensure that he was in good health.
 ''H.R.W. is organizing with the American government and this will assure you that we don't have anything to hide,'' Mr. Qaddafi's spokesman quoted him as saying, apparently referring to the advocacy group, Human Rights Watch, which is based in New York.
 Mr. Jahmi's brother said there was a law that made it illegal for Libyan citizens to give interviews to foreign broadcast media without government permission. He said the charge of conspiracy might also relate to his own contact with Mr. Jahmi because of his involvement in the opposition group. But he insisted that Mr. Jahmi had done nothing to merit imprisonment.
 ''He spoke of voices within the Libyan nationalist movement, and they want democratic reforms, but there were no plans to do anything,'' the brother said.
 Fred Abrahams, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch, said a team was set to go to Libya earlier in December but the country never issued the necessary visas. ''The trip was canceled, but we are still trying,'' he said. ''If they do want us to come, we're ready to get on a plane tomorrow.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fathi al-Jahmi has not been heard from in about nine months. (Photo by Mohamed Eljahmi) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); PRISONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); LIBEL & SLANDER (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); ARRESTS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); POLITICS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of Speech and Expression; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; United States Foreign Service; Foreign Investments

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) Craig S Smith; Muammar El- (Col) Qaddafi; Joseph R Jr (Sen) Biden; Fathi Al- Jahmi

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (88%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%) Libya; Tripoli (Libya); Libya

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



611 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plan Could Imperil Tax Write-Off For New York

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
As the Bush administration looks to revamp the tax code, New York officials say they are particularly worried about one idea being considered: eliminating the federal deduction for state and local taxes. 
 If the president pursues this plan, New York State would lose about $37 billion per year in federal tax deductions, more than almost any other state, according to Internal Revenue Service data. The change would affect about 3.2 million households in New York, three-quarters of which are middle- and low-income, tax records indicate.
 ''This change would be one of the worst things for New York to came out of Washington in a long time,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer. ''But if they take this route they can expect a serious fight.'' 
 With a 7.7 percent maximum state income tax rate, the second-highest in the country behind California's 9.3 percent, New York would be especially affected because its residents use those taxes to take large federal deductions. About 38 percent of households in New York file for some sort of federal deduction of state and local taxes.
 New York City residents, who also pay city income taxes, would be especially hard hit as they could expect an 11 percent increase in the amount they pay the I.R.S., or an increase of about $3.4 billion, said Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the city's Independent Budget Office.
 Beyond New York, eliminating the federal deduction for state and local taxes would also affect residents in New Jersey and Connecticut. Among the state and local taxes that could no longer be claimed as a deduction would be property taxes, which are particularly high in the New York City region. 
 Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said it was too early to discuss specific plans. ''The president has yet to appoint the panel that will review the tax code and make recommendations on how it can be made simpler, fairer and more pro-growth,'' she said. ''Until then, he will not rule any options in or out.'' The president will appoint the panel before the New Year, she added.
 But Mr. Schumer said that the administration was already considering certain approaches. ''Every plan that I've heard discussed so far by the administration includes the elimination or curtailment of state and local deductibility,'' he said. ''This is definitely something they are already thinking about.''
 Tax experts say that the reason for such a change would be to offset the cost of certain tax cuts that the White House hopes to make in areas like savings and investment. 
 Max B. Sawicky, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute, said that eliminating state and local deductions would also enable the administration to adjust the alternative minimum tax, which was created in 1969 to ensure that the wealthy are not able to avoid paying income taxes by taking large deductions. Since this tax is not indexed for inflation, it has increasingly engulfed larger numbers of people. The administration wants to either eliminate or adjust the tax so that fewer people have to pay it each year, a change that could benefit New Yorkers, whose average incomes are much higher than in most other states. 
 Currently, the alternative minimum tax affects about the top 3 percent of taxpayers in the country. If it is not adjusted it will cover the top 15 percent of taxpayers within 10 years, Mr. Sawicky said.
 Changing the alternative minimum tax would cost the federal government at least $400 billion over 10 years, Mr. Sawicky said, which is roughly the same amount of revenue that would be produced by repealing the state and local tax deduction. 
 But any change to these deductions would likely face strong opposition. ''We'll fight this to the death,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee. ''Just like last time, we will mobilize the business community, labor, property owners and everyone else in the state because in New York this is about our financial lifeblood.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg also warned of the economic consequences of such changes.
 ''New York City is the economic engine of our country and we already send $11.5 billion more to Washington annually than we get back,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in a written statement. ''This would amount to another federal tax on our citizens and I will fight it tooth and nail.''
 The last time the White House pushed a similar proposal to repeal state and local deductions was in 1986 as part of President Ronald Reagan's sweeping tax overhaul. That plan was defeated after fervent opposition in Congress.
 ''Gov. Mario Cuomo practically camped out in front of the White House on this issue last time,'' Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said. ''We did it before and we'll do it again.''
 Mr. Schumer added that there was one important difference now from prior years: New York and California, which would be hardest hit, both have Republican governors. ''This could certainly work in our favor this time,'' he said.
 Todd Alhart, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki, would not comment on the possibility of a repeal of local and state deductions. But he emphasized that the president and the governor had already delivered large tax cuts that he said had helped improve the economy and create jobs for New Yorkers.
 ''Since taking office, President Bush has delivered $36 billion in federal income tax cuts to the people of New York, $15 billion of them for New York City taxpayers,'' he said. ''Moving forward, we expect that President Bush will continue his strong tax cutting record for the citizens of this state and all Americans.''
 Pamela F. Olson, a former assistant treasury secretary for tax policy under President Bush, said, ''There is a basic issue of fairness at stake here.'' States with higher deductions end up paying far less in federal taxes than the states with lower deductions, she said.
 But for New York, the repercussions of repealing the deductions would be huge. Around 2.5 million New York households with incomes under $100,000 take federal deductions for state and local taxes. On average, these households would lose the ability to deduct about $5,600 per year. 
 People in the highest income brackets would also shoulder a significant burden. About 219,000 households in the state with income of more than $200,000 take federal deductions for state and local taxes. These households would lose the ability to deduct about $67,400 on average per year.
 Other states would also be hit, especially those with higher average incomes that tend to be Democratic-leaning states. ''I think the administration is very aware that it's the blue states that this would most affect,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
 Nationally, the deduction for state and local taxes is one of the largest types of deductions that people take. For the 2002 fiscal year, the most recent year for which data is available, these deductions amounted to about $309 billion nationwide. The deduction for mortgage interest was about $337 billion for that same year. Deductions for charitable contributions amounted to about $139 billion, according to I.R.S. data.
 New York officials also worry that the change could lead taxpayers, newly burdened with the added expense of lost deductions, to demand lower local and state taxes. 
 For some, that is just the point. ''If you believe, as I do, that the state and local deductions encourage higher spending in states,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a domestic policy adviser to Ronald Reagan and a treasury official for the first President Bush, ''then abolishing the deduction will help bring this spending down and will also cause people to demand lower taxation.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a Bush administration plan to eliminate the deduction for state and local taxes on federal tax returns misstated the reason California and New York would be the states hardest hit. They rank first and second in the dollar amount of such deductions, not because of their income tax rates. (In 2002, the last year for which government statistics are available, Californians claimed $52 billion, and New Yorkers $37 billion.) The article also misidentified the two states with the highest maximum income tax rates. As of this year, they are Montana, at 11 percent, and Vermont, 9.5 percent, not California (9.3) and New York (7.7). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%) Taxation; Minimum Tax; Tax Deductions; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Ian Urbina; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004



612 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Big Battle for a Small Lot in New Haven

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Dec. 23 

 BODY:
It is a small vacant lot, but it has caused more trouble than some of the city's biggest land deals. 
 Charles Gargano, a longtime New Haven police officer, asked the city last winter about buying the lot for $55,000 so he could build a home for himself on a street where his family arrived 85 years ago. 
 For a while, the city was helping him get the required approvals. But last month, a city board rejected his proposal after heated objections by Lawrence C. Moon Jr., local businessman and supporter of the Democratic mayor, John DeStefano Jr. Mr. Moon wants to build a parking lot there instead. 
 Now the battle over the lot at 9-11 Brown Street in Wooster Square, an area familiarly known as New Haven's Little Italy, is raising questions about political favoritism at the city's Livable City Initiative, an agency that promotes home ownership and economic development in neighborhoods with blighted properties.
 The program, created in 1996, has reduced the number of vacant buildings in New Haven to 400 from 1,400 and is one of the mayor's signature programs. He often cites its success as he seeks the 2006 Democratic nomination for governor.
 This is not the first time questions of favoritism have arisen at Livable City.
 The program nearly foundered in 1998 after the F.B.I. investigated its loans to a top DeStefano aide and other insiders. No charges were brought, but the mayor cleaned house. Last month, the program was praised by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development for the way it spent its share of the city's $7.6 million in federal housing money.
 Still, critics complain that the agency's administrators, appointed by the mayor, still have too much discretion and secrecy in deciding who can buy surplus city properties. The agency does not publish its full list of available properties, as required by its own guidelines, because officials there say it would be too burdensome to its staff.
 ''A lot of politics comes into play,'' said Jacqueline James, an alderwoman and Democrat. ''They say who can and who can't buy.'' 
 Critics say the dispute over the 60-by-117-foot lot on Brown Street is a case in point, though Andrew J. Rizzo Jr., Livable City's executive director, said politics played no role in the decision. ''No one gets favorable treatment,'' he said.
 Mr. Gargano first approached Livable City about buying the lot in January after the city foreclosed on it, but he was told that someone else had placed a deposit on it, he said. After protesting that the lot had never been advertised for sale, he was allowed to bid and offered $55,000 in March. 
 City officials say that until Mr. Gargano appeared, they were negotiating privately to sell the lot to Mr. Moon for $50,000, though no deposit was ever taken. In an application dated Feb. 9, Mr. Moon said he needed the lot to create 18 more parking spaces for C. Cowles & Company, his adjacent manufacturing business.
 The local alderman, Michael B. Smart, backed Mr. Gargano and says Mr. Moon's political support for the mayor doomed Mr. Gargano's proposal. He said that when he proposed holding a community meeting to hear what neighbors had to say, Mr. Moon objected and told him a meeting was not necessary because he was a fund-raiser for the mayor's gubernatorial campaign. Records show that Mr. Moon and his wife each contributed the maximum of $2,500 to the gubernatorial campaign, and that he made smaller donations to Mr. DeStefano's mayoral campaigns.
 Mr. Moon disputes that account. He said that when Mr. Smart ''did not get his way, Mr. Smart smeared my reputation.'' Mr. Moon said he objected to the proposed meeting only because he wanted to limit the discussion to people who live close to the lot. He added, ''I am not, and never told Mr. Smart that I was, in charge of fund-raising for businesses for the mayor's campaign for governor.''
 Officials with Livable City eventually decided to support Mr. Gargano, who offered the larger amount and who had the support of nearby homeowners. He put $5,500 down on the lot in September. The day he took the check to the Livable City office, he said, the mayor's legislative aide, Christine Bonanno, was waiting for him. She told him to bring any future problems to her, not to Mr. Smart, his alderman, he said.
 ''Dealing with the alderman is not the right way to go,'' he said she told him. Ms. Bonanno said a Livable City official, Frank D'Amore, asked her to intervene because he was feeling pressure from the alderman. Mr. D'Amore said she just happened to be in his office.
 Mr. Gargano's plan reached the Livable City board for final consideration in September, the last stop before going to the Board of Aldermen for approval and the mayor for signing. Mr. Moon was there, according to the minutes, urging the board to sell him the lot so his business could expand. The board, with a majority of mayoral appointees, tabled the matter.
 Unknown to Mr. Gargano, Mr. Moon also made his case in a private meeting with the mayor on Oct. 22. Derek Slap, the mayor's spokesman, said that Mr. DeStefano listened to Mr. Moon's complaints about the process, urged him to work with his alderman, and informed him that he was ''not going to get involved in it. That's why we have boards and commissions.''
 On Oct. 26, the Livable City board again deferred voting on the matter for a month so its staff could study whether Mr. Moon's plan would ease neighborhood parking problems.
 Then, on Nov. 4, Mr. Moon's lawyer, Carolyn Kone, notified the board that it had violated its own guidelines by offering Mr. Gargano the lot without holding an auction. She argued that the city could sell her client the property without an auction in the name of economic development, but that Mr. Gargano offered the city no such benefit. Her letter, the second of two, never threatened a lawsuit, but Henry J. Fernandez III, the city's economic development director, said officials took it as a warning.
 On Nov. 5, Ms. Kone called the mayor. She and Mr. Slap said the mayor reiterated his intent to stay neutral. Four days later, the Livable City board called a special meeting to discuss the sale. Mr. Gargano said he had no hint of trouble.
 The board voted 5 to 1, with 1 abstention, to reject Mr. Gargano's proposal ''without prejudice'' so that he could reapply. Minutes show that Mr. Rizzo, Livable City's executive director, urged the board to call it quits so the agency could study the ''political patronage'' accusations raised by Mr. Gargano's supporters and questions of due process raised by Mr. Moon's lawyer.
 ''I definitely feel politics was involved,'' Mr. Gargano said of the decision. ''Being a police officer and living in the neighborhood, I'm treated like an outcast.''
 Mr. Fernandez said politics had nothing to do with the decision. He said the sale was called off to let both sides cool off and to avert litigation. He said the city was under no obligation to sell the lot to anyone.
 Still, the episode has riled neighborhood residents and fractured the relationship between the mayor and Mr. Smart, a fellow Democrat. Some residents say they are baffled how the city could consider a parking lot over a police officer. ''It's a very safe feeling to live on this block with him there,'' said Nancy O'Brien, a neighbor.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 28 about a dispute over a vacant city-owned lot in New Haven, and assertions of political favoritism, referred imprecisely to a meeting at which the board of a local development agency voted to reject a proposal from Charles Gargano, one of two interested buyers. Although the meeting was held four days after a lawyer for the other buyer, Lawrence C. Moon Jr., spoke by telephone to the mayor, it had been scheduled before the phone call. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officer Charles Gargano and the lot at 9-11 Brown Street he offered to buy for $55,000. His proposal was blocked after a contributor to the mayor's campaigns offered less money and objected strongly to the board. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); GOVERNORS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ETHICS (61%) Parking Garages and Lots; Ethics; Area Planning and Renewal; Police; Housing

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: Alison Leigh Cowan; Charles (Police officer) Gargano; John Jr (Mayor) Destefano; Lawrence C Jr Moon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Haven (Conn); New Haven (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



613 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Exactly Low Rent in College Bowl Outback

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Are you ready for the Outback Bowl -- or would you prefer the Jackaroo Chops and Toowoomba Pasta from the steakhouse chain that the bowl is named for?
 Perhaps you are aware that Wisconsin is playing Georgia in the Outback Bowl on Saturday in Tampa, Fla., and that the Badgers and the Bulldogs will be paid $2.75 million each.
 Or maybe you know that the bowl began by paying the College Football Hall of Fame for the naming rights to the Hall of Fame Bowl.
 O.K., it's not a hallowed history, and the Outback Bowl doesn't have a tradition dating to 1902. But it has a parade -- yes, with floats -- albeit one that is less magnificent and storied than the one in Pasadena with all those roses. 
 ''There are 28 bowls, and people claw and scratch to distinguish themselves,'' said Jim McVay, president and chief executive of the Outback Bowl. ''We've worked hard, had good community involvement and positioned ourselves as one of the top six bowl games in the country in terms of the teams we select and what we pay.''
 The 28-bowl postseason began Dec. 14 with the Wyndham New Orleans Bowl and will end Jan. 4, when Southern California and Oklahoma meet in the Orange Bowl (but not at the Orange Bowl) for the national championship.
 Most of the attention and controversy are focused on the four bowls that make up the Bowl Championship Series: the Rose, the Orange, the Fiesta and the Sugar Bowls. 
 They pay their participating teams $11 million to $14 million each.
 Beneath those games is an expanding world of other bowls, some that pay their teams as little as $750,000 (11 bowls, from the G.M.A.C. to the Emerald) and some that pay as much as $5.2 million (the Capital One, the former Citrus Bowl). 
 Twenty of the 28 games are carried by ESPN and ESPN2.
 ESPN pays fees or splits revenue with the bowls to acquire the rights. Mark Shapiro, an ESPN executive vice president, said the games produced more than satisfactory ratings.
 ''A bowl signifies a payoff, a sense of satisfaction, a feeling of the big prize,'' Shapiro said. ''There's clearly an appetite that grows each year; we're feeding that frenzy.''
 He added that ''it's not a watered-down product when you can get a 1.5 rating for a pairing of 6-5 teams in early December; that's astonishing.''
 Last season, the Outback Bowl generated a 4.5 cable rating (or four million TV households), the second highest on ESPN or ESPN2 after the Holiday Bowl. This week of bowls is ESPN's highest rated of the year.
 In many ways, all bowls are civic enterprises designed to put the best face on the cities where they are played. There are parades, festivals, pageants, golf and tennis tournaments, team outings and other sponsored events. The Outback Bowl stages 20 promotional events starting in the summer; the Rose Bowl has 32 committees meeting year-round to plan events that begin in September with the choosing of the Rose Queen and her royal court.
 ''Our mission statement is simple,'' McVay said of the Outback Bowl. ''We're out to create an economic impact in the Tampa Bay area and to positively showcase our community nationally and internationally.''
 Just a few years into the Hall of Fame Bowl's start in 1986, it was deeply in debt, and its local banker refused to lend it more money, McVay said. In 1996, the title sponsorship was purchased by Outback Steakhouse, which did not want to retain the Hall of Fame name. The chain's executives did not want the news media leaving off its name -- as they usually do with FedEx, Tostitos and Nokia, the title sponsors of the Orange, Fiesta and Sugar Bowls -- when referring to the game.
 That choice is echoed in bowls named for Champs Sports (the ex-Tangerine Bowl) and MPC Computers (the former Humanitarian Bowl) but not in the (EV1.net) Houston Bowl or the (Pacific Life) Holiday Bowl.
 ''This would never have been the Outback Hall of Fame Bowl,'' McVay said.
 As with most bowls, the Outback's parent, the Tampa Bay Bowl Association, is a nonprofit organization that files returns with the Internal Revenue Service. According to its filing for the fiscal year that ended Jan. 31, its revenue totaled $8.8 million, and it posted an excess of $604,126.
 Among its sources of game revenue, tickets produced the most, $3.4 million, followed by ESPN's broadcast rights fee of $2.1 million and Outback's $1 million payment for its sponsorship, which has one more year to run. Radio rights brought in only $24,500. Most of the revenue was spent to pay the teams in last year's game, Iowa and Florida, $2.65 million each. Social functions ($579,472), game-day expenses ($443,056) and advertising ($169,435) were some of the other costs.
 The bowl's revenue has grown 75 percent since its 1997 filing, while McVay's salary has swelled by 156 percent to $498,336, making him the highest-paid bowl game executive -- better compensated than the heads of much larger nonprofits like Goodwill Industries International, the American Heart Association, United Jewish Communities and the American Red Cross. 
 John Junker, who runs the Fiesta and Insight Bowls, is ranked second in salaries among top bowl game executives, at $346,058.
 McVay said he negotiated the television and title sponsorship directly, saving the bowl from paying an outside consultant $450,000 to make the deals. 
 ''It's a specialized job with a certain skill set,'' said McVay, who is in his 17th season. ''We're saving money the way we do it. The other guys don't do the same thing.''
 Mitch Dorger, chief executive of the Tournament of Roses Association, which runs the Rose Bowl, earned $192,201 in the fiscal year that ended April 30, 2003. He is part of a management committee that negotiated ABC's rights fees ($26 million this year, he said). The network sells the title and presenting sponsorships for the B.C.S. bowls, and keeps the money from Citicorp so that the game can be ''presented by Citi.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim McVay, president and chief executive of the Outback Bowl. (Photo by David Kadlubowski/The Tampa Tribune) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%) Football; Rose Bowl (Football Game); Orange Bowl (Football Game); Fiesta Bowl; Sugar Bowl; Bowl Games; Outback Bowl

COMPANY: ESPN INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%) University of Georgia; University of Wisconsin

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



614 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY BRIEFS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 159 words

 BODY:

ARBITRON, New York, which compiles television and radio ratings for broadcasters, said it had won a four-year contract to provide software and other services to the radio unit of Clear Channel Communications, San Antonio, the media company.

NEW VALLEY CORP., Miami, a real estate company, said it had agreed to sell two office buildings in Princeton, N.J., to an undisclosed buyer for about $71.5 million.

SALLIE MAE, Reston, Va., the student loan provider, said its unsolicited $1 billion takeover bid for the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency had been rejected.

L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, New York, a maker of military electronics, said that Robert LaPenta, a co-founder of the company, would retire as president and chief financial officer on April 1. L-3 said Frank Lanza, the chief executive, would temporarily assume the duties of president while Michael Strianese, senior vice president of finance, would become chief financial officer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (88%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (88%); REAL ESTATE (87%); STUDENT LOANS (87%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS INC (83%); NEW VALLEY CORP (72%); SLM CORP (57%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%); LLL (NYSE) (83%); SLM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (72%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (72%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (72%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (72%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T STRIANESE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



615 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Dental Double Standards; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: Costs Are Rising, and Fewer People Can Afford Care

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Among the nation's reservists, a common reason for not being sent to Iraq has been poor teeth. The military offers dental insurance to reservists and members of the National Guard, but for those who opt for it, the benefit of $1,200 a year does not cover many procedures and still requires reservists to pay as much as half the cost of the care. 
 The reservists are hardly alone. With dental costs rising and employers cutting dental coverage, an increasing number of working Americans cannot afford to see a dentist even for chronic problems. 
 Roughly a quarter of reservists in seven early-deploying Army units had dental problems that could require emergency attention within the next year, according to an analysis done last year by the Government Accountability Office. Similar problems surfaced in the first gulf war. 
 During the current Iraq war, some reservists and Guard members chose to have their teeth pulled so that they could be deployed, said Maj. Gen. Robert A. McIntosh, retired, the executive director for the Reserve Officers Association of the United States, in testimony before Congress in February. 
 ''Although promised restorative dental work, their reward for their loyalty and patriotism will be dentures,'' he said. Dental implants, a better alternative to dentures, are not covered because they are more expensive.
 In a nation where a person's smile is considered a sign of general well-being and an important factor in landing a job, dental care is becoming ever more unequal, policy specialists say. In 2000, the surgeon general issued a report describing the silent epidemic of dental and oral diseases affecting mainly the poor, but some specialists, including those working at community clinics, say the problem is becoming worse. 
 Each year, Americans spend about $70 billion on dental services, ranging from basic checkups to sophisticated dental implants and new cosmetic whitening treatments. But for all that spending, what has evolved is a double standard of care, with the haves getting movie star smiles and the have-nots more likely to be living with mouths full of bad or missing teeth. 
 Only about half of the country has any form of dental insurance, by some estimates. Most employers do not offer the benefit, and dental coverage is often one of the first things companies cut to reduce costs. In 2003, 39 percent of employers offered dental benefits, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation study, compared with 66 percent that offered health insurance. 
 And as employers continue to grapple with double-digit increases in their health care spending, a recent survey by the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers, a trade association, found that many are likely to drop dental coverage altogether or ask employees to foot more of the bill. Among the 45 million people without any health insurance, dental services -- costs have risen by about 50 percent in the last decade, above inflation -- is a low priority. 
 While many fewer older Americans now lose all their teeth, in part because dental technologies and fluoridation have vastly improved the general level of oral health since the 1960's, specialists say that the advances made in earlier decades still elude the poor and working class. 
 Despite significant strides in dentistry, more people are going without procedures like root canals and crowns needed to save their teeth. ''It's one of the most disparate areas of care that I've seen,'' said Gina Nolte, the executive director of the Red River Valley Dental Access Project in Fargo, N.D.
 Renee Iverson, a mental health care worker in Alexandria, Minn., for example, could not afford a root canal, which would have cost her at least $1,000, to save a painful abscessed tooth. When she got together enough cash, $120, to have her tooth pulled, the dentist she saw refused, telling her it would be unethical to extract a tooth that could be saved. 
 ''You're kidding, right?'' Ms. Iverson recalls saying to the dentist. She eventually went to a hospital emergency room for antibiotics and pain medicine, and had the tooth pulled two years later by another dentist, who has since retired. 
 Dr. Martin Lieberman, a dentist in Seattle who works at a community health center, says that for his low-income patients, dental work is usually the last thing they can afford. His center offers discounted services, based on a sliding scale. ''As general dentists, we have become very talented at taking teeth out,'' he said. 
 For people who receive health coverage through public programs, what limited dental coverage there is has also been shrinking. Medicare, the federal insurance program for the elderly, does not provide dental benefits, so the elderly poor have had to depend on state-financed programs. But in the last few years many states, including Massachusetts, Michigan and Washington, have reduced or eliminated adult dental benefits offered through Medicaid, the state-federal program. 
 Only eight states now have full dental benefits for adults, down from 14 a few years ago, according to the Children's Dental Health Project in Washington. Many states will cover only emergency services. Seven offer no coverage whatsoever. Children in poverty fare better, because coverage under Medicaid is mandatory.
 ''The safety net is uniquely weak in dentistry,'' said Dr. Burton L. Edelstein, founding director of the project, who is a dentist and professor at Columbia University Medical Center. Dr. Edelstein, who conducted a study for the Commonwealth Fund, a New York group that finances health care research, says that about a third of adults in families with incomes of less than $20,000 were likely to have seen a dentist within the last year, compared with nearly three-quarters of those in families making more than $75,000. 
 The realities of dental care also reflect shifts in the health system over all as more uninsured people turn to emergency care to manage illnesses that were allowed to worsen over time. 
 ''Dental is the canary in the coal mine,'' said Mark Secord, the executive director for Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, a group of medical and dental clinics in Seattle, which has had a rapid rise in the number of patients seeking discounted dental services in the last few years. 
 But dentistry is different from the rest of health care because it has historically been a cash business: patients pay directly for about 44 percent of what they spent in 2002, compared with about 14 percent out of pocket for overall medical care. And many dentists do not accept insurance, let alone programs like Medicaid, which often pay them less than market rate for their services. The American Dental Association, with 150,000 dentists as members, says funding, particularly through Medicaid, is inadequate. Dr. Richard Haught, the association's president, points out that the federal government and states devote only a shade over 1 percent of the Medicaid budget to dental care. He says the issue of people not obtaining dental care is a priority for his group. ''We're committed, as an association, as a dental group, as a profession, to changing this,'' he said. 
 Private dentists provide about $36,000 in free or discounted care, on average, treating a couple of hundred patients each year, according to the dental association. 
 One factor contributing to low public funding is the perception among some policy makers that oral health is separate from overall health, but doctors and dentists say that diseased teeth and gums contribute significantly to many other medical problems, like heart disease.
 Pregnant women with periodontal disease, for example, appear to be significantly more likely to give birth to low-weight babies because the resulting inflammation may contribute to premature labor. ''If we could just get good oral health in this country, we can save a ton on the Medicaid system,'' Dr. Haught said. A few states like Michigan and Alabama have tried to increase dentists' fees to encourage more of them to participate in Medicaid. 
 Last week, Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin, a Democrat, and Senator Susan M. Collins of Maine, a Republican, wrote to President Bush asking him to include money in next year's budget for the Dental Health Improvement Act, which would fund new state programs that serve rural and poor communities. 
 In the meantime, the burden of serving people without dental coverage largely falls to cash-short community health clinics and even hospital emergency rooms. Dr. John Gusha, a dentist in Holden, Mass., who is the head of a dental group in his area that is trying to find ways to provide services to more low-income adults and children, said more than 1,000 people were currently on waiting lists for free or discounted dental services at each of the two nonprofit health centers in his area.
 Federal subsidies for community clinics to expand dental care have been minuscule -- about $34 million over the last four years. Such clinics serve only about two million people annually for dental services, with money from states and other sources, and what they can collect from patients. 
 As a result, many people without access to dentists eventually end up in hospital emergency rooms, said Ms. Nolte of Fargo. She noted that local hospitals said they received about 1,400 visits for dental services. But hospitals are often poorly equipped to handle these patients because they have no dentists on staff and can only offer temporary solutions like antibiotics and painkillers. 
 The discounted services at community clinics are ''kind of a drop in the bucket'' compared with the unmet need, said Laurie E. Felland, a health care researcher for the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonprofit group in Washington. ''It seems barbaric,'' she said. ''We're pulling teeth and calling it a service.''
 As for reservists returning to civilian life, they may well find themselves with missing teeth or problems that worsened during their service overseas. Many may end up on waiting lists at community clinics, with the problem of paying for dental services just as severe as before they left.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Renee Iverson, left, said she could not afford a root canal to save an abscessed tooth, but a dentist refused to pull it, saying it would be unethical. A colleague, Melanie Hanson, right, said she used pliers to pull a tooth when she could not afford a dentist. (Photo by Ben Garvin for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
''The safety net is uniquely weak in dentistry,'' said Dr. Burton L. Edelstein, a dentist and professor at Columbia University Medical Center. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)
 Dr. Martin Lieberman, a dentist in Seattle who works at a community health center, says the center offers services based on a sliding scale. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''Opening Wallets Wide, Wider''The price of medical care has been rising faster than overall inflation for years, with price increases for dental services often leading the way.Graph tracks year-over-year change in prices, (3-month moving averages) from 1996-2004 for the following:Dental servicesAll medical careAll consumer prices(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTISTRY (91%); DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (89%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (87%); INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); ORAL HEALTH (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ORAL HYGIENE (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%) Teeth and Dentistry; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Industry Profiles; Teeth and Dentistry

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); RESERVE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

PERSON: Reed Abelson

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



616 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: In Light Trading, Dollar Hits A New Low Against the Euro

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell to a record low against the euro yesterday, continuing a slide in thin, post-Christmas trading. 
 In late New York trading, the euro eased slightly to $1.3620, above the previous high of $1.3548, set on Friday in light preholiday trading, and more than a cent higher than Thursday's late New York rate of $1.3493. United States trading was largely curtailed Friday ahead of the Christmas holiday. 
 The sharp rise in the euro was helped by the low liquidity, which was about half of that on a normal day, said Chris Callander, a senior foreign exchange analyst at CMC Group in New York. 
 Also, traders were encouraged by talk among analysts that the euro could hit $1.50 or $1.60 by the end of 2005, Mr. Callander said. 
 However, with market movements so exaggerated because of low volumes, he said he did not expect the euro to climb rapidly for much longer. 
 ''There are support levels at around $1.35, but there's less support than there is resistance at around $1.36, $1.37,'' he said. ''In a low liquidity market, it can revert very quickly.'' 
 The dollar has fallen steadily against the euro and other major currencies in recent weeks on worries over the large United States trade and budget deficits -- factors that can undermine a country's currency. With no short-term fix for those deficits in sight, many analysts expect the dollar to continue weakening and some have predicted a euro level of $1.40 or higher by the end of 2005. 
 Though Washington professes a strong-dollar policy, most observers say they believe the government is content to see the dollar fall because it makes exports cheaper and can help export-dependent sectors of the economy. 
 Some analysts said the stronger euro could hurt Europe's economy by making exports more expensive. On the other hand, analysts said, it helps cool inflation by making imports cheaper -- particularly oil, which is priced in dollars. 
 Other consequences include higher costs of living for Americans abroad. The military has given troops stationed in Europe a 31 percent increase in their cost-of-living adjustments to help make up for the diminished purchasing power of their salaries. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since June 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COST OF LIVING (85%); CHRISTMAS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); EXPORT PROMOTION (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Currency; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



617 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN: Survival of the Biggest; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2873 words

HEADLINE: Supermarket Giants Crush Central American Farmers

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: PALENCIA, Guatemala 

 BODY:
Mario Chinchilla, his face shaded by a battered straw hat, worriedly surveyed his field of sickly tomatoes. His hands and jeans were caked with dirt, but no amount of labor would ever turn his puny crop into the plump, unblemished produce the country's main supermarket chain displays in its big stores. 
 For a time, the farmer's cooperative he heads managed to sell vegetables to the chain, part owned by the giant Dutch multinational, Ahold, which counts Stop&Shop among its assets. But the co-op's members lacked the expertise, as well as the money to invest in the modern greenhouses, drip irrigation and pest control that would have helped them meet supermarket specifications. 
 Squatting next to his field, Mr. Chinchilla's rugged face was a portrait of defeat. ''They wanted consistent supply without ups and downs,'' he said, scratching the soil with a stick. ''We didn't have the capacity to do it.'' 
 Across Latin America, supermarket chains partly or wholly owned by global corporate goliaths like Ahold, Wal-Mart and Carrefour have revolutionized food distribution in the short span of a decade and have now begun to transform food growing, too. 
 The megastores are popular with customers for their lower prices, choice and convenience. But their sudden appearance has brought unanticipated and daunting challenges to millions of struggling, small farmers. 
 The stark danger is that increasing numbers of them will go bust and join streams of desperate migrants to America and the urban slums of their own countries. Their declining fortunes, economists and agronomists fear, could worsen inequality in a region where the gap between rich and poor already yawns cavernously and the concentration of land in the hands of an elite has historically fueled cycles of rebellion and violent repression. 
 ''It's like being on a train with a glass on a table and it's about to fall off and break,'' said Prof. Thomas Reardon, an agricultural economist at Michigan State University. ''Everyone sees the glass on the table -- but do they see it shaking? Do they see the edge? The edge is the structural changes in the market.'' 
 In the 1990's supermarkets went from controlling 10 to 20 percent of the market in the region to dominating it, a transition that took 50 years in the United States, according to researchers at Michigan State and the Latin American Center for Rural Development in Santiago, Chile.
 Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica and Mexico are furthest along. While the changes have happened more slowly in poorer, more rural Central American countries, they have begun to quicken here, too. In Guatemala, the number of supermarkets has more than doubled in the past decade, as the share of food they retail has reached 35 percent. 
 The hope that small farmers would benefit by banding together in business-minded associations has not been borne out. Some like Aj Ticonel, in the city of Chimaltenango, have succeeded. But the evidence suggests that the failure of Mr. Chinchilla's co-op is the more common fate.
 Its feeble attempts to sell to major supermarkets illustrate how the odds are stacked against small farmers, as well as the uneven effects of globalization itself. Many small farmers in the region are getting left behind, while medium-sized and larger growers, with more money and marketing savvy, are far more likely to benefit. 
 Most fruits and vegetables in the region are still sold in small shops and open-air markets, but the value of supermarket purchases from farmers has soared and now surpasses that of produce exports by two and half times, researchers say. 
 The bottom line: supermarkets and their privately set standards already loom larger for many farmers than the rules of the World Trade Organization.
 Still, stiff competition from foreign growers is also quite real. To enter the supermarkets of Guatemala's dominant supermarket chain, La Fragua -- part of a holding company one-third owned by Ahold -- is to understand why Professor Reardon likens them to a Trojan horse for foreign goods. 
 At La Fragua's immense distribution center in Guatemala City, trucks back into loading docks, where electric forklifts unload apples from Washington State, pineapples from Chile, potatoes from Idaho and avocados from Mexico.
 The produce is trucked from here to the chain's supermarkets, which now span the country. Scenes at a mall in Guatemala City anchored by Maxi Bodega, one of the company's stores, suggest the evolving nature of grocery shopping for Latin America's 512 million people.
 On the ground floor was a sprawling, old-fashioned produce market. At the entry, there was a shrine to its patron saint, the Virgin of Rosario, who had plastic flowers sprinkled at her queenly feet.
 The sound of women patting out tortillas and the sweet smells of ripe tropical fruits drifted through the market as people stopped to squeeze the avocados, sniff the pineapples and haggle for cheaper oranges. 
 To go upstairs was to leave Guatemala behind and enter a mall that could be in Bangkok or New York, with its synthetic Christmas wreaths, cheap clothing stores and oversized discount packages of napkins and symmetrical tomatoes in plastic trays at the Maxi Bodega.
 The Baldetti family exemplified the generational change unfolding here.
 Delia Baldetti, an 81-year-old housewife, will only shop for produce amid the heaps of tomatoes, chilies and papayas where she can bargain to her heart's content. Her daughter Elsa, a 56-year-old painter, shops both here and at Maxi Bodega, while Elsa's daughter, a 36-year-old business administrator, only has time for the supermarket.
 Elsa wistfully predicted that while the country's fragrant, raucous markets will never disappear, they will diminish. ''We'll lose some of our identity,'' she said. ''We're copying the foreigners.''
 Farmers who do not or cannot afford to change fast enough to meet the standards set by supermarkets are threatened. 
 The tiny farming community of Lo de Silva clings to a steep, verdant hillside. Slanting cornstalks look as if they would slide into the valley if they were not rooted to the earth.
 Some of the more than 300 farmers who originally belonged to Mr. Chinchilla's co-op, the Association of Small Irrigation Users of Palencia -- known by its Spanish acronym, Asumpal -- were from this village. Only eight remain. The only product they still sell is salad tomatoes -- and they sell to middlemen, not supermarkets.
 Jose Luis Perez Escobar, 44, a member of the co-op, scratched out a living for 20 years from his small field, perched in the clouds here. 
 But after his potato crop failed last year, he migrated to the United States to save his land from foreclosure by the bank, leaving his wife, Maria Graciela Lorenzana, and their five children behind. He now works the graveyard shift at a golf course in Texas for $6 an hour so he can pay his debts.
 He had dreamed his cooperative would help him escape poverty by selling directly to the supermarkets. ''It would be magnificent,'' Mrs. Lorenzana recalled of that more hopeful time. ''The small farmer would not need a middleman. But he was never able to achieve it.''

A Transformation Begins
 The transformation of Latin America's food retailing system began in the 1980's and accelerated in the 1990's as countries opened their economies, often to satisfy conditions for loans from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. As foreign investment flooded in, multinational retailers bought up domestic chains or entered joint ventures with them. 
 Most concern about the perils of globalization for local farmers has focused on unfair trade competition from heavily subsidized American and European producers. 
 But increasingly, supermarkets also leave small farmers exposed as the stores spread from big cities to small towns, from well-to-do enclaves to working-class neighborhoods, from richer countries to poorer ones.
 The chains now dominate sales of processed foods and their share of produce sales is growing. In Guatemala, supermarkets still control only 10 to 15 percent of fruit and vegetable sales. But in Argentina, their slice has grown to as much as 30 percent, while in Brazil they control half the market, according to Professor Reardon. 
 As the chains' market share expands, farmers who are shut out find themselves forced to retreat to shrinking rural markets. 
 The changes would not be so troubling if the region's economies were growing robustly and generating decent jobs for globalization's losers. After all, supermarkets are providing consumers with cheaper, cleaner places to buy food, economists say. 
 ''It would be an appealing transformation of the sector if alternative jobs could be made available,'' said Samuel Morley, an economist at the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington. 
 But economic growth has not kept pace with rising populations. The number of people living below poverty lines in Latin America has risen from 200 million in 1990 to 224 million this year. More than 6 in 10 people living in rural areas are still poor.
 Given the difficulties small farmers face in doing business with multinational corporations, traditional strategies, like providing peasants with fertilizer and improved seeds, now seem quaint here. 
 Professor Reardon and Julio A. Berdegue, an agronomist who heads the Latin American Center for Rural Development, are collaborating with supermarket researchers across Asia and Africa, as well as Latin America, to document the trends. 
 In addition, a team at Michigan State has financing from the United States Agency for International Development to help small farmers in Central America, India and Kenya sell to supermarkets. They and other development experts are brainstorming about what to do. 
 Among the ideas: Regulations requiring that farmers be paid promptly. Enforcement of laws meant to curtail monopolies and oligopolies, including mergers of supermarket chains. Improved security and cleanliness at open-air markets. Infusions of credit and technical expertise for co-ops.
 But while such cooperatives are almost certainly necessary if small growers are to amass the clout and scale to sell to multinational chains, they have been a disappointment so far. 
 Even in economically vibrant Chile, which has invested $1.5 billion in small-scale farming since 1990, a study of 750 farmer organizations found that 8 of 10 had failed or survived only with continuous infusions of government aid. 
 Mr. Berdegue, author of the Chile study, had sought to make the associations work in the 1990's when he was a senior government official there. The pressure from the I.M.F. and the World Bank to allow greater foreign investment was intended to make Latin American economies more competitive.
 ''But the model did not have a social dimension at the real center,'' he said. ''It was trickle-down economics.''

An Experiment Disappoints
 Mr. Chinchilla, 46, drove his battered, 20-year-old pickup, laden with crates of tomatoes, into his cooperative's spacious packing shed. The building and the business are in decay.
 The water had been cut off. Toilets no longer flushed. The roof was missing over the bathroom, its floor covered with bird droppings. The live-in caretakers who sort the co-op's tomatoes had only an open pail of rainwater to wash their hands. They wore no gloves while handling the fruit. 
 Typically, each farmer is growing less than an acre of salad tomatoes in rustic greenhouses that are fast deteriorating. Their production has plummeted because of the blight that dries out the plants, which then yield very small tomatoes.
 ''We haven't found a solution,'' Maria Antonietta Muralles, a co-op member, said with a shrug. ''Maybe it's the water.'' 
 Mr. Chinchilla treated his plants with pesticides to no effect. ''You can't fight it with chemicals,'' he said. Maybe the soil itself is infected, they speculated. 
 ''Everything costs money,'' he explained -- money he does not have and cannot afford to borrow at the going rate of 21 percent. ''When you don't have access to credit, you can't expand,'' he said. ''We don't want anything given to us, but we need a hand.''
 As the farmers talked, two workers separated tomatoes by size, with the shrunken ones far too numerous. But their co-op's hopes of selling to big supermarket chains withered well before the plants. The co-op got started in the late 1990's, with a small grant from the government to upgrade the packing shed. An agronomist, Candelario Lopez, was given a two-year contract, also at government expense, to advise them.
 Over the next couple of years, Mr. Lopez helped the co-op get its foot in the door with La Fragua and C.S.U., another major supermarket chain. The chains have since united to become the Central American Retail Holding Company, with 332 stores and almost $2 billion in sales in 2003. It is one-third owned by Ahold, which had more than $68 billion in sales last year. 
 But the co-op did not manage to supply the big chains for long. The farmers themselves were uncomfortable with the rules of the supermarket game. They found it difficult to wait weeks to get paid. They did not want to sell their vegetables on the books and pay taxes that sharply cut profits. And some of what they supplied was rejected as too bruised or too limp or too ripe. 
 The co-op's leaders said they quit selling to C.S.U. through its dedicated wholesaler in 2000 after two container loads of vegetables got held up for days at the Nicaraguan border, severely damaging the produce. ''We weren't prepared to absorb that kind of loss,'' said Marco Tulio Alvizures, who then headed the co-op. 
 Perhaps more fundamental, co-op members had trouble consistently delivering the quantity and quality of produce the supermarkets demanded, a problem Mr. Chinchilla readily acknowledged.
 In the case of La Fragua, Mr. Alvizures contended that the chain never gave the co-op a chance to sell the amount it was capable of. But Jorge Gonzalez, the chain's manager for vegetables, said the small orders likely reflected La Fragua's judgment, based on weekly evaluations, that the co-op was not up to the task. The co-op was such a small supplier that Mr. Gonzalez could not recall all the details of their dealings.
 The corporate imperative is to reward suppliers who consistently provide what the chain requires. If the vegetables do not arrive, shelves stand empty. ''We punish farmers very hard if they don't deliver what we order,'' said Bernardo Roehrs, a spokesman for the chain.
 As the co-op members sought to navigate the difficult new world of supermarkets, they lost the critical guidance of Mr. Lopez, the agronomist, when his contract expired in 2001. He is now a salesman for a company that makes high-tech greenhouses the co-op's farmers could never afford.

A Rare Success Story
 Not too far from Palencia, in the city of Chimaltenango, is Aj Ticonel, an association of small farmers that has thrived because it has something Mr. Chinchilla's co-op lacked: a shrewd and enterprising businessman to run it.
 But even for a savvy company like Aj Ticonel, success came not from supplying choosy supermarket chains but rather from its ability to exploit a global market. 
 Aj Ticonel sells three million pounds of mini-vegetables and snow peas for export to the United States, but only 80,000 pounds to supermarkets. Alberto Monterroso said he gave up on growing broccoli for La Fragua. He found the chain bought inconsistent amounts. ''There are a lot of competitors here,'' he said, ''a lot of small farmers trying to sell to them, so the prices are low.''
 The company's success has been built instead on sales of pricey vegetables for export. It now sells the same to La Fragua, and its membership has risen from 40 families in 1999 to 2,000 today. 
 Its plant sparkles. Its 53 packers wear gloves, face masks and hairnets as they sort slender French beans on stainless steel tables. Each box produce is marked with a bar code traceable to the family that grew it.
 Aj Ticonel sold $2.5 million worth of vegetables last year, but Mr. Monterroso, a sociologist and deal maker with a passion for justice, paid himself only $18,000. Most of the company's profits are plowed back into the plant, marketing campaigns and agricultural education for the farmers. 
 ''I want a different country for my sons,'' Mr. Monterroso said. ''I'm trying to redistribute the wealth so people will live in harmony.'' 
 One recent afternoon, a big Aj Ticonel truck took a meandering path into the hilly countryside, stopping for peasants waiting roadside with crates of vegetables to load. 
 Many of them grumbled that Aj Ticonel does not pay enough and rejects too many of their vegetables, but most had been selling to the company for years. The evidence of their profit could be seen in new roofs, freshly painted homes and well-clothed children. 
 Still, Mr. Monterroso acknowledged how hard it will be to replicate Aj Ticonel. Three times, the company loaned money to farmers to clone itself. Three times the farmers went out of business. 
 For Latin America's millions of small farmers, he offered this sobering fact of life: ''The client buys from us not because poor people produce it, but because it's a good product.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Graciela Lorenzana's husband migrated to the United States to try save his farm after his potato crop failed last year.
 A vendor tends produce at Guatemala City's Central Market, top, as her baby naps. Though some shoppers are loyal to the traditional ways, many are flocking to megastores like Hiper Paiz Roosevelt, above, where produce is unblemished and uniform in size. (Photographs by Janet Jarman for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Map of Guatemala highlighting Palencia: An agricultural co-op in Palencia has dwindled to 8 members from 300. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (94%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); RODENTS (89%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); AGRONOMY (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); TRENDS (71%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SLUM DWELLINGS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) Food; Surveys and Series; Supermarkets; Agriculture; Farmers; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Greenhouses; Irrigation; Cooperatives; Food; Finances; Pesticides; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Foreign Investments; Food

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund 

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (91%); AH (BIT) (91%); AH (AMS) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (91%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (91%)

PERSON: Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (78%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) GUATEMALA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CHILE (92%); MEXICO (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



618 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Vioxx. Celebrex. Now Aleve. What's a Patient to Think?

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
When Audrey Eisen flicked her computer on last Monday night and read the news that the painkiller Aleve had been linked to heart attacks, she winced in disbelief.
 Ms. Eisen, 64, a retired professor who lives in New York, had just returned from her drugstore with a package of Aleve. Her pharmacist allowed her to return it the next morning, no questions asked. 
 It was the third painkiller in four months that Ms. Eisen, who has degenerative spine and disk disease, had quit abruptly because of studies linking the drugs to heart attacks. She flushed her Vioxx down the toilet in September, after it was withdrawn from the market, and switched to Celebrex. But when problems surfaced with Celebrex this month, she had to stop that, too. 
 ''I was extremely angry,'' said Ms. Eisen, whose father, two uncles, and grandparents died of heart disease. ''Now I just don't trust the Food and Drug Administration anymore. I told a friend of mine, who had also been on Celebrex, that I was sure there'd be some other surprise in a few days.''
 Many Americans who have relied for pain relief on pills believed to be safe say their faith has been eroded in the system intended to protect them. Longtime users of Celebrex and similar drugs are swearing off them, even though the details of the studies that led to the recent warnings are still under wraps, and other studies have found no added dangers.
 Some doctors say they are concerned their patients may be overreacting, but psychologists who study how people evaluate risks say the widespread anxiety, raft of lawsuits and feelings of broken trust are neither surprising nor, necessarily, unwarranted.
 ''Based on what we know so far, it's understandable that people are worried that any risk that emerges with these drugs is probably the tip of the iceberg,'' said Dr. George Loewenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University. 
 ''They hear that there was one study that didn't find an increase in heart attacks, but then they think, 'O.K., but how many studies have been suppressed?''' Dr. Loewenstein said. ''There's a danger of a cataclysmic reduction or collapse of trust in physicians and in the government, and what we're seeing now could be a leading indicator of that.''
 Studies show that most people, learning of a drug's potentially deadly side effects or some other potential hazard, will accept a certain amount of danger if they feel they have unfiltered information and can properly weigh the risks. But in the last few months, the bad news trickling out of drug companies and from federal health officials has been murky and confusing, psychologists say. 
 ''It's not like there's good information and people don't understand it,'' said Dr. Baruch Fischhoff, a professor of decision sciences at Carnegie Mellon. ''There's lousy information and people are frustrated and acting appropriately.''
 Vioxx was pulled from the shelves by Merck in September when a large clinical trial linked it to heart attacks. On Thursday, responding to evidence that Celebrex and Bextra may pose the same risks, the F.D.A. recommended that physicians limit their use of the drugs. But the agency has come under criticism that it first learned Vioxx was unsafe several years ago, and the news on Thursday prompted consumer groups to say the agency was once again siding with drug companies by not acting more forcefully. 
 In the meantime, millions of people on Celebrex are forced to make sense of conflicting data on the drug's safety. One study has linked it to heart problems at high doses; two others, including one last week, showed no such risks. And because the studies were intended to look at the drug's effectiveness in preventing colon polyps or warding off Alzheimer's, experts say it is unclear whether the researchers controlled for underlying risks of heart disease like weight, age and smoking. The National Institutes of Health has not yet released that information. 
 It also remains unclear whether Celebrex succeeded in helping prevent the recurrence of polyps in the study that was halted: the Merck study of Vioxx that led to the drug's withdrawal found that the medication had an effect in reducing polyps.
 ''It is unfortunate that physicians and patients have limited data, some of it in direct conflict with existing conclusions, causing anxiety that at this time cannot be definitively confirmed nor refuted,'' Dr. Elizabeth Tindall, president of the American College of Rheumatology, said in a statement last week.
 Experts say that patients debating whether to continue their pain medications should meet with their doctors to determine their risk of heart disease. They can also calculate their long-term risk at a Web site set up by the health institutes, hin.nhlbi.nih.gov/atpiii/calculator.asp?usertype=pub. 
 Meanwhile, Dr. Fischhoff said, the results from the Celebrex trials will not be helpful to most people until they are combined and analyzed, indicating the drug's overall risk. That information, he said, is particularly crucial for people who feel strongly that Celebrex works for them, but are worried about its potential cardiovascular dangers. 
 ''If you look at one study, you're more likely to get a statistically significant effect than if you pool the results,'' he said. ''If I'm somebody who's in dire pain, and this is the only thing that works for me, I need the overall effect size. When I have that, then I might be able to say, 'O.K., given the improvement in my quality of life, I'm willing to take that 1 in 100 chance of death.'''
 Instead, patients are struggling to piece together information. What perhaps has most outraged people is a collective sense that facts are being concealed, making people feel that they are unwittingly playing with danger.
 Dr. George Gray, the executive director of the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, pointed to the furor that erupted two months ago when federal health officials announced a shortage of flu vaccine and urged restrictions on who should be immunized. Almost immediately, people began flooding their local health clinics -- some who had never bothered to get vaccinated before -- clamoring for shots. 
 ''Everybody was going bonkers,'' Dr. Gray said.
 But now that there is plenty of vaccine, no one is getting immunized, he said. The demand has dwindled so much that a federal advisory committee recommended a little over a week ago that the restraints on immunizations should be eased, fearing that tens of thousands of doses of vaccine will go to waste. 
 ''When it means that someone else is controlling whether or not I may be in danger, whether it's not letting me have the flu shot or not telling me about the potential risks of these medications, then people will react in ways that can seem out of proportion to the actual risk,'' Dr. Gray said.
 People will also react more acutely if they feel they were put in danger by the very person or thing that was supposed to protect them.
 So the fact that the warnings involved a drug that people took each morning thinking it would make them healthier is particularly troubling to the public, some experts say, as is the fact that health officials who were supposed to look out for them may have instead neglected to alert them about serious side effects.
 ''It's like if someone is assaulted by a security guard, or if an air bag malfunctions and endangers them,'' said Cass R. Sunstein, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School and the author of ''Risk and Reason.'' 
 ''The degree of alarm and outrage is because something that's supposed to make people safe is really putting them at risk,'' Mr. Sunstein said.
 The recent news may have prompted millions of people to throw away their pills in anger. But the past suggests that many will eventually return to them, deciding that their lives are unbearable without them or that their other options are far worse. 
 In 2002, for example, after a large study found that hormone replacement therapy could increase the risk of heart attacks, stroke and breast cancer, menopausal women were strongly urged to quit their hormone regimens. Millions did. But over time, experts say, many women found the hot flashes, insomnia and night sweats excruciating, and returned to hormone therapy. 
 ''There's usually a very big initial reaction, and then people come back,'' Dr. Loewenstein said. ''Once they get used to side effects, people tend to become very complacent.''
 Mignon Kaplan, a ballet teacher who lives in New York, is among those who decided that returning to a cox-2 inhibitor was worth the risks. Mrs. Kaplan, who used Celebrex to treat her arthritis for four years, said she stopped taking the drug after Vioxx was pulled from the market. 
 In October, when her arthritis pain grew overwhelming, she went back on Celebrex, but then stopped again when it was tied to heart problems. Her doctor wrote her a prescription for Voltaren, an older arthritis drug that scared her back to Celebrex.
 ''It came with pages and pages of side effects,'' she said. ''They looked even worse than Celebrex's. It said contact your doctor if you experience blood in your vomit, bloody or black stool, dizziness, yellowing of the skin. I thought, I don't want these things. I've been taking Celebrex for a long time and it's agreed with me, so I called my doctor and said put me back on Celebrex.'' 
 Mrs. Kaplan's physician, Dr. Fred Pescatore, an internist in Manhattan, said about 70 percent of his patients had stopped taking Celebrex and other cox-2 inhibitors since September. He said he pleaded with Mrs. Kaplan to do the same. She refused, agreeing only to switch to a lower dose.
 ''She figured that the devil she knows is better than the devil she doesn't know,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Audrey Eisen has abruptly stopped taking three painkillers in four months because of studies linking the drugs to heart attacks. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); ANALGESICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (86%); PHARMACIES (77%); PHARMACISTS (77%); ARTHRITIS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Vioxx (Drug); Celebrex (Drug); Aleve (Drug); Pain; Consumer Protection; Heart; Medicine and Health; Research; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Arthritis and Rheumatism

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: Anahad O'Connor; Audrey Eisen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



619 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: In Alaskan Islands, Fearing A Spill That Comes on Legs

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Alaska 

 BODY:
Only hours after a giant soybean freighter ran aground a few hundred miles from this small island in the middle of the Bering Sea, the research scientists stationed here began to panic.
 It would be merely a matter of time before oil from the freighter Selendang Ayu, which broke apart on Dec. 8, would begin oozing into the ocean, straight into one of the world's most diverse and delicate wildlife habitats. But worse than an oil spill, in the view of wildlife biologists working furiously to protect millions of exotic animals, the freighter, if it got close enough, could cause an even greater environmental calamity: a rat spill. 
 ''Is the ship near an island that is still rat-free?'' asked Kent Sundseth, a biologist with the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge, as he fielded frantic telephone calls from headquarters on the mainland. 
 Mr. Sundseth was assured that the battered freighter, loaded with food and presumably rats that thrive on it, was near an island that was already infested. But his fears reflected the growing ecological devastation caused by a new archenemy of the Arctic. 
 ''They're a real problem once you get them,'' Mr. Sundseth said later, as he drove around snowbound St. Paul in a windstorm in his blue pickup, which he calls the rat truck because it is stocked with traps and anti-rat literature. ''This can really be a catastrophic event.'' 
 Rats, of the hardy Norway breed, are now present on 82 percent of the world's islands, including, of course, Manhattan. Like killer bees swarming across the continents, rats are now burrowing into the farthest reaches of Alaska, attacking seabirds where they nest, along with their eggs and chicks. 
 Scientists say rats have whittled away entire bird colonies on some islands, where rats do not belong in the food chain and the birds -- auklets, murres, tufted puffins, red-legged kittiwakes and red-faced cormorants -- are defenseless. Besides preying on birds, rats bring the threat of disease, posing a health risk to both humans and sea mammals, including fur seals that breed here and are a mainstay of the local people, as well as endangered stellar sea lions.
 While some rats have made it ashore after shipwrecks, the infestation problems on some islands seem to be an outgrowth of economic development efforts, experts say. As more of Alaska's islands, many of them deeply poor communities of Eskimos and Aleuts, have built up their harbors in recent years to spur development, the rats have scurried off freighters and other vessels. 
 Here on St. Paul, where 700 Aleuts live alongside hundreds of thousands of seabirds, fur seals and exotic plant life, only six rats have been caught at the docks in a decade. 
 But ''it only takes one,'' said Mr. Sundseth, who as refuge operations specialist is in charge of keeping rats at bay in a group of islands known as the Pribilofs.
 The Pribilofs have so many unique species they are known as the Galapagos of the North.
 The rats are coming as stowaways on freighters that dock in the new harbors, hitchhikers that may lurk in the crannies of crab boats moving in and out of here in the winter, or as byproducts of shipwrecks. 
 Even in the icy dark tundra of these western islands, rats are so reproductively prolific that one can have tens of thousands of descendants over its two- to three-year life. 
 The vermin, who have driven species to extinction in some parts of Alaska and elsewhere, have begun to infest several of the Aleutian Islands, off Alaska's southwest coast. 
 And they are fast encroaching on other islands, including St. Paul, a stark and windswept island 300 miles west of the Alaskan mainland. The Pribilofs are home to 2.7 million seabirds and an ecosystem entirely unprepared for the invasion of rodents. 
 ''Our concern when those harbors were built was that for the first time now we've got a real potential threat here to the wildlife and the people who live in the Pribilofs,'' Vernon Byrd, a biologist with the refuge, said in a telephone interview from the refuge headquarters in Homer, in southwest Alaska.
 Setting and checking the rat traps, Mr. Byrd said, is ''a routine, mundane, tough chore -- winter and summer -- to keep these bait stations active.''
 ''The idea is it's got to be forever,'' he said.
 Scientists say they now fear rat spills more than oil spills, which can eventually be cleaned up. 
 The St. Paul rat patrol, a team of scientists and Aleut conservation officials, has set more than a hundred traps baited with peanut butter and has educated all who live or work on this island with the slogan ''To stay rat-free, kill the first rat.'' The 4.9-million-acre refuge, part of the federal Fish and Wildlife Service, has also created ''shipwreck response teams'' to deal exclusively with the potential for rats' making their way ashore. 
 The service, which is spending $25,000 annually on rat prevention on islands including the Pribilofs, received $500,000 from an oil spill settlement two years ago to study whether rats could be eradicated from infested Alaskan islands, said to Art Sowls, a biologist with the refuge who is the main architect of Alaska's rat response efforts.
 If the experience of other Alaskan islands where rats have been established is any indication, there is plenty of reason to worry about places like St. Paul. On Kiska in the Aleutians, thousands of auklets and other birds in one of the largest seabird colonies in the Northern Hemisphere are being destroyed each year.
 Rats have now infested more than a dozen large Alaskan islands, scientists say, and are present on dozens of smaller ones.
 But rats are not entirely new to Alaska, which a long history of shipping to its harbors and shores has always made vulnerable to infestations. The first known rat invasion occurred in 1780, when a Japanese ship wrecked on an Aleutian island. The island became known as Rat Island; no humans live there but the ecological devastation to wildlife from rats has been well documented. 
 More rats came to Alaska during World War II, with its brisk ship traffic. Other rats besides the Norway have arrived on Alaskan islands, but only the Norway can survive the weather, scientists say. 
 Over the past decade, the number of rats has grown with the development of harbors, and in the past few years scientists have stepped up their efforts to control them. St. Paul, which was discovered by Russian fur traders in 1786, has managed to avoid infestation, but scientists worry about potential stowaways in the holds of fishing boats that crowd its new harbor.
 And because Aleuts subsist on many of the species that inhabit the island and its waters, including sea ducks, other birds and their eggs, the impact on people could be significant as well. 
 Scientists say that in the Aleutians and the Pribilofs, where the climate is maritime arctic, temperatures are not low enough keep Norway rats from surviving, because on average the low in December is about 24 degrees. In Anchorage, Alaska's largest city, where it tends to be significantly colder than here, there are few rats, if any.
 Mr. Byrd said that efforts were also under way to eradicate rats from Rat Island and that the hope was to eliminate them and change the name of the island back to the original Aleut name, Hawadak. 
 ''We live off the land, so this can really be a problem,'' said Peter Gabe Tetoff, a St. Paul resident who works for the island's tribal government as the island ''sentinel.'' 
 Mr. Tetoff oversees the seal hunting, which is strictly regulated, and once a month checks the rat traps, placed in tall bright yellow canisters scattered around the island.
 Mr. Tetoff has not yet come upon a rat.
 ''We haven't caught anything yet,'' he said. ''And that's a good thing.''

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Fishing Banned Near Spill Site
 ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) -- State regulators from the the Division of Commercial Fisheries have banned commercial fishing in the Bering Sea near the wreckage of the grounded freighter. More than 210,000 gallons is believed to have leaked so far.
 The order affects the Pacific cod, black rockfish and fisheries for other groundfish that would have opened Saturday. Also closed will be the Makushin Bay and Skan Bay tanner crab fishery, which had been scheduled to open Jan. 15.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 2, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about an invasion of rats in Alaskan islands misstated the name of an animal for which rats create an especial health risk. It is the Steller sea lion, not stellar.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Gabe Tetoff, who works for the St. Paul tribal government as the island ''sentinel,'' checks and resets the island's rat traps once a month. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
Kent Sundseth, a biologist with the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge, on rat patrol. Right, a rat with the carcass of a crested auklet. (Photo by Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge)
 (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Map of St. Paul Island highlighting St. Paul: Only six rats have been caught in St. Paul. But ''it just takes one.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); RODENTS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); MAMMALS (89%); BIRDS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL SPILLS (77%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); ANIMALS (76%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) Water Pollution; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Birds; Freighters; Rats

PERSON: Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); BERING SEA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%) Bering Sea; St Paul Island (Alaska)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



620 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Old Songs Generate New Cash For Artists

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
Three years ago, the singer and songwriter Suzanne Vega received a $41 payment from an agency called SoundExchange. It was so small she did not notice it in the accounting from her manager. The next year the payment was bigger, and bigger still the year after that. 
 ''Now it's up to $800,'' she said by telephone from her home in Manhattan. ''I wasn't even aware of it until recently.'' 
 The money Ms. Vega received was royalties earned from satellite and Internet radio, a growing source of income that many artists and record labels are just beginning to notice. 
 The amount paid by SoundExchange, the sole collector and distributor of these royalties, is a fraction of what is made in royalties by composers and publishers from traditional radio, but it has grown significantly in recent years with the rise and expansion of the satellite radio services XM and Sirius.
 The main difference with the new royalties, though, is that they are paid not to composers and publishers but to the performers -- the singers and musicians in a song -- and the copyright holder of the recording, which in most cases is a record label. 
 SoundExchange, a nonprofit agency in Washington, is authorized by the United States Copyright Office to collect royalties from digital broadcasters and pay them directly to performing artists. Founded in 2000 and initially part of the Recording Industry Association of America, SoundExchange made its first payments in 2001 and, after a slow beginning, has begun to double its annual collections; in 2005 it expects to collect and allocate $35 million. 
 But the biggest obstacle the agency faces, it says, is getting the word out to artists and registering them for payment. These royalties for new and unfamiliar formats are a category of payment that performing artists in the United States have never had: a performance right.
 ''This is a brand-new right,'' said John Simson, the executive director of SoundExchange. ''A lot of artists are unaware of it, and we're working against 80 years of a music industry without a performance right.'' (In Europe and elsewhere around the world, performing artists are paid a royalty for radio play, but because the United States has not paid the fee in the past, it has generally not been reciprocated by other countries.) 
 In a practice well known to musicians and record companies but obscure to the public at large, traditional radio -- or ''terrestrial radio,'' as it is now known in the music industry -- pays a royalty only to a song's publishers and composers, not to its performers or the owners of the recording itself. ''When a typical Beatles song gets played on traditional radio,'' Mr. Simson said, ''John and Paul get paid royalties, but not George or Ringo.''
 Musicians and record labels have long complained of this arrangement. In the 1990's, two federal laws established a royalty for performers for Web and satellite radio and digital music services like Muzak, DMX and Music Choice. The Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 established for the first time that the performers of a song and the copyright holder of the recording would be paid a special royalty separate from those paid to songwriters and publishers. 
 The rate for this royalty, set by the librarian of Congress, is 7 cents per song per 100 listeners, for most digital services. In the abbreviated nine-month accounting period of 2004, SoundExchange (which does not pay the composer or the publisher of a song; those royalties are paid by other agencies) distributed $17.5 million collected from satellite and Web broadcasters, Mr. Simson said. 
 That number is still tiny compared with the royalties paid from traditional radio -- about $350 million a year, according to industry estimates -- but it is growing fast. The two leading satellite radio systems, XM and Sirius, which began broadcasting in 2001 and 2002, respectively, added a substantial number of listeners this year. XM says it has more than two and a half million subscribers, and yesterday Sirius announced that it had passed one million subscribers.
 Barry M. Massarsky, a music industry economist and a consultant for SoundExchange, predicted that total revenue from satellite radio alone would increase by 6 to 10 times over the next five years.
 ''Based on our research from August 2004,'' he wrote in an e-mail response to a question, ''forecasts for satellite radio revenues alone eclipse $2 billion by 2008 and $3 billion by 2010.'' Current revenue estimates for satellite radio are about $300 million for 2004, he said. Most of the money comes from subscription fees.
 But because of the novelty and unfamiliarity of the performance royalty, SoundExchange has had a difficult time getting artists to sign up for the service, and in many cases it is searching for performers to pay. The agency has a list of more than 30,000 artists to track down who are owed payments ranging from $50 to $5,000. Mr. Simson said. 
 Some of those artists, like D'Angelo, Nine Inch Nails and Men at Work, are well known and have just not filled out the necessary paperwork. But the whereabouts of many performers, particularly the ones no longer involved in the music business, are unknown. Among those being sought by SoundExchange are members of the 60's garage-rock bands the Beau Brummels and the Blues Magoos, the girl group the Shangri-Las, the young Italian singer Laura Pausini and the heirs of Dinah Washington and Mantovani.
 SoundExchange had a deadline of Friday, to sign up artists for its first accounting period, covering Feb. 1, 1996, to March 31, 2000. But there were so many artists yet to be found that this month the agency's board voted to extend the deadline to July and maybe further, Mr. Simson said.
 The details of payments for the performance royalty are still being fine tuned. By law, 50 percent of the royalty goes to the copyright holder of a recording, 45 percent goes to its ''featured performer'' and the remaining 5 percent goes to nonfeatured musicians like backup singers and session players. This distinction brings yet more complications for SoundExchange. 
 ''There are recordings where it's unclear who is the featured performer,'' Mr. Simson said. ''Like with rap, a song might be billed as Lil Jon featuring Usher featuring someone else. There might be two or three featured artists on the recording. Do we send all the money to one artist or divide it in three? Our preference is to have an artist tell us, but in many cases we don't know.''
 The new income stream from SoundExchange has taken many performers and record labels by pleasant surprise.
 ''It's like manna from heaven,'' said Bruce Iglauer, the president and founder of Alligator Records, an independent blues label in Chicago. He said the label's most recent payment from SoundExchange, received last month, was between $5,000 and $10,000.
 ''That's not a huge amount of money,'' he said, ''but that'll pay the studio bill for a record.''
 The artists who stand to gain the most from a performance right are performers of pop classics and oldies standards who never received radio royalties before but, since hits from decades past stay in rotation, could collect significant amounts of money.
 Carl Gardner, one of the original singers in the Coasters, sang on ''Yakety Yak,'' ''Charlie Brown,'' ''Searchin','' ''Poison Ivy'' and other radio staples but did not write the songs, so he never collected a royalty when they were played on the radio. (Those songs were written by Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, who own their own publishing rights.)
 Now 76, Mr. Gardner lives in Port St. Lucie, Fla., with his wife, Veta, who is also his manager. She heard about SoundExchange and signed her husband up. Mr. Gardner said his first check from SoundExchange, a couple of years ago, was for about $300, and the amount has increased steadily since.
 ''It's peanuts,'' he said. ''But every little bit helps.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Simson, executive director of SoundExchange, says his agency has a list of 30,000 artists who are entitled to digital-radio royalties. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh for The New York Times)(pg. E10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); ROYALTIES (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); SATELLITE RADIO (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (75%); COPYRIGHT (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (75%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (74%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COPYRIGHT LAW (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%) Radio; Recordings (Audio); Royalties; Computers and the Internet; Music

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%) Soundexchange; Xm Radio (Co); Sirius (Co)

PERSON: Ben Sisario

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



621 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Hometown Of Steinbeck Is Closing Its Libraries

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SALINAS, Calif., Dec. 27 

 BODY:
Mary Jean Gamble organized the John Steinbeck historical archives and supervised the Steinbeck literature collection. After nearly 23 years with the Salinas Public Library, she may know more about ''The Grapes of Wrath'' or ''Cannery Row'' than anyone else here in Steinbeck's hometown.
 So how does she think he would have reacted to the news that the city is closing its libraries in the spring? 
 ''He'd obviously be upset,'' Ms. Gamble said. ''He knew that literature can lift and elevate the spirit and enable humans to rise above any situation. He probably even read some of the great literature at the Salinas library.''
 Facing record deficits, the City Council voted on Dec. 14 to shut Salinas's three library branches, including those named for Steinbeck and the labor leader Cesar Chavez. With all three set to close by May or June, Salinas, a blue-collar town of 150,000, could become the most populous American city without a public library.
 Steinbeck was born here in 1902. He described the area, nicknamed Salad Bowl to the Nation for the lettuce and broccoli fields nearby, as ''pastures of heaven'' and immortalized it in his 1952 novel ''East of Eden.''
 But ever since a half-cent sales tax increase to preserve city services was rejected by voters here on Nov. 2, Salinas has drawn the scorn of bibliophiles far and wide. Editorials in newspapers from New Zealand to London have condemned the library closings.
 ''It's embarrassing, not to mention inconvenient,'' said Ben Lopez, 69, a Salinas resident since 1945 who visits the Steinbeck branch at least twice a week.
 ''Where else will I go to check out material, Prunedale?'' Mr. Lopez said, referring to a relatively spartan branch of the Monterey County Free Libraries system.
 Because of Salinas's large number of poor farmworkers and immigrants, the city's libraries are popular destinations for people seeking citizenship primers, literacy courses, Internet access, after-school programs and tapes teaching English as a second language. Roughly 1,900 people visit on an average day.
 But ''the reality is that we live in a blue-collar community where people are struggling, and they're afraid of new taxes,'' Mayor Anna Caballero said. ''I don't think they realized the enormity of what we were facing.''
 Libraries around the country are encountering hard times. According to an April study by the American Library Association, libraries in 41 states absorbed more than $50 million in financing cuts in the last year, and more than 1,100 libraries have reduced operating hours or trimmed their staffs.
 Because of cutbacks in state financing combined with Salinas's rapid growth and rising health care costs, the city had to pare $8 million from its budget in the last year and faces an additional $8 million reduction in a $60 million budget for the 2005-6 fiscal year.
 Jan Neal, administrative manager at the Steinbeck branch, said the prospect that a white knight would emerge to cover the libraries' annual operating expenses of $3.2 million was remote. And although the libraries have no plans to sell their books, she is pessimistic that they could close and then seamlessly reopen if the economy improved in a year or two.
 ''Operating a library,'' Ms. Neal said, ''isn't as simple as selling cans of tomato soup at a retail store.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Salinas, Calif., a statue of John Steinbeck stands at the library branch bearing his name, where Adriana Reyes, above left, and her sister Karina Almada will find the doors closed in the spring. (Photographs by Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (89%); HISTORY (89%); LITERATURE (89%); CITIES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); MAYORS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TAX INCREASES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); MULTILINGUALISM (65%); SALES TAX (65%); TAX LAW (65%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (60%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (60%); CITIZENSHIP (51%); FARM LABOR (50%) Libraries and Librarians; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (50%)

PERSON: John (1902-68) Steinbeck; Cesar (1927-93) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (97%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) Salinas (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



622 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Washington Memo; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Through the Revolving Door, a Pot of Gold Still Awaits

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 27 

 BODY:
For a man who spent much of his childhood in public housing, Tom Ridge has done pretty well for himself. His salary as secretary of homeland security, $175,700, is more than five times what the average American earns.
 But he is about to do a whole lot better.
 After a long career in government service as a congressman, Pennsylvania governor and cabinet member, Mr. Ridge is stepping down but staying in Washington. His job prospects are stratospheric, say executive hiring experts and old Washington hands. 
 Mr. Ridge is being bombarded with offers, friends say, though he has made no commitments. If he postpones full-time employment for a turn on the lecture circuit, he could easily command $50,000 per appearance, topping his annual cabinet salary in a single week of speech making. If he dusts off his law degree and signs on as a rainmaker for a big Washington law firm, he could earn $1 million a year. And if he takes his name brand to a corporation competing for the burgeoning business of domestic security, that million could multiply many times over. 
 ''He'll have no trouble at all the first year making a seven-figure salary,'' said James E. Hall, a former chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board who now runs his own Washington lobbying firm. ''I will be surprised if he doesn't make at least five or six times his cabinet salary.'' 
 With at least 9 of 15 cabinet members stepping down, and scores of lower-level appointees and retiring members of Congress following them, the quadrennial job shuffle is proving an axiom of high-level government service: There's a pot of gold at the end of the Washington rainbow.
 This season's pay-raise champion may turn out to be Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who has styled himself the Cajun ambassador to Congress. Mr. Tauzin will become, in effect, the drug industry's ambassador, stepping down from his $158,100 legislative post and stepping up to become president of the Pharmaceutical and Research Manufacturers of America for an estimated $2 million a year.
 The connections and expertise gained from government service are so valued by industry that the temptation to stick around Washington and collect a big paycheck can be overwhelming. Some appointees come to view government service as an investment, counting on the eventual payoff.
 ''It's like 'Cast Away' without the rescue -- you get to Island Washington and you stay,'' said Paul C. Light, professor of public service at New York University, who led a major Brookings Institution study of presidential appointees. ''Take out your trade association phone book. They come, spend a couple of years in government and then cash in.''
 Dr. Light says the proportion of presidential appointees who live in the Washington area before their appointments and stay on afterward has been rising since the 1960's. That worries him. ''You're not bringing in the public-spirited amateurs the founding fathers anticipated would run the government,'' he said.
 Yet the pattern of the federal insider who sticks around to pull strings with former government colleagues dates at least from the time of Thomas G. Corcoran, the aide to Franklin D. Roosevelt who after 1941 made a fortune as the capital's first superlobbyist, representing clients like the United Fruit Company and the pharmaceutical industry. ''My greatest value derived from the fact that I had access to almost everybody,'' Corcoran wrote in a memoir.
 This Washington pattern feeds populist resentment. When Mr. Ridge's aides said in July that he wanted to earn more money in part to pay his two children's college costs, he found little public sympathy.
 ''If someone like you can't swing tuition, what about Joe Average?'' an editorial in The York Daily Record in Pennsylvania asked Mr. Ridge, calling him and other leaders ''out of touch.'' 
 Whatever the public perception, statistics show that cabinet and Congressional pay has lost ground for decades to that of comparable posts in other fields.
 ''The relative pay of a cabinet member has fallen a long way in the last century,'' said Gary Burtless, a Brookings Institution economist who wrote a 2002 study of presidential appointee pay. Since 1969, he calculates, a cabinet secretary's salary has sunk about 40 percent in purchasing power, even as top pay has ballooned in the private sector.
 ''New M.B.A.'s are paid more than members of the Federal Reserve board of governors,'' Dr. Burtless said. ''Average new associates in a major law firm get a higher salary than the assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy. It's kind of amazing, really.''
 Even in the nonprofit sector, departing federal bosses can get a big raise. Sean O'Keefe, the NASA administrator, is becoming chancellor of the Baton Rouge campus of Louisiana State University -- and seeing his paycheck leap to $500,000 from $158,000.
 Donna E. Shalala, who was secretary of health and human services in the Clinton administration, said she earns ''three times as much as any cabinet officer'' as president of the University of Miami. Apart from pay, she points out, the drawbacks of cabinet service include housing costs in the sky-high Washington market and weathering a grueling confirmation process. Ms. Shalala says she paid a lawyer $20,000 just to file all the necessary disclosure forms.
 Still, Ms. Shalala said: ''Would I do it again? You bet. In a minute.''
 But Leon E. Panetta, former budget director and White House chief of staff, says several prospects for Clinton administration cabinet posts turned the offer down. ''You can usually attract people who are not far from retirement and have made a lot of money already,'' said Mr. Panetta, who now runs a public policy institute at the California State University. ''But you lose the energy and new ideas you get from younger people.'' 
 A study group headed by Paul A. Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, drew a similar conclusion last year.
 ''It is not unreasonable in our view that a secretary of state should be paid a salary that compares with a university president or that a secretary of education should earn what a superintendent of a large urban school district earns,'' Mr. Volcker's group, the National Commission on the Public Service, wrote in its report.
 But as long as departing officials land lucrative work, any move to substantially increase government pay is likely to meet with political resistance, said Thomas A. Schatz, president of Citizens Against Government Waste.
 ''It's a few years of not having million-dollar salaries,'' he said. ''When they get out, they almost always can make a lot of money.''
 ''This is not,'' Mr. Schatz added, ''George Washington going back to his farm.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Sky's the Limit''Although prominent members of the government earn at least four times the average worker's wage, connections and expertise acquired during government service can increase their earning potential many more times after leaving office.ANNUAL EARNINGS, 2003Average American worker: $34,065Member of Congress: $158,100Cabinet member: $175,700Vice president: $202,900President: $400,000University president: $459,643Partner in major Washington law firm: $850,000Corporate C.E.O.: $8,100,000(Sources by Social Security Administration, Office of Management and Budget, Chronicle of Higher Education, Hildebrandt International Inc., Business Week)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); POLITICS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) United States Politics and Government; Wages and Salaries; Government Employees; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (55%) Congress (US)

PERSON: Scott Shane

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



623 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Three Teams Have to Pay Luxury Tax

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Boston Red Sox received an extra bill after winning the World Series.
 Boston and Anaheim must pay baseball's luxury tax along with the Yankees, according to final figures compiled by Major League Baseball's commissioner's office.
 The Yankees are required to pay $25,026,352, according to a Dec. 21 memorandum sent to all major league teams. Boston owes $3,155,234 for exceeding the payroll threshold of $120.5 million, and Anaheim owes $927,059. 
 Checks for the competitive-balance tax, as it is formally known, are due at the commissioner's office by Jan. 31.
 ''The C.B.T. is now an important part of baseball's economic landscape,'' John Henry, the Red Sox' principal owner, said in an e-mail message yesterday. ''From my perspective, even though it costs us, the stronger the C.B.T. is in the future, the stronger the sport is going to be. It is a much more productive form of taxation than that of strictly revenue taxation because the economic incentives for teams are not damaged.''
 In 2003, the first year of the new luxury tax, the Yankees were the only team to pay, owing $11,798,357, according to the team's latest revised bill. Because they exceeded the threshold a second time, the Yankees were taxed at a rate of 30 percent for the amount they were over. Boston and Anaheim were taxed at a 22.5 percent rate.
 If the Yankees go over the 2005 threshold of $128 million, which appears certain, they will be taxed at a 40 percent rate.
 The Yankees also estimate they will give up about $60 million as part of baseball's revenue-sharing plan this season, meaning they will send the commissioner's office about $85 million of their estimated $315 million revenue in 2004. Boston's revenue-sharing payment is estimated at $42 million on revenue of at least $220 million.
 The Yankees easily finished ahead of other teams in the regular payroll figures for the sixth consecutive season, winding up at a record $187.9 million, $18 million above the mark they set in 2003.
 Boston, which overcame a 3-0 deficit against the Yankees in the American League Championship Series and won the World Series for the first time since 1918, was second at $130.4 million.
 Anaheim, defeated by the Red Sox in the first round of the playoffs, was third at $115.6 million, followed by the Mets ($103.2 million), Los Angeles ($101.7 million), the Chicago Cubs ($100.7 million) and Philadelphia ($97.4 million).
 St. Louis, swept by Boston in the World Series, was eighth at $92.8 million.
 At the other end, Tampa Bay finished with the lowest payroll for the third season in a row. At $24.4 million, the Devil Rays had the lowest figure for any team since 2000.
 Milwaukee was 29th at $29.6 million, down from $43.3 million, and Pittsburgh was 28th at $32.5 million, down from $53.3 million.
 Texas fell from fifth at $103.3 million to 13th at $79.2 million; Atlanta went from sixth at $98 million to 12th at $79.4 million; Seattle dropped from seventh at $97.7 million to 11th at $81.8 million; and Arizona declined from 11th at $83.8 million to 15th at $68.4 million.
 Anaheim rose from 12th at $80 million, the Cubs increased from 10th at $84 million, and Philadelphia went up from 15th at $71.5 million.
 Payrolls include salaries, prorated shares of signing bonuses, earned bonuses, buyouts of 2004 options and cash transactions.
 For the luxury tax, which is based on the average annual values of contracts and benefits for a 40-man roster, the Yankees finished with a payroll of $203.9 million. Boston was at $134.5 million and Anaheim at $124.6 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%) Baseball; Fines (Penalties)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%) Boston Red Sox; Anaheim Angels; New York Yankees

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



624 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Life as the Only Man in the Room at the P.T.A.

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Of the five dads who commented in the article, four were caring for children at or over preschool age. Many women, after a brutal financial calculation, conclude that any income they earned from working would be canceled out by fees for preschool or child care programs. They therefore stay at home, preferring to spend time with their growing children.
 Is it now the case that still youthful suburban men are making the same economic calculation? Or have the four men chosen to forgo lucrative financial careers for the joy of parenting? If so, why the concern about male isolation?
 As a former stay-at-home dad myself, I can say the best relationships they can have are with the children they are looking after.

Frank Deale
Maplewood, N.J., Dec. 22, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD CARE (88%); PARENTING (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Families and Family Life; Men

PERSON: Frank Deale

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



625 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: That Line at the Ferrari Dealer? It's Bonus Season on Wall Street

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Samantha Kleier Forbes, a 30-year-old real estate broker, was getting ready to leave for a vacation to Florida with her mother and sister when she got an urgent call. It was a client who had spent the summer scouring the Upper East Side of Manhattan for an apartment priced between $4 million and $5 million.
 The client insisted on seeing more apartments that day, but now she wanted to look in the $6 million range. Her husband, a banker at Goldman Sachs in his late 30's, had just received his year-end bonus. 
 ''Normally this time of year is dead,'' said Ms. Forbes, a vice president at Gumley Haft Kleier, a residential real estate brokerage. But this winter there is unusual buying interest that she attributes to rich Wall Street bonuses. She is cutting her end-of-the-year vacation short, so she can prepare for an onslaught of clients eager to see apartments. 
 The year-end bonus is a Wall Street tradition, and for a second consecutive year, the amounts are significant. Three major Wall Street firms -- Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns -- have reported record profits for the year and all are said to have given out handsome bonuses. 
 The totals in 2003 were already impressive: Lloyd S. Blankfein, the president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs made $20.1 million, of that only $600,000 was salary; and E. Stanley O'Neal, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch, received a bonus of $13.5 million and restricted stock worth $11.2 million on top of his $500,000 salary. At the other end of the compensation spectrum, an investment banking analyst right out of college would have made a $65,000 salary and a $35,000 bonus last year. An associate just out of business school might have made $85,000 in salary and a $115,000 bonus.
 This year, investment bankers are expected to see gains in bonuses of 10 to 15 percent, amid a year-end flurry of mergers. Fixed-income traders, who have been the best compensated Wall Street professionals in recent years, will also be amply rewarded, but their percentage gains may be smaller than those of bankers. Bonuses, of course, vary by bank, by division and by individual. They reflect the firm's profitability and the group's performance, as well as the individual's contribution. 
 This year's bonuses do not quite reach the heights touched by star bankers and traders in the heyday of the late 1990's technology bubble. But they are rich enough to persuade many of Wall Street's elite to rediscover conspicuous consumption.
 One senior trader is building a sports complex for triathlon training at his house in upstate New York. It will include a swim-in-place lap pool, a climbing wall and a fitness center. Another bought an Aston Martin. For some, upgrading real estate is the first order of business. 
 But many Wall Street professionals are urging caution, given that the bonus typically constitutes the majority of their compensation. More than a dozen bankers, all of whom would talk about their spending only on the condition of anonymity, said they were all too aware that the good times could end as quickly as they did after 2000, when a $2.5 million income could turn to $800,000 overnight. 
 ''Given the last two to three years when people figured out that this business is pretty volatile, they are going to try and bank a lot of their bonuses,'' said one managing director at a firm where bonuses have been announced. ''They've seen too many people laid off and they realize they can't just spend all their money.'' 
 It should be noted that this same banker just bought a $150,000 Aston Martin to park in his garage in Greenwich, Conn.
 Another senior banker at a different firm, who is set to receive a $2.8 million bonus, said he had bought his wife a mink coat and was planning a weeklong skiing vacation out West. But he also said he intended to save most of the money. ''We're not buying homes or boats, we're not spending on the big things,'' he said. ''We are more relaxed and generous on the small things.'' 
 Of course, small is in the eye of the beholder. While the Maybach, an exclusive line of luxury cars made by Mercedes-Benz that starts at $315,000, appears on the wish lists of many bankers, relatively less expensive models from Aston Martin, Bentley and Maserati have also been popular. Michael Parchment, general manager for Miller Motorcars, a luxury dealership in Greenwich, said demand had been soaring.
 ''It's probably up 20 to 30 percent from the same time period last year,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, production isn't up.'' The result, he said, are some unhappy bankers. 
 Wall Street bonuses are expected to total $15.9 billion in 2004 -- second only to $19.5 billion in 2000-- according to Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller of New York. In 2003, bonuses totaled $15.8 billion. Mr. Hevesi said bonuses of that magnitude were ''good news for New York.''
 ''It's all taxable income and it means that folks have more disposable income so they will spend money,'' he said. 
 Bonus season is always a particularly angst-ridden time for Wall Street. Managers haggle for more money for their employees, divisions fight for a bigger piece of the pie and bankers try to portray themselves as indispensable. In the end, few admit to being happy, at least to their bosses. 
 ''We used to say there's no amount of compensation that amounts to people saying thank you,'' said Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman Sachs partner who is now a professor of finance at New York University. ''They are either sullen or mutinous, but never quite happy.'' 
 Midlevel employees did especially well this year. Three senior-level managers at Wall Street firms said that the people who were enjoying the biggest percentage increases over all were second- and third-level associates and junior-level vice presidents. 
 The ranks of those managers had been thinned after the stock market bubble burst. But this year, a reinvigorated market meant there were too few associates and managing directors to put together client pitches. At least three banks had to guarantee bonus increases of 25 to 50 percent to prevent defections to other firms. The result is that a third-year associate who might have made $200,000 in income last year could receive $350,000 this year.
 The manager with the Aston Martin said that last year's compensation packages for associates were ridiculously low. ''You had third-year associates making $210,000 to $225,000; a lot of these guys are married and have young kids and they are working'' very hard, he said.
 Many of those associates are expected to use their new wealth to pay off debts incurred from three years of relatively meager bonuses. 
 But real estate will draw, as usual, a significant portion of the bonuses. 
 ''Usually we get five phone calls a week,'' said Richard Steinberg, a managing director at Warburg Realty Partnership who shows apartments priced from $10 million to $20 million. ''Since bonuses, we've gotten double that from hedge funds, Wall Streeters and money managers. I've gotten more phone calls since Dec. 15 than from any other year.''
 Late-night entertainment may also benefit from the rise in bonuses, given Wall Street's reputation as something of a boys' club.
 ''Certainly the Wall Street crowd is very special to us,'' said Lonnie Hanover, a representative for Scores, a high-end strip club in Manhattan. ''December is an amazing month for our business, but it's everything, it's Christmas bonuses, Christmas spirit. They have their official parties and then the unofficial party here.''
 Even the cautious are probably going to treat at least part of their bonus as play money. 
 One senior investment banker at a big Wall Street firm said he was putting this year's money ''directly into the bank.'' 
 ''I have a sailboat, a motor boat, an apartment, an S.U.V.,'' he said. ''What could I possibly need?'' After brief reflection, however, he continued: ''Maybe a little Porsche for the Hamptons house, but probably not.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Mercedes-Benz showroom in Manhattan. As Wall Street awards its year-end bonuses, car dealers, real estate agents who deal in high-end properties and some nightlife venues said they had seen a surge in business. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Wall Street Bonuses''In billionsGraph tracks bonuses from 1985-2004 (ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION)2003, 2004 data are preliminary estimates.(Source by Office of the New York State Deputy Comptroller)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (64%); DIVESTITURES (64%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); CLIMBING (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds; Bonuses; Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs & Co; Lehman Brothers; Bear Stearns & Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (58%) Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



626 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Agrees to Export Oil and Gas to China

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 27 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela wrapped up a four-day visit to China on Sunday with agreements that promise to open Venezuela's oil and natural gas fields to China. 
 Under the agreements, Chinese companies will gain development rights to 15 oil fields in eastern Venezuela, and China will also be allowed to build oil refineries there. 
 President Chavez praised the agreements as an opportunity to reduce his country's dependence on oil sales to the United States, which has opposed his government's leftist policies. He said Venezuela also invited China to help Venezuela establish a government-owned oil corporation.
 China has been trying to ensure greater access to oil supplies abroad to satisfy the growing demand of its booming economy. Venezuela offered to export 120,000 barrels of oil a month to China, and President Chavez said his country was planning to expand a pipeline across Panama to speed oil shipments to China across the Pacific Ocean. 
 Venezuela exports 60 percent its oil production to the United States. The amount of oil that President Chavez offered comes to less than 0.2 percent of the 2.7 million barrels that China is expected to import this year. Oil imports by China are about a third higher than last year, and account for close to half of its total oil consumption.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in World Business on Tuesday about a decision by Venezuela to open its oil and natural-gas fields to China misstated the extent of China's oil imports. They are 2.7 million barrels a day, not a year. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, in Beijing to sign an oil agreement, unveiled a bust of Simon Bolivar, the Venezuelan revolutionary hero who is known as the South American George Washington. (Photo by Ng Han Guan/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); POLITICS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CONSUMPTION (68%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Pipelines; Refineries; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Sales

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) Chris Buckley; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) China; Panama; Pacific Ocean

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



627 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Return That Ill-Fitting Gift? Maybe Not

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
Tina Orkin thought she was making a routine return. She had her receipt, the tags were on the item, the item was undamaged and she was within the 60-day time period set for such transactions.
 But after scanning her driver's license, the clerk at the Express clothing store told Ms. Orkin that her return was denied. 
 For an explanation, Ms. Orkin was told to call a toll-free telephone number at the Return Exchange, a company that uses a database to monitor returns and flags some for denial. Each retailer that signs up for the company's service determines the criteria -- like the frequency of returns and the value of the items being returned -- for denying an exchange.
 The service -- which consumer advocates say is being used by companies like Express, a division of Limited Brands; KB Toys, the Sports Authority, Staples and Guess -- has been criticized for monitoring shoppers and accused of blacklisting. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York has asked the Federal Trade Commission to investigate the practice and has proposed legislation to require stores that limit returns to clearly warn shoppers before they make a purchase.
 With the holiday return season in full swing, the monitoring is cited as an example of how retailers are getting tougher on returns and exchanges in an effort to combat fraud. Retailers say return abuse is an increasing problem, whether it involves a shopper who purchases a dress and returns it after wearing it once to a party to large-scale rings that steal items and then return them for cash.
 ''I'm concerned about the 99 percent of consumers who are not abusing the system,'' said Edgar Dworsky, a former assistant attorney general in Massachusetts and founder of ConsumerWorld.org, an Internet public service site. ''It's the wrong size, the wrong color, the mother bought clothing for kids who didn't want it.''
 He said consumers returning gifts this holiday season ''may be in for a nasty surprise,'' adding that ''the stores are really cracking down on returns from this extreme of using a blacklist to the slicing and dicing of return dates for different product categories.''
 He noted that this season, consumers may confront more complicated return policies and more restrictive policies regarding the return of expensive electronic items like computers and digital cameras. In addition, he said, more companies are charging restocking fees and some have shortened return periods.
 As for what he calls ''slicing and dicing'' -- different deadlines for different types of items -- he uses Best Buy as an example. Consumers have until Jan. 8 to return items such as camcorders and digital cameras; all other items bought since Nov. 1 may be returned until Jan. 24. Computers must be returned within 14 days and are excluded from the holiday policy. In addition, certain items have a 15 percent restocking fee.
 Jay Musolf, a spokesman for Best Buy, said the staggered return policy was developed to give consumers more time to get merchandise back to the store. Typically, they have only 30 days on items except computers, which must always be returned within 14 days.
 Scott Krugman, a spokesman for the National Retail Federation, said the organization estimated that retailers lose an estimated $16 billion annually to fraud on returns, although he agreed that the vast majority of consumers making returns do so legitimately.
 King Rogers, a retail consultant, said, ''Consumers are going to find more stores with tighter, more restrictive return policies than they found last year. When you look at the economics of it, $16 billion a year in losses, they have to tighten up.''
 For retailers, the Return Exchange presents an attractive option to help stem such losses. Officials with the software company, which is based in Irvine, Calif., declined to be interviewed and referred a questioner to their Web site, www.returnexchange.com.
 The company gathers, analyzes and stores information regarding return behavior, according to retailers who use the service. In stores using the technology, trademarked as Verify-1, customers making returns are asked for their driver's license or state identification, which is swiped into a machine and recorded by the company. 
 Owen Davis, a spokesman for Staples, which is based in Framingham, Mass., said the company started introducing it ''maybe a year and half ago to counter return fraud.''
 ''It only applies to those returns without a receipt and it's only in select stores,'' he said.
 But consumer advocates voiced a range of concerns, from failure of merchants to notify consumers their return activity was being monitored to the possibility that shoppers would be unfairly singled out.
 ''Consumers don't have any sense of rules for this new return or exchange reporting mechanism,'' said Jordana Beebe, communications director for Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a public advocacy group in San Diego. ''Oftentimes people won't know they've transgressed this invisible boundary until they're making a return and it is declined.''
 Ms. Orkin, who has two daughters, 18 and 22, and who lives in suburban Los Angeles, said she was denied after six transactions: four returns, one exchange and one price adjustment.
 She said she shopped frequently at Express and estimated that in the one-year period being examined she and her daughters spent nearly $1,000 at stores in the chain.
 ''My issue is that there was nothing in the store to say this was their policy. You were simply denied,'' she said. ''What's the number you can't return after? Is it three items? Is it four? Can you have 1,000 purchases and still be denied on the same number of returns as someone with five purchases?''
 Anthony Hebron, a spokesman for Limited Brands, said the Express program was intended to track abnormal return behavior by looking at the total number of returns, where the returns were made (they're watching for returns in a variety of places) and the value of the returns. He said the company's return-tracking practices were now clearly stated in stores and on receipts. 
 Mr. Hebron said the company began using Return Exchange because customers were complaining that it was taking too long to make returns, which involved writing out their personal information, and because the company felt it would be a more secure way of handling this information.
 ''There is no blacklist,'' he said, noting that the process was supposed to protect consumers as well. ''You get a red flag and when you call Return Exchange they send you a summary. Part of that is to identify abuse.''
 Good customers can call customer relations to clear the matter and be placed on a V.I.P. list to prevent problems in the future.
 Ms. Orkin, however, said she was so offended by the practice that she would not bother.
 ''I found it infuriating. I still don't know the grounds for the denial,'' she said. ''I won't go back.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The season for returns and exchanges has arrived. Several top retailers are using the services of Return Exchange, a company that uses its database to monitor returns and also flag some for denial. (Photo by David Morris/The Killeen Daily Herald -- Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (63%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Behavior; Consumer Protection; Retail Stores and Trade; Blacklisting; Law and Legislation; Frauds and Swindling

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%) Express Stores; Limited Brands; Kb Toys Inc; Sports Authority Inc; Staples Inc; Guess Inc; Return Exchange (Co); Federal Trade Commission

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (71%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



628 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: The Cabinet of Incuriosities

BYLINE: By Ron Suskind. 
Ron Suskind is the author of ''The Price of Loyalty.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AS President Bush remakes his administration for his second term, the most important member of his new cabinet may turn out to be the one he was unwilling -- or unable -- to replace: Treasury Secretary John Snow.
 In some ways, Mr. Snow was the first selection of this new cabinet, just now settling into its full ensemble. Mr. Snow's prenuptial agreement, when he replaced the obstreperous Paul O'Neill two years ago, is similar to the ones his newly arrived (or at least newly promoted) second-term colleagues have just signed: all policies come from the White House. Read the script with ardor and good cheer. 
 As Mr. Bush learned in his first term, this is a difficult agreement for some of America's most accomplished people to sign. They may be publicly hailed for their innovation and decisiveness, but those qualities are rarely demanded in their cabinet jobs. Consequently, cabinet members often feel like imposters. This president's mission is to tame the unwieldy federal bureaucracy, not empower it. 
 One way he has done this is to weaken cabinet members themselves, often by allowing them to announce policies that he has then publicly repudiated -- a tactic he used, for instance, with Secretary of State Colin Powell over administration policy toward North Korea. Not surprisingly, many traditional high achievers end up frustrated. Recruitment of others has proved difficult. The result is the second-term cabinet: an odd collection of quiet tacticians and loyal friends.
 This has significant implications in how the government is run -- and the Treasury Department offers a glimpse of what other parts of the executive branch are fast becoming. Just as a White House is defined by its president, departments were often reflections of their secretaries. Over the past two years, Treasury -- like state under Mr. Powell -- has become a neutered giant, looking for direction from an often distracted or otherwise engaged White House. Meanwhile, the policy arms of entire parts of the government have been withering as career staffers leave for jobs where they can at least use their expertise and training.
 Mr. Bush's style of top-down management means that cabinet departments are no longer reflections of their secretaries but of the president himself -- or, more precisely, his will. It's a system that many corporate chief executives would envy (or certainly did in the 1970's, when Mr. Bush was at Harvard Business School), and it just may be Mr. Bush's most significant legacy.
 Yet such an arrangement creates its own set of problems, especially in the public sector. Mr. Snow, for example, after two years traveling the nation and world promoting the president's policies, was suddenly seen as inadequate in the post-election glow. The centerpieces of the president's second term -- Social Security reform and an overhaul of the tax code -- would both require the support of a cabinet secretary who was more than a mere mouthpiece.
 Mr. Snow, though he is a former chief executive and has a doctorate in economics, was not considered to be up to the task of guiding two of the most ambitious domestic policy proposals in decades through Congress and Wall Street. Unattributed quotations to this effect began to leak from the White House, and names of possible replacements made headlines. Mr. Snow was cast adrift, rescued only when some of the more prominent names let it be known they were not interested in his job.
 The unspoken concern at the center of this episode: maybe loyalty is not enough. Maybe the president needs to vest his authority in someone who can actually help sail the ship of state on these two initiatives, someone with autonomous and irrefutable credibility in areas where the president -- electoral mandates notwithstanding -- could use a boost.
 The president, affirming Mr. Snow, has decided otherwise. Power, as Mr. Bush sees it, justifies itself. No boost required. It is undercut, in fact, by even a reasonable expression of need. 
 Or by probing questions. The president chose Bernard Kerik to lead the Department of Homeland Security because he was ''a good man,'' an intangible, gut-check standard that the president also applies to judicial nominees and world leaders. When it emerged that Mr. Kerik's nomination was doomed, he withdrew to spare Mr. Bush further embarrassment. He thus proved that he possessed the very qualities of personal loyalty (if not necessarily honesty) that recommended him to the president in the first place.
 Whatever the roots of Mr. Bush's overriding devotion to loyalty, it partly stems from his disdain for the concerns of old-style meritocrats, the kind of people who wince when the president places his confidence in someone like Mr. Kerik. Mr. Bush has never been comfortable in America's so-called meritocracy. Undistinguished in college, business school and in the private sector, he spent nearly 30 years sitting in seminar rooms and corporate suites while experts and high achievers held forth.
 Now it appears that he's having his revenge -- speaking loudly in his wave of second-term cabinet nominations for a kind of anti-meritocracy: the idea that anyone, properly encouraged and supported, can do a thoroughly adequate job, even better than adequate, in almost any endeavor.
 It's an empowering, populist idea -- especially for those who, for whatever reason, have felt wrongly excluded or disrespected -- that is embodied in the story of Mr. Bush himself: a man with virtually no experience in foreign affairs or national domestic policy who has been a uniquely forceful innovator in both realms.
 History will judge whether his actions are visionary or reckless. In the meantime, he is applying his intensely personal method for judging merit to pick a group of largely no-name cabinet officials for his triumphal second term. This is not to disparage any of the president's selections. They are uniformly men and women of sound credential and solid achievement.
 But even well-known cabinet appointees like Condoleezza Rice, a respected but inexperienced national security adviser, and Alberto Gonzales, a reverential and competent White House lawyer, have few credentials more important than the trust and confidence of Mr. Bush. Mr. Snow, though undistinguished in leading a shrunken Treasury Department, will now shepherd Social Security and tax reform as the president's top domestic appointee. Michael Leavitt, the current administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, is already vetted and shifts easily to head the Department of Health and Human Services. Margaret Spellings, the president's longtime Texas confidant, moves to the Department of Education despite often being overwhelmed as head of the Domestic Policy Council. And Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld -- a surviving first-term heavyweight, who may have worked too hard telling Mr. Bush what he wanted to hear -- is increasingly left with only the president's trust and confidence as thin armor.
 Now that Mr. Bush has won his final campaign and holds high a gleaming national mandate, he can be ever more himself. And for Mr. Bush, personality is destiny. What you do is not as important as whether you are deemed morally sound and trustworthy. In other words, a ''good'' man -- or woman -- beats a leading expert every time. Welcome to the new meritocracy.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lars Leetaru) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); MARRIAGE (71%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); SOCIAL SECURITY (50%) United States Politics and Government; Appointments and Executive Changes; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Presidents and Presidency (US); United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Ron Suskind; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



629 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Yushchenko Wins 52% of Vote; Rival Vows a Challenge

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Dec. 27 

 BODY:
With virtually all votes counted, Viktor A. Yushchenko, the opposition leader, was Ukraine's presumptive president-elect on Monday. But his opponent, Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich, refused to accept the results and said he would challenge them in court.
 Mr. Yushchenko led Mr. Yanukovich by 52.06 percent to 44.14 percent, a lead of more than 2.2 million votes, according to the Central Election Commission, which by late Monday had counted 99.89 percent of the ballots cast. 
 Kiev was calm after weeks of demonstrations and civil disobedience, and there were signs that the evident outcome of the election on Sunday, the third round of voting for Ukraine's president within two months, was being recognized abroad. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the election appeared free and fair. The Foreign Ministry of Belarus, Ukraine's neighbor and an authoritarian state that often echoes Moscow, told the Interfax news agency that it respected the decision of the Ukrainian people.
 The European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, also signaled his satisfaction, saying Ukraine's leaders, after months of intrigue and scandal, had in the end ''acted with a high degree of responsibility.''
 Importantly, the leaders of a prominent team of international election observers declared that the conduct of the voting on Sunday was a substantial improvement over previous rounds.
 ''The people of this great country can be truly proud that yesterday they took a great step toward free and democratic elections by electing the next president of Ukraine,'' said Bruce George, special coordinator of observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
 The organization's assessment was crucial to the election's legitimacy. In the previous round of voting, on Nov. 21, Western observers cited widespread fraud and abuse of state power on behalf of Prime Minister Yanukovich, who had claimed victory.
 Their report lent credibility to Mr. Yushchenko's opposition movement and his supporters' mass demonstrations, provided a basis for an international outcry, and helped lead to a complaint to the Supreme Court, which nullified the voting.
 This time, in a reversal of the Nov. 21 election, it was Mr. Yanukovich who was refusing to accept the outcome. Speaking Monday evening at his headquarters, he asserted that a huge number of Ukrainians had been denied access to the polls, either by restrictive new voting rules or by intimidation by Mr. Yushchenko's supporters. He said he would file a challenge to the Supreme Court, seeking cancellation of the results. 
 ''This is a crying fact: Millions of Ukrainian citizens did not have a chance to vote,'' he said. ''They were thrown out. They were humiliated. There were more than 4,800,000 of such people.'' 
 Mr. Yanukovich's claim did not square with the reports of international observers or journalists, and although for a moment Kiev seemed bound for a continued standoff in this protracted race, the prime minister's challenge appeared destined to go forward without independent corroboration or European support.
 Furthermore, while Mr. Yanukovich appeared to be following the Yushchenko playbook in protesting the results, there were other unmistakable differences. Mr. Yushchenko's complaints last month were matched not just by Western leaders but by a huge outpouring of support in Ukraine. Parliament also took up his case. 
 But Mr. Yanukovich was stepping into a much more lonely fight. He mustered few supporters in the capital on Monday, and Parliament ignored him, announcing plans through a spokesman to prepare for Mr. Yushchenko's inauguration. 
 Mr. George of the European organization, speaking generally about critics of the latest vote, also noted that anyone hoping to overturn the election would soon face a real test: providing evidence. ''If you make an allegation about misconduct, then tell us where it took place, how it took place and who made that criminal act,'' he said. ''If you cannot do that, withdraw the allegation.''
 It was easier to make allegations, he said, then to demonstrate them with facts.
 Mr. George did say there were some problems with the election, including errors on voting lists and confusion over procedures for invalids voting at their homes. But without the independent corroboration of the sort of widespread fraud seen in the previous two rounds and given Mr. Yushchenko's strong margin of victory, the prospects for a challenge seemed poor.
 The departing president, Leonid D. Kuchma, who had energetically backed Mr. Yanukovich in the previous two rounds of voting, made no public appearances or statements on Monday. 
 Mr. Yushchenko, who had claimed victory before his supporters in Independence Square early Monday, remained out of public view as well through the rest of the day.
 Political analysts noted that while the election challenge runs it course, Mr. Yushchenko, who has endured poisoning by dioxin and orchestrated fraud against his effort to gain the presidency, must now turn to the difficult tasks of governing.
 His victory was clear, but it was not as overwhelming as voter surveys at the polls and early tallies had suggested. With the prime minister receiving more than 44 percent of the total, it was evident that a good part of the country opposed the presumptive future president.
 Moreover, the results showed a deep geographic split, with the south and the east voting for Mr. Yanukovich by wide margins. 
 Mr. Yushchenko, facing a polarized electorate, must now select a cabinet and a prime minister and begin trying to forge a new, post-Kuchma identity for the country. 
 ''Viktor Yushchenko is the new president of the new Ukraine,'' said Dr. Grigory Nemyria, director of the Center for European and International Studies here. ''Yushchenko himself is important. But what is more important, long term, is the new Ukraine.''
 Dr. Nemyria said Mr. Yushchenko must try to modernize the economy in industrial regions in the east and south, an area he described as a rust belt reminiscent of Pittsburgh decades ago. He said that task would be especially difficult, because the region was where Mr. Yushchenko's support was weakest.
 He also said the mass of people who turned out to support Mr. Yushchenko's challenge to the incumbent government, which is largely regarded as oppressive and corrupt, meant that there were high expectations that he would bring swift and clear change, in part by moving against corruption and creating open and independent civic institutions. 
 ''One could call it a Herculean task,'' Dr. Nemyria said.
 First he must wait to be declared the official winner, and for the court challenge to be examined by the Supreme Court. On one score, he seemed secure: the capital appeared to be with him.
 A few of Prime Minister Yanukovich's supporters did show up on Monday to wave his distinctive blue and white flags near his headquarters. But they numbered only a few dozen, and seemed more worried than inspired. 
 Mr. Yanukovich had previously said he planned to bring huge numbers of his supporters to Kiev in the event he lost the race, but his supporters on the streets on Monday said they were local people, and they showed little signs of organization or preparation.
 On the corner outside the prime minister's headquarters, three young men had only one banner to wave, and they shared a single bottle of beer.
 ''There were falsifications on the Yushchenko side,'' said one of them, Doniyel Yashikov, 18, a student at the Interior Ministry's law enforcement academy. ''I will never recognize him.''
 Asked how he would resist, Mr. Yashikov said he would go to rallies. There were no rallies in sight, just cars passing by with their drivers and passengers largely ignoring him. Many of their antennas bore the orange ribbons of the Yushchenko campaign.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A supporter of Viktor A. Yushchenko handed out roses of his party's color yesterday at a rally in Kiev. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); POLITICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); SCANDALS (71%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%) Elections; Politics and Government; Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (94%); JAVIER SOLANA (67%) C J Chivers; Viktor A Yushchenko; Viktor F (Prime Min) Yanukovich; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Javier Solana

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (94%) UKRAINE (99%); EUROPE (93%); BELARUS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Ukraine; Kiev (Ukraine); Belarus; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



630 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Sirius Says It Has Passed Million Mark In Subscribers

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Shares of Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. rose sharply yesterday after the company said that it had surpassed a year-end goal of attracting one million subscribers. 
 Shares of Sirius, the second-biggest pay-radio company, jumped as high as $8.48 during the day, before closing at $8.10, up 15 cents. 
 XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., the biggest satellite-radio company, said it met its year-end goal of 3.1 million customers. Shares of XM Satellite fell 19 cents yesterday, to $39.73. Sirius is trying to lure users with programming and has spent more than $720 million in the last 12 months to gain new attractions, including National Football League games and Howard Stern. Sirius, which hired Mel Karmazin, the former president of Viacom, as chief executive in November, said holiday sales of portable receivers that plug into home and car stereos raised its subscriber numbers. 
 ''We've been caught up in the hype of the satellite business,'' John LaForge, a fund manager at FA Asset Management in Sarasota, Fla., said in an interview. Sirius's stock ''is way, way over its head.'' 
 Mr. LaForge said he had shorted the shares of Sirius, based in New York, betting the stock price would fall. 
 Neither XM Satellite nor Sirius, both of which offer nationwide digital signals, has posted a quarterly profit. 
 Sirius's shares have more than doubled since the company signed Mr. Stern to a five-year contract on Oct. 6. XM Satellite shares have gained 37 percent since then. 
 Sirius and XM Satellite are trying to lure customers to buy units in retail stores and persuade automakers to install receivers as factory options. The companies need more subscribers to pay for programming like Mr. Stern's show, Mr. LaForge said. 
 Together, Sirius and XM Satellite ''need 40 to 50 million subscribers to make the model work,'' Mr. LaForge said. The subscriber counts announced yesterday do not ''change the economics of the game.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE RADIO (96%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); RETAILERS (68%) Radio; Satellites

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (98%); XM SATELLITE RADIO HOLDINGS INC (72%); VIACOM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%) Sirius Satellite Radio Inc; Xm Satellite Radio Holdings Inc

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (98%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (98%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004



631 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Pentagon Plans to Reduce F/A-22 Fighter Program
To offset escalating deficits and the growing costs of the war in Iraq, the Pentagon said that it planned to sharply cut the Air Force's F/A-22 aircraft program.
 The fighter, known as the Raptor, costs about $258 million a plane. That is based on an overall cost of $71.8 billion, and the Air Force's plans to buy 277 Raptors. [Page A14.]

Blockbuster Threatens Hostile Bid
Shares of Blockbuster fell 6 cents, to $9.33, after the company threatened to make a $700 million hostile takeover offer for Hollywood Entertainment. Blockbuster demanded access to Hollywood Entertainment's books and said that it would start a tender offer to buy the shares for $11.50 each if the company does not cooperate. Shares of Hollywood Entertainment rose 7 cents, to $13.16. [C3.]

Adelphia Proposes Settlements
Adelphia Communications has proposed paying $300 million to resolve lawsuits by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department. [C2.]

Associated Press Sued for Photos
Six members of the Navy Seals and two of their wives sued The Associated Press and a reporter for distributing photographs taken by one of the Seals showing apparent mistreatment of prisoners in Iraq. [A16.]

F.D.A. Backs Bone Growth Device
The Food and Drug Administration approved the use of electrical stimulation of bone growth to improve the success rate of spinal fusion operations in the neck. [C3.]

Court Bars Web Phone Control
A federal appeals court upheld a lower court ruling that prohibits Minnesota from regulating Internet-based phone calling as if it were a traditional telecommunications service. [C3.]

Head of Edward Jones to Step Down
Douglas E. Hill, left, will step down as managing general partner of Edward D. Jones at the end of 2005, and will pay about $3 million of a $75 million settlement with the Justice Department over claims tied to the company's mutual fund sales practices. The S.E.C. found the firm created a conflict of interest by failing to disclose a revenue-sharing deal with seven preferred mutual fund groups. [C2.]

Court Asked to Dismiss Yukos Case
Deutsche Bank has asked a bankruptcy court in Houston to dismiss the filing of Yukos because it has no Texas ties beyond a few million dollars in bank accounts. [C6.]

Exporter Ends Ties With Distributor
The Sichuan Changhong Electric Appliance Company, China's leading television maker, said it had ended its relationship with its American distributor, Apex Digital Inc., which Changhong says owes it $467.5 million. [C2.]

Consumer Report Lifts Stocks
The Standard & Poor's 500 jumped 8.62 points, to 1,213.54; the Dow Jones industrials gained 78.41 points, to 10,854.54; and the Nasdaq composite added 22.97 points, to 2,177.19. [C6.]

The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence jumped to 102.3 in December, well above the 94 economists had expected. [C2.]

Fannie Mae Auditor Noted Flaws
Fannie Mae said KPMG had ''observed deficiencies'' in its third-quarter bookkeeping before being fired as its auditor. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,854.54 up 78.41Nasdaq composite -- 2,177.19 up 22.9710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.29% Unch.The euro -- $1.3609 down 0.0011The dollar -- 103.03 yen down 0.07Graph tracks Blockbuster's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LITIGATION (88%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TENDER OFFERS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (69%); US FDA APPROVALS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (56%); OAO NK YUKOS (52%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (66%) TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (67%); SICHUAN, CHINA (55%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



632 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: An Aesthetic Watchdog in the City Planning Office

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
She is loath to go into detail, but Amanda M. Burden is clearly not crazy about the design for a Jets stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan. As director of the City Planning Department, she has built her reputation on concern for aesthetics: how a building looks, how it relates to the street, how it serves the people who use its public spaces. The proposed $1.4 billion stadium, a colossal complex with blinking images on its facade, has been faulted by critics for its visual noise and the way it would block views of the Hudson. 
 Yet much is riding on the proposal. For one thing, it is a pet project of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his deputy mayor, Daniel L. Doctoroff, who say it would advance New York's bid for the 2012 Olympics. 
 And Ms. Burden is a good soldier. In a recent interview, she would go only so far as to say the stadium could be ''even better.'' 
 ''We've been pushing the Jets very, very hard to improve the design -- I am very intent on doing that,'' she said. ''It should be an exciting experience.''
 Such is the balancing act for the city planning director as she strives to raise the bar for new architecture in New York. Yet Ms. Burden is making a significant impact, architects and planning experts say. She has not only repeatedly sent architects back to the drawing board, but also spurred commercial development in once-dormant neighborhoods like downtown Brooklyn and Long Island City, Queens; sought to preserve the character of others like the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx through zoning changes; and improved plazas and parks by backing the current renovation of Columbus Circle, for example, or by proposing new design guidelines for all privately owned public spaces. 
 ''I believe that by raising expectations, higher standards will become the norm,'' she said in an interview at her office. 
 Compared with a Robert Moses, the think-big public works czar who imposed a sweeping vision on highways and parks across the city from the 1930's to the 60's, Ms. Burden might be considered an aesthetic watchdog. ''She is the design conscience of New York,'' said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, an influential private research agency that opposes the stadium. ''We just haven't had this design sensibility in City Hall -- maybe ever. You're seeing that in the quality of public and private design, whether it's an office building in Midtown or the Brooklyn waterfront.''
 Historically, the City Planning Department has focused more on responding to developers' proposals than on trying to mold them. The last time the city took an aggressive role in architecture was in the 1960's, when the heady social ideals of urban planning drew many architects to public service in the Lindsay administration. 
 ''It's hard because New York doesn't believe in planning,'' said Hugh Hardy, a prominent architect. ''The plan was the grid -- and to make money by increasing density.''
 In devising urban design master plans, Ms. Burden has set enforceable guidelines like those for Hudson Yards that mandate retail spaces with a sense of continuity and transparency, ample sidewalk widths, trees along the street, adequate tower setbacks and limits on tower widths. Without Ms. Burden, there might be no High Line project, its supporters say, a plan for a 22-block elevated garden stretching from the downtown meatpacking district to 34th Street on Manhattan's West Side. Friends of the High Line, a nonprofit group, says that Ms. Burden made a compelling case for the project to Mayor Bloomberg, who initially opposed it, and fostered the design competition that attracted top-flight architects, including the winners, Diller, Scofidio & Renfro.
 Other prominent commissions awarded through Ms. Burden's influence include Richard Rogers's new East River waterfront in Lower Manhattan -- which calls for better access, amenities and open space -- and the transformation of Staten Island's Fresh Kills landfill into 2,200 acres of new park and recreation. Ms. Burden is overseeing the master planning process for both. 
 Some might assume that Ms. Burden coasted into office because of her social connections: she is a stepdaughter of the CBS founder William S. Paley, the former wife of media moguls (Carter Burden, then Steve Ross) and the companion of Charlie Rose, the talk show host, with whom she is frequently photographed at glamorous events. 
 But she was hardly a shoo-in: she had supported Mark Green, Mr. Bloomberg's opponent, in the mayoral race, and Mr. Doctoroff wanted Alexander Garvin, then chief planner for the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. 
 Yet she had earned her credentials, overseeing the planning of Battery Park City for 10 years, starting in 1983, while pursuing her master's degree in urban planning at Columbia University. 
 And although her elegant black suits and demeanor are not what you might ordinarily expect to find under the fluorescent lights at public hearings, she appears to be holding her own, even in politically charged projects like rebuilding ground zero. 
 ''She's been a strong advocate for a large amount of public space -- ensuring that it is integrated within the site but also with the Lower Manhattan community,'' said Kevin M. Rampe, the president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. At the same time, Ms. Burden is fiercely discreet, those who have worked with her say. On the stadium, for example, she has made a point of keeping her differences with Mr. Doctoroff under wraps. 
 In person, Ms. Burden is similarly opaque: expansive about her projects but circumspect about personal matters or interdepartmental dynamics. 
 Ms. Burden also serves as chairwoman of the City Planning Commission, the department's policymaking body, through which she sets design standards. 
 ''Good architecture is good economic development,'' she said. 
 Historically, developers have chafed at being saddled with prominent architects, because architects can slow the building process with design concerns. But these days, they often have little choice.
 ''Developers now go to better architects because they know excellence is required,'' said Frederic Schwartz, a Manhattan architect.
 John E. Zuccotti, co-chairman of the Brookfield Properties Corporation, the largest downtown landlord, said Ms. Burden's design agenda occasionally made waves because it slowed or complicated the building process. 
 ''It sometimes annoys people because the City Planning Department is not supposed to focus on architecture,'' said Mr. Zuccotti, himself a former Planning Commission chairman. ''It's sometimes not the most efficient approach, but she has her role. Only time will tell whether she pushes it too far.''
 By many accounts, she has been careful not to push it too far with Mr. Doctoroff, who as deputy mayor for economic development is a booster for timely construction. Mr. Doctoroff said he and Ms. Burden had clashed ''from time to time'' on such matters but added that the disagreements were ''nothing terribly dramatic.'' 
 ''She clearly pushes people,'' he said, ''but I think in ways that most have found helpful.''
 ''Sure it costs more,'' Mr. Doctoroff said of the design process. ''It's more difficult when you hire a famous architect; you have sometimes less control over your project. You're dealing with people who have a real desire to put art into buildings, and that complicates the building process.''
 Ms. Burden also makes a point of sounding out neighborhoods about development projects, like asking Harlem residents about their hopes for 125th Street. ''The community is not going to buy in unless it reflects their culture,'' she said.
 Being heard on development projects doesn't mean residents are happy about them. The Greenpoint Waterfront Association for Parks and Planning, an advocacy group for North Brooklyn, has yet to support plans for the Greenpoint-Williamsburg waterfront, a residential and park project. The group argues that the plan fails to guarantee affordable housing and enough new parks and open space.
 At the same time, the community advocates say, they do not fault Ms. Burden. ''Amanda is doing her job,'' said Joseph Vance, a co-chairman of the association. ''She doesn't control the purse strings. She can only do what she can do.''
 Members of Community Board 4, which covers the Far West Side, oppose the Jets stadium but say Ms. Burden is not to blame. ''Amanda clearly has a commitment to community input into land-use planning, and that is a refreshing change from prior administrations,'' said Anna Hayes Levin, a vice chairwoman of the community board. ''But she has a boss who is determined to make this plan work and therefore has her hands tied.''
 Ms. Burden defends the project. ''This is for long-term growth -- and that's just 10 percent growth over the next 30 or 40 years,'' she said. ''We think that's the right thing to do.''
 She said she had already made a difference in the project, proposing parks on four sides and insisting on retail and active public uses to create more sidewalk vitality. 
 ''You can measure the health of the city in the vitality of the street life,'' Ms. Burden said. ''That's true in Bayside, Tottenville or on Madison Avenue. That's what people focus on -- what's right in front of them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amanda M. Burden in her office. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 The proposed design for a new Jets stadium on the Far West Side. Ms. Burden has pushed to add parks. (Photo by Kohn, Pedersen, Fox)(pg. E14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); MAYORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ZONING (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (54%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Architecture; Area Planning and Renewal; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) Amanda M Burden; Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



633 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2602 words

HEADLINE: Camden's Streets Go From Mean To Meanest

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Dec. 23 

 BODY:
If anybody was surprised that Camden was recently ranked America's most dangerous city, it wasn't the people who live here.
 In the past 12 months, there have been 53 homicides, including a 12-year-old shot to death on his porch for his radio, more than 800 aggravated assaults, including a toddler shot in the back of the head, at least 750 robberies and 150 acts of arson, more than 10,000 arrests and one glaring nonarrest -- a serial rapist on the loose downtown.
 All in a city of 79,000, nine square miles small.
 For decades, Camden has been the classic model of urban despair, a place where entire city blocks are boarded up and glassy-eyed heroin addicts roam the streets and cold, empty factories stand testament to the decaying fortunes of American industry.
 But for the last couple of years, the city, on the banks of the Delaware River opposite Philadelphia, was supposed to be getting better. The state of New Jersey recently began a $175 million bailout plan and a real estate developer is about to start a $1.3 billion redevelopment gamble that includes fancy homes and, of all things, a golf course. 
 And so Camden's latest explosion of violence, which defies most national trends, is, for all its tragic aspects, also miserably timed. The city's dream of renaissance is being interrupted by a brutal reality, and at the cusp of a supposed economic recovery, the most thriving trade remains crack cocaine.
 ''This city would collapse without it,'' said Lt. Frank Cook of the Camden police.
 Drugs are thought to be responsible for a vast majority of the city's problems, and the drug trade is picking up, detectives say, with better quality narcotics hitting the streets, big-city street gangs moving in and a new breed of criminals stepping up who are sophisticated enough to provide health benefits for crack dealers.
 In a place where poverty is so concentrated -- Camden is, essentially, one big blighted neighborhood -- the outcome seems inevitable: more drugs, more drug wars, more bodies.
 That dark formula is what caught the attention of researchers at Morgan Quitno, a group in Lawrence, Kan., that tracks national crime data. They calculated that Camden had the highest rate of violent crime per capita in 2003 among cities of 75,000 or more. And this year looks no better, with homicides up 20 percent and counting.
 ''It's not all peaches and cream out here,'' said Irene Miller, a prostitute who has been working Camden's streets for years. Local officials are close to desperate.
 ''I feel like I'm in Falluja,'' said Edwin Figueroa, Camden's police chief. ''I don't have enough soldiers. The enemy is out there. And we're fighting the same battle over and over and over again.''
 No doubt, there are countless lives caught up in this.
 Here are five.
 Yaya Kirkland used to be a chatterbox. Now she barely coos.
 She looks up from her hospital bed, blank and drooling, a tangle of tubes and wires and hoses attached to her as if she is some sort of science project. Her shiny coffee-bean eyes are wide open. Her mother puts a finger next to her lashes. But Yaya doesn't blink. Not once.
 Sometimes her nose fills up with mucus and she makes a snorting noise. Sometimes little tears run from the corners of her eyes.
 ''My baby's in pain,'' her mother says.
 Yaya, whose full name is Yahnajeah, is a 3-year-old casualty of Camden's drug wars. She was bouncing around the back seat of a car on her way home with her mother when a stray bullet fired from the doorway of a housing project drilled through the car's door and into the back of her head.
 This happened Oct. 28, at 9:35 p.m., in the Centerville section of town, a drug-infested stretch of rundown row houses and housing projects. Her mother, Nathenia Kirkland, had just picked up cheese fries and fried chicken for dinner.
 She heard, crack, crack. Two shots. Saw two flashes.
 When she whipped around to check on her daughter, Yaya was slumped over the back seat.
 ''God, please don't take my baby, please,'' Ms. Kirkland recalled screaming.
 The police didn't think the girl would live. They opened a homicide investigation.
 But Yaya held on. She survived six operations and many complications, though it is not clear if she will ever fully recover.
 ''She's conscious, but she's not conscious,'' said her great-aunt, Kathryn Blackshear. ''She can see but she can't see.''
 Ms. Kirkland is on her own now, a 26-year-old single mother looking after a wounded child in a city where social service agencies say 80 percent of children are born to single mothers, more than double the national average. She wanted to quit work but could not because she needs to pay the bills. She works at a nursing home folding sheets and wiping noses, and comes home at night to an empty apartment.
 ''I used to hear my baby playing in her room, she said. ''I used to hear Elmo.''
 She is lonely and angry and frustrated and scared.
 ''I'm always looking over my shoulder now,'' she said. ''Sometimes, when I'm driving around, I feel like it's me who's about to get shot in the head.''
 People say they know who the gunman is. But no witnesses will talk. No arrests have been made. In Camden, it's a familiar story.

A Nun's Blessings
 Sister Helen Cole is known in North Camden as Sister Charles Bronson.
 The other day she was walking down York Street with an Our Lady of Guadelupe pendant swinging from her neck, past once-beautiful peaked-roof houses now encased in burglar bars, past men in hooded sweatshirts mouthing ''white horse, white horse,'' past murals of dead boys with R.I.P. painted below their faces in huge snazzy graffiti letters, when she bumped into a neighbor.
 ''Hey, Terry,'' she said. ''Just doing a tour of the holy ground.''
 ''Sister,'' the woman replied, ''all Camden is going to be holy ground soon.''
 When somebody is killed, Sister Helen goes to the spot with a bottle of holy water. She lights a candle. She says a prayer. The spot becomes holy ground. She has turned sidewalks, street corners, porches, alleyways, weed-choked fields and even a Toyota Celica into holy ground. Lately, she has been very busy.
 She began this work in 1995 when the mother of a missing girl knocked on the convent's door for help. The girl had been raped and murdered. Sister Helen hasn't looked back since.
 ''I'm not a seeker, an ambulance chaser,'' she said. ''But I enjoy taking away pain. I hold out my hands and tell people, 'Give me your pain, put it in my hands, let it go.'''
 She calls it companioning.
 Every year on Good Friday, Sister Helen, a Roman Catholic nun, leads a Stations of the Cross procession through North Camden. People act out scenes from Christ's crucifixion and then stand on the street corners and belt out the names of known drug dealers and pray for them.
 ''I'm not stupid,'' Sister Helen said. ''I'm not going to go up to these guys and confront them. I value my life.''
 How does she even know their names?
 ''We coached them in Little League,'' she said
 Her church, Holy Name, has been running sports programs and social services in North Camden for years. It is one of the roughest neighborhoods in the city, and many houses have an unusual architectural feature: the totally fortified front porch, with burglar bars walling off not just windows and doors but the whole front part of the house. The police call them birdcages, and on many days when the streets are thick with drug dealers, it is the law-abiding citizen sitting behind bars.
 Sister Helen, 46, lives amid all this in a convent on State Street with four other nuns. They have a Christmas wreath bound to their porch with three chains.
 ''The addicts,'' she explained.
 The other day, she dropped in at La Dominicana, a corner store, with the daughter of the man who used to run it.
 ''This is where the lookout stood,'' the girl said flatly as she opened the door.
 ''This is where the robber was,'' the girl added as she walked in. ''And this is where my father got shot.''
 ''More holy ground,'' Sister Helen said.

One Man's Vision
 At the top of Camden City Hall is a saying chiseled into stone: ''In a dream I saw a city invincible.''
 Walt Whitman, Camden's most famous resident, wrote those words in 1860. Randy Primas, Camden's revitalization czar, still believes in them.
 Mr. Primas steps to his window on the 13th floor of City Hall and looks out across the rooftops. He doesn't see the killing fields of North Camden where Sister Helen lights her candles. He doesn't see the Camden that is. He sees high-rise condos rising up from the waterfront, and new office towers in front of the Philadelphia skyline, and business and people flocking to downtown instead of fleeing in a trail of taillights when the sun goes down. He sees the Camden that will be, something like the Camden that once was.
 ''You know, Camden used to make everything from a pen to a battleship,'' Mr. Primas said. ''It was a smokestack town. It had hundreds of factories. People had jobs. It worked.''
 Mr. Primas, 55, was a popular mayor in the 1980's and is among Camden's select few over the past 20 years not to be indicted. Then he moved away to the suburbs and made a lot of money working for a bank.
 Two years ago, he came back to perform miracles. So far, it's been slow going.
 He was appointed by the state to be Camden's chief operating officer, in charge of the $175 million bailout plan, with veto power over the mayor and the City Council.
 Already, he has had to take the City Council to court three times to force it to approve his plans.
 His goal is jobs.
 ''We've got to give these young men on the corners something to do,'' he said.
 He rattled off a list of businesses that had closed since the 1960's -- New York Shipyards, the Haddon book bindery, the Campbell soup factory. He remembered summer days when the produce trucks would line up at the factory and the streets would run red -- with tomato juice.
 He gave statistics of today's Camden: 20 percent of the city is unemployed; per-capita income is $9,815; half of the residents did not finish high school; one out of 20 graduated from college; 46 percent of children live in poverty.
 ''That $175 million may sound like a lot of money for this place,'' Mr. Primas went on. ''But it's going to take billions.''

Drugs and Real Estate
 Kenny Jenkins used to cut an impressive figure in his silk shirts and Versace suits, driving his $60,000 Lincoln Navigator with the $10,000 rims around the Louis Street wasteland where he grew up. According to federal prosecutors, he was one of the biggest dealers in town, raking in $300,000 a week.
 Now he is locked up and facing 30 years to life.
 Over the past few weeks, in a hushed courtroom in the Camden federal building, prosecutors have tried to methodically build a case against Mr. Jenkins, 36, painting him as the living, breathing, crack-dealing embodiment of Camden's ruin -- but with a twist.
 After amassing a mountain of cash, prosecutors said, Mr. Jenkins tried to go straight by buying rundown houses, fixing them up and selling them. The problem was, prosecutors said, he defrauded mortgage companies and home buyers every step of the way.
 They have called a string of witnesses to detail Mr. Jenkins's rise to power, starting with accounts of his humble beginnings as a high school dropout selling crack at the corner of Louis and Chestnut Streets, one of the city's most notorious intersections, to his emergence as a major player in powdered cocaine.
 ''You will hear how the profits were staggering at times, and that the cash was spent often as quickly as it came in,'' said Marc-Philip Ferzan, one of the prosecutors, at the beginning of the trial. ''Cristal Champagne at $500 a bottle, expensive cars, Mercedes-Benz, Lexus, Lincoln Navigators, S.U.V.'s, the finest designer clothes like Versace, Prada, Gucci, jewelry, Rolex watches, gold necklaces, diamond earrings, women.''
 As one police officer put it, Camden is ''the richest poorest city in the country.'' And at any given moment, the war on drugs is playing out in multiple sites across the city's compact downtown -- the federal court, the state court, the methadone clinic, the police station, the prosecutor's office, the county health bureau -- all within walking distance of one another, almost like a mini-Olympics for the narcotics game.
 But for all the drugs coursing through Camden's veins, there won't be any on display at the Jenkins trial. Despite three years of investigation, federal agents were not able to seize even a dime bag connected to him.
 ''This is a dope case with no dope,'' said his defense lawyer, Michael E. Riley. ''They don't have any physical evidence to prove Kenny is anything but a legitimate businessman in the home repair business.''
 Mr. Jenkins, who was convicted of drug dealing in 1998, was not available for comment. The other day he sat in court in a crisp dress shirt, cupping his face, rubbing his shaved head, studying the faces of the witnesses, his old friends.
 He was heard only when prosecutors played a tape recorded by an informant.
 ''There ain't nothing she can say about me,'' Mr. Jenkins said on the tape, referring to the possibility of his ex-girlfriend's testifying. ''What? I sold drugs? They know that.''

View From a Police Car
 Capt. Harry Leon does not see America winning the war on drugs. His goal is a little smaller.'' I just try to keep the corner clean where my mama lives,'' he said.
 As the sun sank behind Philadelphia's skyline, across the river but a world away, Captain Leon glided down Federal Street in his sleek black Crown Victoria, a complete mess rolling past his windows: houses half standing, half falling down, littered lots, broken down cars, teenage boys in groups with their middle-school lookouts riding bikes.
 ''We can suppress but we can't eradicate,'' said Captain Leon, who has been patrolling Camden for 15 years. A drug dealer once blew up his truck, and after that Captain Leon said his wife ''strongly suggested'' they move out of Camden. They did.
 He said the Camden Police Department constantly shifted its tactics: officers on foot, officers on bikes, officers on horseback, going hard, going soft, going in between.
 ''But they figure it out,'' he said.
 Today's drug dealers speak in code and use untraceable cellphones and brand their white bags of powder with special stamps to differentiate themselves, he said. The latest craze now is ''wet,'' a marijuana joint rolled in embalming fluid.
 Drug crimes and gun crimes are the two top priorities. Last summer Camden's law enforcement agencies, who are often at odds with each other, banded together to form a ''shoot team'' to investigate nonfatal shootings with the same rigor usually reserved for homicides. So far, they have increased the number of closed cases on aggravated assaults from 18 percent to 45 percent.
 ''The key is getting people to talk,'' said Sgt. Eddie Ramos, head of the shoot team. ''We'll show up at a gun call and everybody will be standing around saying nothing happened and we'll turn the corner and find a body.''
 Where the bodies fall is often memorialized. It has become almost an urban cliche. But in Camden the sidewalk memorials are truly inescapable, one after another testifying to the swift current carrying the city's young men away.
 During his patrol, Captain Leon stopped by a huge richly detailed mural of a 27-year-old man called ''B.'' He had soft eyes and a little mustache. His face was in the clouds.
 ''We're going to tear this down,'' Captain Leon said.
 Why?
 '''Cause it glorifies death.''
 But before he got back into the car, Captain Leon looked up once more at the mural.
 ''Beautiful though, ain't it?'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pedestrians, top, passing a blighted corner on Ferry Street in Camden, scene of a drug-related killing in October. Police officers in North Camden, left, arresting a suspect in an armed robbery. A memorial street mural honoring ''B,'' described by the police as a drug dealer
there are plans to tear it down. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
The police searching for shell casings outside a house where a mother and her three children were sleeping when gunfire broke out. A round penetrated the door of the house.
Some homeowners, like Jose Gonzalez, left, have enclosed their porches in burglar bars for protection. Nathenia Kirkland, right, comforting her 3-year-old daughter Yaya, who was wounded by a stray bullet in October and has undergone six operations.
The walls of abandoned houses, above, are often decorated with tributes to young men, some of them dealers, lost in the drug wars. Sister Helen Cole, left in photo, with Theressa Hokke-Sanchez, whose brother and sister were killed in Camden. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart/Map: ''Mired in Urban Despair''Camden has been rated the most dangerous city in America.GRADUATED FROM HIGH SCHOOL (2000)Camden: 51.0%United States average: 80.4PER CAPITA INCOME (2000)Camden: $ 9,815United States average: 21,587CHILDREN LIVING BELOW POVERTY (2000)Camden: 46.0%United States average: 16.1BIRTHS TO UNWED MOTHERS (2002)Camden: 80.0%United States average: 34.0HOMICIDES2002: 342003: 442004*: 53*Through Thursday(Sources by Census Bureau
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 Camden County prosecutor's office)(pg. B5)Map of New Jersey highlighting Camden. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); CRIME STATISTICS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); COCAINE (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ARSON (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); HEROIN (69%); BAILOUTS (67%); GANGS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles; Murders and Attempted Murders

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); CAMDEN COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: Jeffrey Gettleman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Camden (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



634 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: AFTER THE TSUNAMIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: In California, a Pained Wait for Word of Relatives

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Carolyn Marshall contributed reporting from San Francisco for this article, and Chris Dixon from Norwalk, Calif.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 28 

 BODY:
Farida Lestari Tio has tried for three days now to reach her brother and sister in Medan, her hometown near the northern end of Sumatra, the Indonesian island literally lifted up and moved by Sunday's earthquake.
 ''No one picks up the phone,'' Ms. Tio said, her eyes puddling with tears. ''It just rings and rings. I really don't know where they are or what happened.'' 
 Having lived through the Northridge earthquake here in 1994, Ms. Tio said she could only imagine the devastation wrought by the 9.0-magnitude quake that struck Indonesia and generated the deadly tsunamis that washed away coastlines across the Indian Ocean and killed tens of thousands.
 Ms. Tio, 44, who runs the popular Indo Cafe on the West Side of Los Angeles, said she had been unable to sleep, her mind replaying the pictures she has seen of bodies wedged in tree branches and of wailing parents bent over their dead children.
 ''I cannot bear to hear the people suffer,'' she said. ''How are they going to eat? How are they going to cook? Where are they going to sleep? I hear the screaming over and over again, and then I cry again.''
 The Los Angeles area is home to tens of thousands of immigrants from the countries hit hardest by the quake and the tsunamis -- India, Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Myanmar. Thousands more Indians and Sri Lankans live in the San Francisco Bay Area, many of them employed in the software and high-technology industries.
 The California residents from the affected areas have no central place to post messages or share their worry and grief, as the families of many of the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks did. So they communicate by telephone and e-mail, read Internet blogs and listen to radio programs in their native languages. At temples and government offices, the first relief efforts have begun, but the scope of the tragedy dwarfs the contributions that the California emigre population could possibly gather.
 Sumana Varua, a resident monk at the Wat Thai Temple in North Hollywood, said that the temple would sponsor a fund-raiser on Jan. 9 and was collecting money and new clothing to send to Thailand.
 Mr. Sumana said the temple would also conduct a special prayer service on New Year's Eve for the victims of the disaster.
 Government representatives from Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka joined with Los Angeles city officials and representatives of the American Red Cross of Greater Los Angeles on Tuesday to appeal for donations for the stricken. They are hoping to collect as much as $5 million for relief efforts.
 Hanggiro Setiabudi, the economic counselor at the Indonesian consulate in Los Angeles, said the consulate had received a few inquires from Indonesians living in this area about the fate of their relatives or home villages. But Mr. Setiabudi said that even the Indonesian government was having trouble learning of conditions in the remote northern part of Sumatra that was hardest hit by the quake and the walls of water.
 ''The situation is very grave,'' he said. ''These are poor fishermen villages, and the infrastructure is not very well developed. Telephone and electricity are cut off. Transport is cut off, buildings are destroyed. It is very hard for us to send aid to the affected area.''
 Sharmini de Alwis of San Jose was at a Christmas party Saturday night when she heard about the disaster that had just struck her native Sri Lanka. A relative called to say that her brother, his wife and their three boys, aged 7, 10 and 12, who were vacationing at a beach resort near Hambantota, Sri Lanka, were missing.
 Mrs. de Alwis later heard the near-miraculous tale of their survival. The family was eating breakfast at the hotel when someone screamed for all to run. They took off in different directions and were all washed out to sea. When the water receded, one son was clinging to the top of a 15-foot-tall tree, another was in the hospital with an injured leg, and the third escaped without a scratch and had saved the life of another child. The parents escaped with only minor injuries. All around them was death and destruction, but all five members of the family had survived, Mrs. de Alwis said.
 ''A lot of people we know are missing,'' she said. ''We are getting calls almost every minute. I cannot imagine the horror. My country, my people. The suffering. It's horrible, horrible. I don't know when they will recover.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Farida Lestari Tio and Hanggiro Setiabudi are monitoring the situation in Asia after the tsunamis. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); FAMILY (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); TERRORISM (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); SPONSORSHIP (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves; Earthquakes

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%) INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); ASIA (92%); MYANMAR (92%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Los Angeles (Calif); California; India; Indonesia; Thailand; Sri Lanka; Bangladesh; Malaysia; Myanmar; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



635 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Doing Business Is Too Costly in New York, Policy Group Says

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 28 

 BODY:
Even after a decade under a Republican administration that made tax cutting a priority, New York State still burdens its businesses with such high taxes and other costs that its ability to create and keep jobs is being hurt, a business lobbying group said on Tuesday.
 In updating its report on the price of doing business in the state, the group, the Public Policy Institute of the Business Council of New York State, said it had found that many costs -- including the average premium for health insurance, the average cost of a workers' compensation case, the retail price of electricity and natural gas and unemployment insurance taxes -- are higher in New York than in most other states.
 The report comes at a time when the state and its agencies -- most prominently, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Education Department -- are facing enormous gaps between their needs and state revenues. Some officials have said the state needs to re-examine its tax structure to find ways to increase revenue to deal with its $6 billion deficit, but, in a preview of the debates certain to dominate the forthcoming session, the Business Council made it clear on Tuesday that it wants taxes to go down. 
 Robert Ward, director of research for the business group, said that the Pataki administration had made some progress in reducing the tax burden, but that recent tax increases had trimmed the progress back.
 ''We have made some progress, but we still have a long way to go,'' Mr. Ward said. ''Unfortunately, in the last couple of years, looking at taxes, we have gone backwards. We have raised taxes much more than most other states, both at the state and local levels, and that is going to hurt us.''
 To help close an $11.5 billion budget gap in 2003, the state instituted a surcharge on taxable earnings of more than $100,000 for single people or more than $150,000 for married couples. That surcharge, which raised the state tax rate to 7.5 percent from 6.85 percent for that group, is set to expire at the end of next year, and Mr. Ward said he saw no reason for politicians to extend it. 
 The state also increased the sales tax on clothing items costing less than $110, an increase that is set to expire in the coming year, Mr. Ward said.
 A study last year by the Citizens Budget Commission found that New Yorkers pay more of their income in local taxes than residents of any other state. Mr. Ward said that Census Bureau figures from 2002 showed that New York also ranked high in the categories of property, sales, income and corporate taxes.
 At the same time, those who are employed in the state are generally earning less money than they could, Mr. Ward said, because the high taxes and business costs tend to divert money from payrolls. The result is that New York is a poor choice for businesses and workers, he said, with many urban areas in upstate New York losing economic vitality.
 Reaction to the report was mixed in the State Capitol on a day when lawmakers were on vacation before the new legislative session is set to begin next week with a speech by Gov. George E. Pataki.
 Frank J. Mauro, the executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization financed, in part, by money from unions, said one part of the business council's own figures show that New York actually has a lower cost of doing business than all of its neighbors except Pennsylvania. Mr. Ward said that fact was only one in a number of measures that the group used and did not detract from its overall premise.
 Edmund J. McMahon of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, said the report underlined the ''big policy failures'' of the triumvirate that has held power in Albany for the past decade: Mr. Pataki; Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican and the majority leader of the State Senate; and Sheldon Silver, a Democrat and speaker of the State Assembly.
 ''It highlights the disconnect between Albany and the real world,'' he said. ''That the state is in so much trouble, competitively, and none of the key players up here have any intention of dealing with it.''
 A spokesman for Mr. Bruno pointed out the Senate's efforts in creating economic development programs, which Mr. Ward praised but said were too limited. ''This report makes it clear that much more needs to be done to make New York State more competitive,'' said the spokesman, Mark Hansen.
 Todd Alhart, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said the administration would review the report, but argued that no one was fighting harder than the governor to cut taxes, create jobs and improve the state's business climate. ''Since Governor Pataki took office in 1995, our state has cut 19 different taxes 75 different times to save New York's people and businesses well over $100 billion,'' said Mr. Alhart. ''No state even comes close to matching New York's tax-cutting record.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); INCOME TAX (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (72%); CENSUS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); MARRIAGE (64%) Taxation; Health Insurance; Workers' Compensation Insurance ; Unemployment Insurance; Medicine and Health 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (83%) Business Council of New York State

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



636 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Jumps To Highest Level Since July

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Improving labor market conditions and cheaper energy prices led to a sharp increase in a widely watched indicator of consumer confidence in December.
 The Conference Board, a private research group, reported yesterday that its index of consumer confidence jumped to 102.3 in December from 92.6 in November, after four months of declines. 
It was the highest level for the indicator since July and well above the 94 that economists had been expecting. 
 The surge in the consumer confidence index suggested that Americans were feeling more optimistic about their economic prospects. Economists pointed to an improving labor market and cheaper energy prices as main factors for the bounce. 
 Anthony Chan, senior economist with J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management in Columbus, Ohio, said he was ''very impressed'' with the report, which he said indicated that ''labor markets are improving nicely, and may actually be a lot healthier than the current perception.'' 
 Indicators of consumer confidence are widely watched by economists because spending by individuals makes up about two-thirds of all economic activity in the United States. 
 Economists have been disappointed in the sluggish job growth in the economy in recent months, which has lagged behind other economic indicators like industrial activity. Earlier this month the government reported that only 112,000 jobs were created in November, the lowest amount since July and just half of what economists had forecast. 
 Despite the poor showing of job growth, the unemployment rate edged down by 0.1 percentage point, to 5.4 percent, in November. That rate is based on a separate survey of households. 
 The monthly report on consumer confidence is based on a survey of 5,000 households, and the preliminary figure for December reported yesterday was based on about 2,700 responses received by Dec. 20.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Consumer Confidence''Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100.Dec. -- 102.3Nov. -- 92.6Oct. -- 92.9Graph tracks attitudes towards the economy since July 2003. (Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (97%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (97%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



637 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy Airport Is Overtaken As a Global Freight Gateway

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
For the first time, Kennedy International Airport has been surpassed as the top international freight gateway in the United States, according to new federal statistics that show that the Port of Los Angeles is now the nation's largest point of access for the movement of goods across countries.
 Last year, $122 billion in international shipments moved through the California port, compared with $112 billion through the New York airport, according to data released yesterday by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, a unit of the federal Department of Transportation.
 Kennedy had held the No. 1 position since 1999, when the bureau began compiling information reported by the freight gateways. 
 Third on the list is the land component of the Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority, where $102 billion in international shipments moved across the border with Canada last year. The seaport of New York and New Jersey remained at No. 4, with $101 billion in shipments moving through the harbor. 
 The remainder of the top 10 gateways are the seaport of Long Beach, Calif.; the border crossing at Laredo, Tex.; Los Angeles International Airport; the border crossing at Port Huron, Mich.; the border crossing at Buffalo and Niagara Falls, N.Y.; and O'Hare and Midway International Airports in Chicago. 
 At 8 of the 10 hubs, the value of imports exceeded the value of exports, but the Los Angeles port is an especially stark reflection of the nation's trade deficit. Last year, $105 billion in imports and $17 billion worth of exports passed through it, compared with $65 billion of imports and $47 billion of exports at Kennedy. 
 A spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which has managed Kennedy since 1947, said it was not fair to examine the airport apart from the harbor.
 ''The air cargo division and the Port of New York and New Jersey act as one entity, responsible for the import and export of freight to and from the United States,'' said the spokesman, Tony Ciavolella. ''It's an apples-and-oranges comparison to look at Kennedy Airport as a separate entity from the total Port Authority system.'' 
 Mr. Ciavolella also noted that the total value of foreign trade that passed through the airport and the harbor, $213 billion, far exceeded that of any other single metropolitan region in the nation. 
 A spokesman for the statistical agency defended its comparison across the three modes of transport.
 ''We have become more intermodal,'' the spokesman, Roger P. Lotz, said. ''There are shipments that don't just go simply by ship, by truck or by plane. Look at a FedEx shipment. It will go by a truck to a plane to a truck.''
 The bureau plans to release a report next month on the top freight gateways in the United States, Mr. Lotz said. Last year, $2 trillion in exports and imports moved through more than 400 freight gateways across the country. Forty-three percent, or $851 billion, was handled by the top 10 gateways.
 An urban historian said it was not surprising that a western port would eclipse Kennedy as the single greatest point of access for international trade, given the growth of the Pacific Rim economies. ''New York's primacy as an international entrepot and port were in large part due to the importance of the Atlantic world and ocean,'' said Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor of history and the social sciences at Columbia University. 
 Professor Jackson added that he did not believe the change in ranking was an important gauge of the relative importance of the two cities. ''There are many ways to measure urban significance, and the physical movement of goods is not as important now as it was 100 or 200 years ago,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (96%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); TRUCKING (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%) Ships and Shipping ; International Trade and World Market; Kennedy International Airport (NYC); Airports; Airlines and Airplanes; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Los Angeles (Calif); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



638 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Director of Analysis at C.I.A. Is the Latest to Be Forced Out

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28 

 BODY:
The head of the Central Intelligence Agency's analytical branch is being forced to step down, former intelligence officials say, opening a major new chapter in a shakeup under Porter J. Goss, the agency's chief.
 The official, Jami Miscik, the agency's deputy director for intelligence, told her subordinates on Tuesday afternoon of her plan to step down on Feb. 4. A former intelligence official said that Ms. Miscik was told before Christmas that Mr. Goss wanted to make a change and that ''the decision to depart was not hers.'' 
 Ms. Miscik has headed analysis at the agency since 2002, a period in which prewar assessments of Iraq and its illicit weapons, which drew heavily on C.I.A. analysis, proved to be mistaken. Even before taking charge of the C.I.A., Mr. Goss, who was a congressman, and his closest associates had been openly critical of the directorate of intelligence, saying it suffered from poor leadership and was devoting too much effort to monitoring day-to-day developments rather than broad trends.
 Ms. Miscik's departure is the latest in a series of high-level ousters that have prompted unease within the C.I.A. since Mr. Goss took over as director of central intelligence in September. Of the officials who worked as top deputies to Mr. Goss's predecessor, George J. Tenet, at least a half-dozen have been fired or have retired abruptly, including the agency's No.2 and No.3 officials. Much of the top tier of the agency's clandestine service is also gone.
 The departure of Ms. Miscik will be the first major change within the directorate of intelligence, which is responsible for making important judgments about events around the world and whose products include the President's Daily Brief, the highly classified document prepared for the president each morning.
 The C.I.A. declined to comment on the move, and Ms. Miscik did not reply to written questions provided to her on Monday evening.
 But in her message to subordinates, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, Ms. Miscik described her departure as part of a ''natural evolution,'' saying every intelligence chief ''has a desire to have his own team in place to implement his vision and to offer him counsel.''
 Current and former intelligence officials said the move seemed to signal that Mr. Goss's overhaul, which has focused on human spying operations, would be widened to include the analytical unit. 
 The former intelligence officials who agreed to discuss Ms. Miscik's plans did so on condition of anonymity. They defended her performance, saying that in 2003 she was quick to acknowledge the shortcomings of the agency's work on Iraq and adopted new safeguards intended to prevent future breakdowns.
 The changes at the C.I.A. come as the agency is bracing for a wider reorganization endorsed by Congress and the White House that will strip it of its leading status among the country's intelligence agencies. Under legislation signed into law this month, the chief of the C.I.A. will no longer oversee all 15 of the country's intelligence organizations, which include operations in the Pentagon, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National Security Agency.
 Instead, that power will be transferred to the new post of director of national intelligence, for which the White House has yet to choose a nominee. Administration officials say aides to President Bush are trying to narrow their search, with a decision expected in early January. It is not clear whether Mr. Goss, whose early personnel moves have been sharply criticized inside and outside the C.I.A., will be a candidate for the new job.
 Under the new law, the post of director of central intelligence will no longer exist. Among the questions not yet resolved, according to Congressional officials, is whether Senate confirmation would be required for the C.I.A. director.
 Ms. Miscik, an economist who rose through the ranks of the intelligence directorate over a 21-year career at the agency, suggested to associates as early as November that she did not expect to stay at the agency under Mr. Goss. But a former intelligence official who worked closely with her said she would have been happy to stay, despite the intensity of the criticism voiced by Mr. Goss and his top aides.
 Mr. Goss has not spoken publicly since he took over at the C.I.A., and the agency has announced only a few of his personnel moves. In November, he told the agency's employees to expect more changes in the days and weeks ahead. Several top jobs remain vacant, including the agency's No.2 post, deputy director of central intelligence, from which John E. McLaughlin resigned early this month.
 There was no indication on Tuesday of whom Mr. Goss might name to succeed Ms. Miscik. One of her top deputies, Scott White, left the C.I.A. in November for another government job, leaving Ben Bonk, an associate deputy director of intelligence, as Ms. Miscik's most senior subordinate.
 Among those who have criticized the C.I.A.'s analytical unit for its mistakes on Iraq and that country's supposed unconventional weapons, the Senate Intelligence Committee issued a scathing report last summer, and a C.I.A. panel, the Iraq W.M.D. Review Group, completed a 10-month internal review last May.
 That review, never made public but described in an internal document issued in August, concluded that the assertion that Iraq possessed illicit weapons had been reasonable based on the information available at the time. But the August document also showed that the review found a pattern of ''imprecise language,'' ''insufficient follow-up'' and ''sourcing problems,'' including ''numerous cases'' in which analysts ''misrepresented the meaning'' of intelligence reports about Iraq's weapons.
 The August report described the analytical branch as having ''never been more junior or more inexperienced'' and said that some of the ''systemic problems'' uncovered might reflect more widespread ''tradecraft weaknesses.'' But in an interview in September Ms. Miscik said she had acknowledged many of the problems in a speech in February 2004 and had put in place new measures requiring that intelligence judgments be subjected to more rigorous review. 
 The sharpest criticisms of the analytical unit that Mr. Goss and his associates are known to have endorsed were spelled out last spring in a report by the House Intelligence Committee. Mr. Goss, then a Republican congressman from Florida, was the chairman of the panel; the report's principal authors were Republican staff members who are now working as senior advisers to Mr. Goss at the C.I.A.
 The report did not mention Ms. Miscik by name, but it criticized the intelligence directorate's leadership and senior managers, among other things, for devoting too much time and attention to providing updates for policy makers, thus ''squandering scarce analytic resources that could be put to better use.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (93%); ESPIONAGE (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%) Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (95%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: Douglas Jehl; Jami Miscik; Porter J (Dir) Goss

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



639 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM THE AMERICAS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Learn English, Says Chile, Thinking Upwardly Global

BYLINE: By Larry Rohter

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile 

 BODY:
In many parts of Latin America, resistance to cultural domination by the United States is often synonymous with a reluctance to learn or speak English. But here, where Salvador Allende was once a beacon for the left, the current Socialist-led national government has begun a sweeping effort to make this country bilingual.
 Chile already has the most open, market-friendly economy in Latin America, and the language plan is seen as advancing that process. The government has negotiated free trade agreements with the United States, Canada, the European Union and South Korea in recent years, is in talks with New Zealand and Singapore, and this fall was host to the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation conference, with President Bush among the leaders of 21 nations in attendance. 
 ''We have some of the most advanced commercial accords in the world, but that is not enough,'' Sergio Bitar, the minister of education, said in an interview here. ''We know our lives are linked more than ever to an international presence, and if you can't speak English, you can't sell and you can't learn.''
 The initial phase of the 18-month-old program, officially known as ''English Opens Doors,'' calls for all Chilean elementary and high school students to be able to pass a standardized listening and reading test a decade from now. But the more ambitious long-term goal is to make all 15 million of Chile's people fluent in English within a generation.
 ''It took the Swedes 40 years'' to get to that point, said Mr. Bitar, adding that he sees the Nordic countries and Southeast Asian nations like Malaysia as models for Chile. ''It's going to take us decades too, but we're on the right track.''
 In any other Latin American country, a campaign to make English universal and obligatory would inevitably arouse protests about the destruction of the nation's sovereignty and cultural identity. In Brazil, for example, legislation has been proposed to prohibit the use of English in the names of stores or in advertisements and to create new Portuguese-language verbs to designate basic computer operations.
 Here, in contrast, what little criticism there is of the plan has focused on the argument that schools should teach children to speak Spanish better before they try to learn English. Only a very small number of groups have opposed the program on ideological grounds.
 ''We're quite worried about this because it takes an economic hegemony and translates it into a cultural hegemony,'' said Sara Larrain, a leader of the Chilean Social Forum, a coalition opposed to corporate-led globalization. ''Chile's insertion ought to be into the world at large, not into the U.S. empire. These are not Roman times, when Latin was the universal language.''
 But the Chilean government has presented the English initiative as an eminently democratic measure, in Mr. Bitar's words ''an instrument of equality for all children'' in Chile. That argument seems to resonate deeply with working-class families eager to see their children prosper in an increasingly competitive and demanding job market.
 ''This kind of program didn't exist when I was in school, which meant that only the rich kids in the private schools got to study English,'' said Fabiola Coli, whose daughter is now learning English at the Benjamin Vicuna MacKenna Elementary School here. ''If you couldn't afford to pay, and I couldn't, you were left out. This is better because everyone can benefit.''
 At the school, kindergarten pupils are learning to count to 20 in both English and Spanish , and can already address a visitor in English: ''My name is Araceli. What is yours?'' The principal's office has a sign in English announcing itself as such, and various items in the classrooms are labeled in English ''window,'' ''emergency exit'' and other things.
 At the college level, some universities are already requiring that all their students study English. Others are also beginning to teach courses in some majors, like foreign trade and hotel management, in English, and have plans to extend the use of English to math and science courses.
 ''More than a choice, it's a necessity,'' said Patricia Cabello, rector of the University of the Americas, one of Chile's largest. ''Our mission is to train professionals for an internationalized world, and this is the only way for this country to develop the way it wants.''
 Though the main focus of the program is young students, the government has also sought to reach adults by encouraging businesses to offer English courses to employees. As part of the program, tax credits are to be offered to companies, and Rodrigo Fabrega, director of the effort, talks of ''flooding the country with English-Spanish dictionaries and English-language textbooks.''
 President Ricardo Lagos, himself a former minister of education, has done his part to set an example. Unlike the presidents of some neighboring countries, who insist on sticking to Spanish or Portuguese, he makes a point of speaking at least some English in public whenever he meets with Mr. Bush or Tony Blair or the foreign press.
 ''We spoke about the English language and how important it is to be able to foster through our ministries the learning of English,'' Mr. Lagos said at a news conference last month after a meeting with Mr. Bush. ''As a country, we want to be a bridge and a platform for flows of international trade and in the Asia-Pacific region.''
 Government officials say that their biggest problem now is a lack of qualified teachers. But they hope to recruit volunteers from English-speaking countries to come here, and are also sending Chilean teachers to places like California and Delaware.
 ''The first thing we have to do is train an army of English teachers,'' said Mr. Fabrega. The quality of the English that will eventually be spoken here may not rival Shakespeare's, he conceded, but he said that did not matter. ''We'll speak English Chilean-style, because the important thing is to understand English and to be able to use it as a tool in our favor.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A market-friendly government wants Chileans to master the English language. Oh, those pesky irregular verbs!
 Francisca, 8, answers a teacher's question during English class in a Santiago school. (Photographs by Tomas Munita for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTILINGUALISM (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (50%) English Language; Education and Schools; Bilingual Education

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (92%) CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (57%) Chile; Chile

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



640 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Down and Almost Out in Mongolia; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: End of Garment Quota System Signals Tough Times Ahead

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: ULAN BATOR, Mongolia 

 BODY:
On Genghis Khan Avenue, Mongolia's garment factory workers are begging for mercy.
 ''I am praying this company won't close,'' said Dejidmaa Sosorijav, 39, pausing from trimming white threads from a man's jacket destined for the United States. Employed for the last year in an American-owned factory, Mrs. Sosorijav, a mother of three, added: ''It is very hard for a person my age to find a job. Mongolian-owned companies say '35 or younger.'''
 The death knell for Mongolia's garment industry will ring on Jan. 1, when a decades-old global quota system is to end, freeing American and European fashion companies and retailers, in the long run, to buy as many clothes as they want from the lowest-cost producers, notably China, India and Pakistan. 
 This effort at market liberalizing is expected to save American consumers as much as $6 billion a year, though higher tariffs imposed temporarily by China, as well as possible additional limits established in the United States and Europe, are expected to shave off some of those savings. 
 But the new wave is still expected to upend the world garment industry, shuffling millions of jobs in dozens of the world's poorest countries. Buyers are expected over time to shift their purchases to the largest and cheapest producers.
 With the clock ticking down, Mongolia is an example of a small, isolated country where the new competitive order is expected to be particularly harsh. Orders are drying up for the factories that sprang up here over the last five years in the industrial suburb of Khan-Uul, on the main thoroughfare to the airport. At risk are 40,000 jobs.
 ''Because of the end of quotas, almost all our buyers have gone,'' said L. Sarangerel, president of Mongolia Samik, a manufacturer here. ''They have gone to China.''
 Speaking by telephone from New York, where she had gone to drum up work for her 400 employees here, she added: ''Usually I have orders for the next six months. Now I only have orders through February.''
 While Mongolia's bind may seem relatively obscure, the social and economic impact in thinly populated Mongolia could be severe. 
 With textiles and garments ranking as Mongolia's No.2 export item after minerals, the industry is believed to account for about 10 percent of steady jobs in Ulan Bator, the capital and largest city.
 On the assembly floor of the Magic Suit Company, Khorolgarav Chimedtseren looked up from sewing pockets on a man's jacket destined for the United States, and said she and her husband moved here after a drought killed their herds of 20 cows and 50 sheep and goats.
 ''I am an old woman,'' Mrs. Chimedtseren, 47, said. ''So I will probably have to look for a cleaning job.''
 Down a few side alleys, at the Lotus Children's Center orphanage, Ishbel Smith, the Scottish manager, said that many of her charges had parents, but that they could not afford to raise their children at home.
 ''We have high unemployment as it is,'' she said in her office, away from the classroom hubbub. ''A lot of people in this area work in the clothing factories. If the factories close, there will be more abandoned children.''
 With jobs in short supply here, Magic's general manager, who goes by only one name, Sarangerel, said bluntly: ''I get parents coming to me, saying, 'Hire my daughter so she won't end up on the streets as a prostitute; hire my son, so he won't end up an alcoholic.'''
 But with 98 percent of Mongolia's garment production going to the United States, the industry is an essentially artificial creation of the global quota system that is to end at the turn of the year. Since the 1970's, the United States has used quotas to limit clothing imports from China. 
 To get around this, manufacturers in the late 1990's started shipping clothing pieces from China for assembly in Mongolia, a nation that did not face quotas on its garment exports to the United States. Most production here is of cotton apparel, and all the cotton is imported, largely from China.
 ''The reason there is production in Mongolia is because of the quota system,'' Brenda A. Jacobs, a trade lawyer who represents American clothing importers, said by telephone from Washington. Referring to this landlocked country linked to China by an aging rail line, she said: ''It doesn't make sense moving goods back and forth. You add time and cost, and chances are you are not adding quality.''
 Chinese companies account for about half of the 66 clothing manufacturers in Mongolia. Koreans, Taiwanese and Singaporeans account for most of the rest.
 ''When the quotas are gone, I cannot see these people sticking around,'' said Ronald Zeidel, a Canadian, who is executive director of Magic Suit. He calculated that it cost $1.80 more to produce a suit in Mongolia than in China, where Magic Suit's parent company, the Trybus Group, also owns factories.
 The biggest changes will not necessarily happen right away. Bruce Harris, an adviser on textiles to an American-financed project aimed at reshaping the national economy to help absorb the blow, predicted: ''I don't think we are going to have a mass exodus on Jan. 1. We are going to lose seven, eight, nine companies, right away. Then there will be the wait and see.''
 Although the United States and Europe, as part of an overall trade liberalizing agreement under the World Trade Organization, agreed in 1994 to phase out textile quotas over a decade, many small nations resisted making changes to increase their competitiveness, gambling that at the last minute quotas would be extended.
 While various measures are expected to be imposed by Washington and Brussels to slow the influx of imports from China, nearly all the formal restraints are destined for the ash heap.
 ''This is a very unexpected blow for us,'' Tsakhia Elbegdorj, Mongolia's prime minister, said here in an interview. Mr. Elbegdorj, who took office in late August by replacing a government run by the former Communist Party, said that he was working with his new minister of industry to devise ways of lowering production costs for the garment manufacturers.
 But manufacturers say that it may be too late to reverse the expected exodus. 
 ''We have been talking to the Mongolians pretty seriously for two years, and we have received a deaf ear,'' said Gary Trybus, president of the Trybus Group, a family-held company based in Dallas. ''In Mongolia, the wages are higher, the overhead is higher, the electricity is higher, the heating is higher, rents are higher and transportation is a big problem.''
 Manufacturers call for lowering industrial electricity rates, which are three times residential rates. 
 They also want an end to a Chinese state rail company monopoly over the lone rail link to the outside world, which runs to the nearest Chinese port, Tianjin, 900 miles southeast. Factory owners also call for changing Mongolia's tax code to allow companies to take tax deductions on expenditures for employee lunches and bus transportation.
 But even without the lifting of quotas, Chinese competition has forced down unit sales prices, from $4 in 2000 to $2.70 today. Although the volume of clothes exported has risen over the last five years, the dollars earned are stagnating around $200 million this year, slightly above the 2000 level. 
 While Mongolia imports all of its cotton pieces for sewing here, many economists say that Mongolia's garment industry should shift to where the country has a natural advantage. With 10 million sheep -- four times the human population of 2.5 million -- Mongolia is a major producer of wool, cashmere and camel hair. But most of these specialty fibers leave Mongolia unprocessed for China, where companies are willing to pay more than in Mongolia. 
 Chinese factories can pay more for wool and cashmere, in part, because their wool processing plants are more modern and efficient. Next year, Mongolians hope to improve efficiency by privatizing a government-run holdover from the Communist days, Gobi Cashmere, a behemoth with overcapacity and underutilization that has scared away foreign investors from Italy and other high-fashion nations.
 For the moment, Mongolian officials, like those in dozens of other poor countries, are still gambling that their industry will be saved by a few last-minute moves in Washington, notably the imposition of textile industry safeguards, a step that would set gradually increasing limits on imports from China for a variety of goods. But many Mongolians are cowed when they hear that investors in Chinese manufacturers have poured $21 billion into extensive upgrades for the textile and garment industry.
 ''We ourselves must do more to make sure that these factories stay,'' Tsend Munh-Orgil, Mongolia's foreign minister, said.
 Still, he added a note of despair that could have been voiced in a dozen or more particularly vulnerable small nations that long benefited from the garment quotas: ''But who can compete with China?''

Made Elsewhere
 Articles in this series are periodically examining changes in the global clothing business. Previous articles are available at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tens of thousands of Mongolian jobs are expected to be lost after Jan. 1. The main beneficiary is likely to be China, where labor and production costs are lower. (Photo by Jae-hyun Seok for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
''When the quotas are gone, I cannot see these people sticking around,'' said Ronald Zeidel, the executive director of Magic Suit. He calculated that it cost $1.80 more to produce a suit in Mongolia than in China. (Photo by Jae-hyun Seok for The New York Times)
 Dejidmaa Sosorijav says she is praying her job does not end. (Photo by Jae-hyun Seok for The New York Times)(pg. C2)Map of Mongolia shows the location of Ulan Bator: Garments account for about 10 percent of Ulan Bator jobs. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (91%); GARMENT WORKERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (84%); TEXTILES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); TRENDS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); RETAILERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); RANKINGS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Apparel; International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Apparel; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: MONGOLIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%) Mongolia; Europe; China; India; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



641 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Office Pool, 2005

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In this, the granddaddy of all year-end fearless forecasts, you are invited to weigh intriguing possibilities in a dozen fields. For each, pick one, all or none, and don't play it safe; one correct wild guess gives you bragging rights forever. 
 1.The Oscar for Best Picture goes to: (a)Robert Zemeckis's ''The Polar Express''; (b)Michael Mann's ''Collateral''; (c)David Mamet's ''Spartan''; (d)Clint Eastwood's ''Million Dollar Baby'' (to win this choice, a trifecta is needed with Best Director and Best Actor as well); (e)Michael Moore's ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' (from Academy members seeking vengeance). 
 2.Political scandals will include: (a)Senator Pat Roberts's cover-up of Senate Intelligence ineptitude in its suppressed U.S.S. Cole report; (b)association of a Kofi Annan family member with the selection of a U.N. oil-for-food official; (c)F.B.I. Director Robert Mueller's two-year campaign of entrapment and harassment of the leading U.S. pro-Israel group; (d)pan-Arabist leaders' conspiracy of silence in the genocide of African Muslims in Darfur.
 3.The national intelligence director will be: (a)the Pentagon's Paul Wolfowitz; (b)C.I.A. chief Porter Goss; (c)retired Gen. Tommy Franks; (d)9/11 interrogator Richard (''Is it not a fact'') Ben-Veniste; (e)ex-Democratic Senator Chuck Robb.
 4.Iraqis will see the: (a)election of Ayad Allawi and progress on the bumpy road to democracy; (b)comeback of Ahmad Chalabi dreaded by the C.I.A.; (c)insurgency's sudden collapse with the capture of bin Laden and killing of Zarqawi; (d)beginning of the U.S. troop drawdown; (e)judgment of not guilty in Saddam's trial; (f)bloody Shiite-Sunni civil war and Kurds' independence.
 5.The sleeper nonfiction best seller will be: (a)''The Tender Bar'' by J.P. Moehringer; (b)''Becoming Justice Blackmun'' by Linda Greenhouse; (c)Robert O'Harrow Jr.'s ''No Place to Hide''; (d)Arch Puddington's biography of ''Lane Kirkland, Champion of American Labor''; (e)''The Ethical Brain'' by Michael Gazzaniga; (f)''Speaking Freely'' by the press defender Floyd Abrams; (g)''Smashed'' by Koren Zailckas.
 6.The novel surprise will be: (a)Nick Arvin's ''Articles of War''; (b)Elizabeth Gaffney's ''Metropolis''; (c)Bret Easton Ellis's ''Lunar Park''; (d)Julie Baumgold's ''The Diamond'' (dictated by Napoleon).
 7.Senate Democrats will: (a)not dig in their heels over elevating Antonin Scalia to chief justice if Bush appoints a centrist as a new associate justice; (b)by filibustering all strongly conservative nominees, bring on the G.O.P. ''nuclear option'' of changing Senate rules to require only a simple majority for confirmation; (c)drop the abortion litmus test but otherwise fight all right-wing judges.
 8.The Scalia court will decide: (a)to strike down federal sentencing guidelines, producing tumult in criminal justice; (b)to uphold governmental Ten Commandments displays as harmless ''ceremonial deism''; (c)to strike a blow for the free flow of booze by ruling that states cannot prevent the shipment of wines produced in one state to consumers in another state.
 9.Republicans in Congress will remind President Bush of his lame-duckiness by defeating his proposal for: (a)personal retirement accounts within Social Security; (b)registering illegal immigrants; (c)making his tax cuts permanent; (d)a ticket to Mars.
 10.Democrats will reverse their electoral fortunes by: (a)moving right by insisting on budget reduction; (b)moving left by advocating more social spending and higher taxes; (c)staying centered globally as muscular alliance-builders; (d)moving upward by getting religion; (e)moving down South and out Midwest for national candidates.
 11.The economy will: (a)boom without inflation as oil sinks to $30/bbl , the Iraq war winds down and the Sharon-Abbas peace deal takes shape; (b)tank as Asia stops lending us money; (c)march up to a 13,000 Dow, as somewhat prematurely predicted in this office pool last year. 
 12.The medical breakthrough will be: (a)a modified vaccine to treat Alzheimer's; (b)a drug to aid recovery from brain injuries like strokes; (c)a stem-cell (not necessarily embryonic) treatment for heart diseases; (d)nanotechnologies to detect cancer cells early; (e)sequencing the human influenza genome to help prevent epidemics of new strains of Asian flu; (f)a drug that both slows prostate cancer and treats male baldness (a real challenge to ad copywriters).
 My picks: 1 (d); 2 (all); 3 (c); 4 (a); 5 (b); 6 (d); 7 (a); 8 (all); 9 (b); 10 (d); 11 (a); 12 (all). Gotta play to have the right to hoot. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); POLITICS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); GENOCIDE (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); RELIGION (64%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (63%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); BESTSELLERS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%) Two Thousand Five (Year)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (54%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (53%); PAT ROBERTS (52%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SUDAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



642 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: A Bond the Holocaust and Time Couldn't Break

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The two sisters were inseparable.
 They endured Bergen-Belsen together, and when the British liberated the concentration camp, it was Irma, herself frail, who pushed Hilde's shriveled frame in a wheelbarrow toward a neighboring village so they could recuperate together.
 They came to the United States together and lived with their second husbands in adjoining apartment buildings in Washington Heights. (Their first husbands had died of typhus in the camp.) As if that were not close enough, they moved in 1967 into a single suburban ranch house in Englewood, N.J., which they continued to share after their husbands died. 
 Until yesterday. That was when Irma Haas, 97, and Hilde Meyer, 94, set off from Kennedy International Airport for Israel to spend the remainder of their lives in the same residence for the elderly in Jerusalem.
 After a driver mistakenly took them to Newark Liberty International Airport, they arrived in cliffhanger fashion barely 40 minutes before takeoff. With canes across their laps, they sat next to each other in wheelchairs as El Al security hurriedly examined their passports and put them through the requisite grilling about who had packed their bags and whether they had received any gifts. Much of the time, Hilde, looking frightened, clutched Irma's left arm with her right hand.
 ''She cannot let go of me,'' Irma said, mentioning their wartime terror. ''She is afraid she would be brought somewhere and I would not come.''
 While many Diaspora Jews dream of living out their lives in the Jewish homeland, those who actually make the journey usually do so when they have plenty of years left. But the sisters make no apologies for waiting so long.
 ''We were very happy here,'' Irma explained as they packed on Monday for their last great adventure. But she said they could no longer do the things that made them love Englewood, like walking a half-mile on Saturdays to their Orthodox synagogue. And so the question became where they could live out their lives most practically.
 It didn't hurt that their Jerusalem residence, Beit Barth, is near their cousins and that the building has a synagogue. But most important, they had often visited Israel on tandem vacations and had always yearned to settle down there -- together, of course.
 ''That is where I feel at home,'' Irma said. ''It's the only country in the world that gives Jews a home without any restriction. After the Holocaust, this is how I always viewed it.''
 The sisters were part of an El Al flight of more than 200 North American Jews who were being resettled in Israel by a private organization, Nefesh B'Nefesh (Soul to Soul), and the Jewish Agency for Israel, a quasi-governmental group. The agency is trying to increase Israel's population; four years of violence has dried up the sources of immigrants Israel needs for economic growth. In two and a half years, Nefesh B'Nefesh has settled 3,000 Jews, helping them find jobs and schools and slicing away bureaucratic tape in arranging driver's licenses, bank accounts and other details. The Jewish Agency pays for the flights and offers tax cuts on purchases of houses and cars.
 Both sisters are slight of build and wear gray shaytls, or wigs. Irma is hardier, Hilde more easily rattled. They were born in Londorf, a town in Hessen, a German state where their family's roots stretch back hundreds of years. 
 Irma promised her mother that she would always take care of the more delicate Hilde. They did live apart for a time. During the Nazi era, Hilde married a Dutchman and lived in Amsterdam. Irma, a schoolteacher, visited her there, and when she returned home, the Germans gave her 10 days to leave the country. 
 She had to say goodbye to her fiance, a dentist, but she was able to rejoin her sister in Amsterdam. The sisters lived in the same neighborhood as Anne Frank, whom they sometimes saw lugging her school bag and who died in Bergen-Belsen.
 Irma learned that her fiance had boarded the St. Louis, an ocean liner that was one of the few ways out of Germany, but that it was turned back first by Cuba, then by the United States. The bittersweet outcome was that he was able to rejoin Irma in the Netherlands, one of the European countries that absorbed the stranded passengers, and marry her. But after the Nazis invaded the Netherlands in May 1940, the two couples were sent to Bergen-Belsen. 
 After the war, Irma wanted to move to what was then Palestine, but Hilde craved security, and they settled in the United States. 
 There were other affinities. Hilda remarried in 1949, to a doctor named Nathan Meyer, and Irma remarried in 1956, to a picture-frame merchant whose name was also Nathan -- Nathan Haas. Both lost their prime childbearing years to the war. Both took classes together in Judaism. While Irma taught kindergarten, Hilde was more of a homemaker. Irma handled their finances, but both ate the challahs Hilde baked.
 Judy Marcus, their second cousin, who accompanied them on the flight, said the two sisters seemed to have eluded the arrows of sibling rivalry. ''They were never jealous of each other,'' she said. ''They were always happy whatever the other one had.''
 About two years ago, Hilde was briefly hospitalized and pleaded that Irma remain at her side. Mrs. Marcus said she told a hospital official: ''They are Holocaust survivors. They can't be separated.''
 ''They made a special dispensation to allow Irma to sleep in Hilde's room,'' Mrs. Marcus recalled. ''But Irma would not have left anyway, even if it meant sitting up in a chair all night.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Irma Haas, 97, left, and her sister, Hilde Meyer, 94, arrived at Kennedy Airport yesterday for a flight to Israel. The sisters, who shared a house in New Jersey, will settle together in a residence for the elderly in Jerusalem. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); AIRPORTS (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%) Nazi Policies Toward Jews and Minorities; Bergen-Belsen (Concentration Camp)

ORGANIZATION: Nefesh B'Nefesh (Orgn)

PERSON: Joseph Berger; Hilde Meyer; Irma Haas

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Englewood (NJ); Israel

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



643 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Rising Consumer Confidence Spurs Rally in Markets

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose after a measure of consumer confidence climbed to the highest since July, bolstering retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and reviving a rally that has lifted benchmark indexes to three-year highs.
 Shares of Amazon.com gained for a second day after Bear Stearns increased its fourth-quarter sales estimate for the Internet retailer.
 The market is ''ending the year on a significant uptrend and this bodes well for the new year,'' said Bob O'Brien, head of trading at Evergreen Investment Management, which oversees $247 billion in Boston. Consumer confidence ''was a blowout number. It could start the new year on a very good foot.'' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 8.62 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,213.54, a level not seen since August 2001. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 78.41 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,854.54, while the Nasdaq composite index added 22.97 points, or 1.1 percent, to 2,177.19. Both closed at their highest since June 2001.
 Benchmark indexes are poised for their best quarter this year. The S.&P. 500 has jumped 8.9 percent in the period, the Dow average is up 7.7 percent, and the Nasdaq has surged 15 percent.
 The Conference Board's consumer confidence index had a reading of 102.3 in December, exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Expectations for the economy over the next six months also climbed to the highest level since July.
 Retailers gained in response. Wal-Mart rose 44 cents, to $53.23. The company, along with Target, said growth in December at stores open for at least a year met forecasts. Target added 55 cents, to $51.86 a share.
 Shares of Amazon.com climbed $2.38, to $44.63. Robert Peck, a Bear Stearns analyst, raised his revenue estimate to $2.54 billion, the high end of the company's forecast, citing Internet traffic data that indicates Amazon.com gained market share this year. He upgraded the stock to outperform from peer perform.
 Amazon.com's shares are up 15 percent this week after it said holiday sales had set a record on strong demand for electronics and books. 
 An S.&P. 500 index of drug companies climbed 1.1 percent, contributing the most to the benchmark's advance among its 24 industry groups. Pfizer increased 44 cents, to $26.94. Shares of the drug maker have gained for five consecutive days since concern that its Celebrex and Bextra medicines increased the risk of heart ailments sent the stock to a seven-year low.
 Pfizer shares have ''been hit too much,'' said Ned Riley, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors, which oversees $1.1 trillion in Boston. ''They still have their powerhouse drugs on the market, and I think they're going to fight tooth and nail to maintain it. Companies like Pfizer are really good buys today.''
 Merck, which withdrew its Vioxx painkiller for similar reasons, advanced 25 cents, to $32.20 a share. Biogen Idec rose $2.31, or 3.5 percent, to $67.86 a share.
 ImmunoGen climbed 82 cents, to $7.93 a share. The biotechnology company said Johnson & Johnson's Centocor unit will buy rights to a tumor technology as part of an agreement valued at as much as $43.5 million. ImmunoGen will get $1 million up front and additional research fees of as much as $42.5 million.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 1/32, to a price of 9921/32. The note's yield was unchanged at 4.29 percent.
 Results of yesterday's auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.856
High Rate: 1.840
Coupon Yield: 1.868
Low Rate: 1.800
Median Rate: 1.825
Total applied for: $28,682,535
Accepted: $13,019,415
Noncompetitive: $68,226

The four-week bills mature Jan. 27, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks Treasury securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (83%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); PUBLIC DEBT (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); PFIZER INC (51%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (75%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); WFC (NYSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



644 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Recovery on Track but Moving Slowly

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 28 

 BODY:
Japan's unemployment rate fell to a six-year low in November and industrial production picked up, offering evidence that the nation's recovery is continuing, although at a significantly slower pace than earlier in the year.
 The jobless rate fell to 4.5 percent in November, the lowest level since January 1999 and below the 4.7 percent rate in October. At the same time, industrial production rose from October to November at a seasonally adjusted rate of 1.5 percent, led by expanded output of electronic equipment, steel and manufacturing machinery for semiconductors. 
 The positive figures were welcome after a series of disappointing data, including recent growth figures based on a new calculation method that showed Japan skidding toward recession in the second half of this year. 
 The yen rose against the dollar and the benchmark Nikkei 225-stock average gained 0.54 percent, to close at 11,424.13, after the upbeat economic news.
 But neither of these reports, or any of a string of other figures released on Tuesday, presented an entirely positive picture of the economy. 
 Although the unemployment rate declined, the reason for the drop was fewer people looking for work rather than an increase in the number of jobs. Over all, the economy shed 150,000 jobs in November while some 450,000 people dropped out of the labor market.
 The increase in industrial production was the first in three months but the pace was a bit slower than expected. Economists had predicted that production would increase by 1.9 percent.
 ''It's not all good news but it's not all bad news either,'' said Ryo Hino, an economist at J.P. Morgan Securities in Tokyo. ''It still looks as though the economy is going to end the year on a soft note.''
 The Japanese economy grew at an annual rate of just 0.2 percent in the third quarter, after shrinking 0.6 percent in the second quarter, according to revised growth figures released earlier this month. The abrupt slowdown from a 6.8 percent annual growth rate in the first quarter of this year came as growth in exports and capital investment slowed.
 Economists had been concerned that the sudden deceleration meant that Japan would slip back into a recession like those that plagued it throughout the 1990's. But many economists now say that growth in exports should keep the economy from sinking further.
 Exports grew 13.4 percent in November from the same month a year earlier on strong demand overseas for Japanese cars and steel. Rising retail sales and healthy growth in China and the United States, the largest markets for Japanese goods, have fueled the growth in Japanese exports. 
 If export growth continues, as many economists say they expect, industrial output and capital investment are also likely to expand as companies invest to meet the demand abroad. 
 A strong export sector is crucial to Japan's health because the economy is not getting much help so far from consumer spending at home. Consumption, which accounts for more than half of the economy, has been weak amid a long slump in income growth and there are few signs that that will change anytime soon.
 Household spending sank 0.9 percent in November from a month earlier as people spent less on food and clothing, according to another government report released Tuesday. 
 Consumption is unlikely to pick up until incomes begin to rise, and although that is not happening yet, there are signs that the labor market is getting tighter, which may push wages higher if it continues. 
 Another report released Tuesday showed that job searchers were finding more jobs to choose from. The ratio of jobs to applicants rose to 0.92 in November, the highest level in more than 10 years, from 0.88 a month earlier. The ratio means that there were 92 jobs available for every 100 job hunters. 
 The government also reported that consumer prices declined 0.2 percent in November from a year earlier, extending a six-year run of deflation in Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); RETAIL SALES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); JAPANESE YEN (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Production; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (95%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



645 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Food Crises Take Priority

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''U.S. Cutting Food Aid That Is Aimed at Self-Sufficiency'' (news article, Dec. 22) correctly notes that United States efforts to feed the hungry around the world are strained by crises in Afghanistan, Sudan and elsewhere.
 The American government is the largest contributor of food aid to the hungry around the world. In 2004, we provided $945 million through the United Nations World Food Program -- half of all emergency food aid to the program.
 You focused on what we expect to be temporary deferrals in some start-up development programs to meet the more pressing needs of food emergencies, a reduction amounting to about 1 percent of the Agency for International Development's $9 billion budget in 2005. 
 In the last four years we have significantly increased the annual food aid budget to $1.2 billion from $800 million. But some food that would have been used to promote development must go to avert famine in Darfur, Sudan, and possibly Ethiopia and Afghanistan.
 Like anyone who has to live within a budget, the agency is prudently tackling the most dire situations first.

Andrew S. Natsios
Administrator, Agency
for International Development
Washington, Dec. 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMINE (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Food; Hunger

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) Agency for International Development

PERSON: Andrew S Natsios

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (90%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



646 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: RELIEF EFFORT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Irate Over 'Stingy' Remark, U.S. Adds $20 Million to Disaster Aid

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Reporting for this article was contributed by Warren Hoge at the United Nations, Matthew L. Wald and Eric Schmitt in Washington, and David E. Sanger in Crawford, Tex.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28 

 BODY:
Rejecting a United Nations official's suggestion that it had been a ''stingy'' aid donor, the Bush administration on Tuesday announced another $20 million in relief for victims of the Asian earthquake and tsunamis and dispatched an aircraft carrier and other ships to the region for possible relief operations.
 The announcement brought the United States' total aid package to $35 million so far, and Bush administration officials said much more would be sent. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, displaying irritation with the suggestion of American stinginess, said the United States had been the most generous of aid donors in recent years and that, in any case, the sums announced so far were ''just a start'' of a larger sustained effort.
 ''We will do more,'' Mr. Powell said on ABC's ''Good Morning America,'' one of a series of television appearances apparently intended to rebut the comment on Monday by Jan Egeland, the emergency relief coordinator for the United Nations, that the West had generally been ''stingy'' in its aid to poor countries. 
 Mr. Powell said the United States ''has given more aid in the last four years than any other nation or combination of nations in the world.''
 The United States Agency for International Development spent $2.4 billion in the last year for emergency disaster relief.
 Mr. Egeland responded to Mr. Powell's criticism by saying that he had been misunderstood and that he had not been referring to aid for the quake and tsunami victims but to the overall trend in recent years by Western countries in aiding the poor. He said pledges for the current crisis had been ''most generous.'' 
 ''I have been misinterpreted when I yesterday said that my belief that rich countries in general can be more generous,'' Mr. Egeland added. ''This has nothing to do with any particular country or the response to this emergency.''
 Trent Duffy, a spokesman for President Bush in Crawford, Tex., where Mr. Bush is on vacation, said the president had accepted Mr. Egeland's clarification and would make a public statement on the disaster Wednesday. Mr. Duffy said Mr. Bush had sent his condolences to the victims through statements by his spokesmen, written statements and letters to seven world leaders, but not through public pronouncements on television. ''The president is doing what is needed most, which is to authorize the U.S. government to play a leading role in the relief and recovery effort,'' Mr. Duffy said. 
 Mr. Egeland's comments are the latest in a line of long-running complaints from international aid officials about general trends in aid from Western nations. These critics often cite a figure once put forward at the United Nations that wealthy countries should try to reach a target of spending seven-tenths of 1 percent of their national economy for aid to poor countries.
 According to the Congressional Research Service, an independent agency, the United States is the largest aid donor in terms of dollars, but its record of donating two-tenths of 1 percent of its national economy for foreign aid makes it among the smallest donors as a proportion of what it could theoretically afford.
 Countering that argument, the State Department acknowledges on an official Web site that its direct economic aid is ''the smallest among government foreign assistance programs'' but that the ''true measure'' of American generosity should include private money. 
 In an interview, Mr. Egeland said that private and government money was appreciated but that relief for disaster victims in recent years had fallen far short of what was needed and what was pledged. 
 Victims of the earthquake in Bam, Iran, a year ago are still living in tents because permanent aid, as opposed to emergency provisions, has not materialized in the amounts pledged, aid officials said.
 ''Over all, there is too little money for foreign assistance, for development and for humanitarian relief, especially in Africa,'' Mr. Egeland said. ''We get one-third of what we ask for in our humanitarian appeals to poor African countries, and the number is going down. I see too many hungry children in the world, too many uncared for refugees, and too many unmet needs.''
 The Pentagon sent the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln and several other ships to the Indian Ocean, though military officials said the vessels and crews had not yet been assigned specific missions. About 15,000 Americans are on board. Only a small portion of them would be expected to fly missions or go ashore.
 American forces are going from Japan to a Thai air base in U Tapao, on the southeastern shore of the Gulf of Thailand, near Phuket, which was especially hard hit. The military has already sent nine P-3 aircraft for use in surveillance and search and rescue operations.

HOW TO HELP
Groups Aiding Quake Survivors

A longer list of agencies is online at nytimes.com/international.

ACTION AGAINST HUNGER
247 West 37th Street, Suite 1201
New York, N.Y. 10018
212-967-7800 x108
www.actionagainsthunger.org

CARE
151 Ellis Street
Atlanta, Ga. 30303
800-521-CARE
www.care.org

AMERICAN RED CROSS
International Response Fund
P.O. Box 37243
Washington, D.C. 20013
800-HELP NOW
www.redcross.org

CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES
Tsunami Emergency
P.O. Box 17090
Baltimore, Md. 21203-7090
800-736-3467
www.catholicrelief.org

DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS
P.O. Box 1856
Merrifield, Va. 22116-8056
888-392-0392
www.doctorswithoutborders.org

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF RED CROSS/RED CRESCENT
www.ifrc.org

ISLAMIC RELIEF USA
S.E. Asia Earthquake Emergency
P.O. Box 6098
Burbank, Calif. 91510
888-479-4968
www.irw.org/asiaquake

MERCY CORPS
S.E. Asia Earthquake Response
P.O. Box 2669
Portland, Ore. 97208
800-852-2100
www.mercycorps.org

OPERATION USA
8320 Melrose Avenue, Suite 200
Los Angles, Calif. 90069
800-678-7255
www.opusa.org

OXFAM AMERICA
Donor Services Department
26 West Street
Boston, Mass. 12111-1206
800-77-OXFAM
www.oxfamamerica.org

SAVE THE CHILDREN
54 Wilton Road
Westport, Conn. 06880
800-728-3843
www.savethechildren.org

UNICEF
333 E. 38th Street
New York, N.Y. 10016
800-4-UNICEF
www.unicef.org 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 1 about the global relief effort for Asian nations struck by the tsunami misstated the Bush administration's first pledge of aid. (Several later articles about the disaster also misstated the first pledge.) The administration pledged $4 million on Dec. 27 for the International Red Cross and raised the figure to $15 million later that day for the total American effort. That figure was raised to $35 million on Dec. 28 and to $350 million on Dec. 31. The first pledge was neither $35 million nor $15 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER RELIEF (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves; Foreign Aid; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



647 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Manhattan; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: A Record Deal Now Looks Like a Good One, Too

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
It has been 15 months since the record-breaking sale of the General Motors Building in Manhattan for $1.4 billion became the talk of the real estate industry. Many people wondered at the time if the buyer, Harry Macklowe, had paid too much for the structure, a 50-story off-white marble office building across Fifth Avenue from the Plaza Hotel.
 No one is wondering anymore.
 To prevail against a flock of other bidders, both foreign and domestic, and sew up the deal quickly, Mr. Macklowe not only made a $50 million nonrefundable deposit but also took on other risks, including a floating-rate mortgage, obtained from Deutsche Bank at the last minute. The complex deal included high-cost short-term equity and debt financing from Vornado Realty Trust, a public company, and from George Soros. To get Mr. Soros to participate, Mr. Macklowe, whose holdings include a half-dozen other office buildings in Midtown Manhattan, had to pledge several properties as collateral. 
 Next month, however, Mr. Macklowe expects to bring in a new equity partner on much more favorable terms. Jamestown, a private real estate company based in Atlanta that sells shares to German investors, has agreed to invest $300 million in the tower for an annual return of 7 percent to 8 percent, said Stephen J. Zoukis, a Jamestown partner. Replacing Vornado and Mr. Soros, who were getting a return of about 15 percent, will also free up Mr. Macklowe's other properties. In addition, the building is expected to get a new $1.1 billion mortgage at a fixed rate. 
 Mr. Macklowe, his son Billy and their spokesman declined requests for interviews, saying that the new financial structure for the 1.8-million-square-foot building was not yet final. But according to Commercial Mortgage Alert, a weekly newsletter that first reported that Jamestown would take a minority interest in the building, Mr. Macklowe, who put relatively little of his own money into the purchase -- a record at that time of $778 a square foot -- now values the property at $1.6 billion. If he is right, that would mean an increase in value of about $200 million since September 2003. ''That's a pretty good year's work,'' Mr. Zoukis said.
 Mr. Macklowe also plans to invest many millions of dollars to enhance his property. Plans call for creating a new entry to the lower-level plaza on the Fifth Avenue and moving the Madison Avenue entrance to 59th Street. Doing so would enable him to expand the retail space by eliminating the wide setbacks on that side of the building.
 Designed by Edward Durrell Stone and completed in 1968 for $75 million, the General Motors Building, made of pearl-gray Georgia marble, occupies the entire block between Fifth and Madison Avenues that stretches from 58th to 59th Streets. Even before the first tenants moved in, an editorial in The New York Times described the tower as ''appalling'' and a ''monstrous behemoth'' that clashed with the surrounding buildings and had a superfluous plaza that was even larger than the nearby Grand Army Plaza at the entrance to Central Park. 
 Until 1995, vehicles made by General Motors were displayed (although not sold) in a showroom on the first two floors, where a CBS studio is now housed. 
 Gone are the 4-foot-high gold-colored letters that spelled out T-R-U-M-P. Donald J. Trump, who bought the building with Conseco, the financial services company, in 1998, added a 37-foot-wide dark green marble entrance to the lower level, which reminds some people of a mausoleum. The partners had a long-running legal battle but agreed to put the building on the market after a judge ordered Mr. Trump to sell his stake in the property to Conseco.
 In its early days, the G.M. building was home to three cosmetics companies, but only one, Estee Lauder, remains. Other tenants include the newly reopened F.A.O. Schwarz toy store, the large law firm Weil Gotschal & Manges, and several buyout specialists, including Carl Icahn and Thomas Lee, who recently moved into space on the sixth floor. The top floor is occupied by Baron Capital Partners, an investment management firm.
 One reason the building has appreciated in value since last year is that the cash flow has improved, said Woody Heller, who heads the capital transactions group at Studley, a real estate brokerage firm, but was not involved in this deal. Several tenants have renewed at higher rents and the roster also includes new ones like Bank of America and K. Hovnanian, a home builder. New leases and renewals account for 350,000 square feet of space, according to CB Richard Ellis, the brokerage company representing the building. Space equivalent to three floors remains empty.
 According to CoStar Group, annual rents for the building average $105 a square foot, nearly double the rate for the high-priced neighborhood surrounding the Plaza Hotel. At the end of the third quarter, the average yearly rent in that district was $57.28 a square foot, said Lloyd Lynford, the president of Reis Inc., a New York research firm.
 Mr. Lynford said that the building's only rivals are 9 West 57th Street, between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas, and perhaps the much-admired Seagrams building at Park Avenue and 52nd Street, a less sought-after location. The G.M. building and 9 West 57th Street overlook Central Park and are near the homes of many top executives. ''Those buildings have what we call 100 percent location,'' Mr. Lynford said.
 The new leases are not the only reason that the building is worth more today, said Jeff W. Baker, a senior managing director at Granite Partners, a private real estate investment firm based in New York. Competition for real estate has grown increasingly feverish, with investors willing to accept ever-lower initial yields, especially in a market that is showing signs of improved leasing and higher rents. ''There's more confidence than there was a year ago and tremendous demand for assets like the G.M. Building, with that stability of cash flow,'' he said. 
 Robert M. White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics, a New York company that tracks real estate investments of at least $5 million, said Mr. Macklowe's calculation that the General Motors Building could sell today for about $900 a square foot does not seem unreasonable. A group of investors that includes William and Arthur Zeckendorf recently bought the Mayflower Hotel and an adjacent parking lot, just across Central Park from the G.M. Building, for $401 million and plan to build residential condominiums there. ''Zeckendorf paid $690 per buildable square foot for the site and still has to tear down the hotel and build a brand-new structure,'' Mr. White said.
 For Jamestown, one of the losers in last year's bidding war for the G.M. Building, the deal with Macklowe offered an opportunity to make a relatively low-risk investment in a well-known building. 
 A once-active acquirer of prime office buildings, Jamestown has curtailed its buying since real estate prices have soared. In this deal, Jamestown will have what is known as a preferred equity position, a means of investing that Mr. Zoukis said was becoming more common. Jamestown's interest will be less vulnerable than Mr. Macklowe's in case something goes wrong with the building. But Jamestown will not gain as much if the building thrives.
 ''There's a lot of value to be created by a smart, energetic developer, but that's not what we do,'' Mr. Zoukis said. ''We want to see an annual return, with some upside. But it doesn't have to be a home run. The home run ball goes to Harry.''
 Jamestown was one a handful of mostly foreign investors approached by Mr. Macklowe's adviser, the Carlton Group, a New York company that specializes in arranging equity transactions. Some real estate executives are disinclined to do business with Mr. Macklowe, who is still remembered for an incident in 1985, when his company tore down two single-room-occupancy hotels on West 44th Street during the night without turning off the utilities or obtaining permits.
 For now, at least, Mr. Macklowe is not likely to benefit from the return of F.A.O. Schwarz, which had closed after its parent company went under. The store, now owned by D.E. Shaw, has an airy, uncluttered new design by Rockwell Partners and a new soda fountain. But the toy retailer's lease does not expire until 2017, and several retail brokers said the rent was well below market rate.
 Mr. Macklowe's other plans are likely to be more fruitful. Mr. Macklowe has submitted applications to the Department of City Planning to do away with the Madison Avenue setback and to install a glass entrance to the Fifth Avenue retail space, similar to the one at the Grace Building, at 43rd Street and the Avenue of the Americas. City planning officials describe the Madison Avenue alterations as routine because the setbacks were not required when the building was developed. They said the proposal for the Fifth Avenue side of the building would require a more extensive review; it will go before a committee of Manhattan Community Board 5 next month, said Gary Parker, the district manager. At www.macklowespace.com/GM--improvements, renderings of the proposed improvements are displayed.
 With this new deal, Mr. Heller, of Studley, said Mr. Macklowe would be able to operate in a less pressured environment. ''He has secured a longer-term perspective to allow nature and Macklowe to take its course -- to create the value in a rational time period,'' Mr. Heller said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Macklowe, owner of the General Motors Building, plans to invest millions of dollars more in it, on top of its $1.4 billion purchase price. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); EQUITY FINANCING (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); DEBT FINANCING (69%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; General Motors Building (NYC); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Macklowe Organization

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (72%) Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (78%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



648 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani's True Legacy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''A Legacy of Giuliani Years: Civil Rights Suits Against City'' (news article, Dec. 24) suggests that a legacy of Rudolph W. Giuliani's mayoralty is one of disregard for the rights of citizens and employees.
 The true legacy of any mayor is what he has done to make his city a better place to live. 
 Mr. Giuliani inherited a crime-infested, economically faltering town that was the butt of jokes and a symbol of urban decay to the world. 
 He reclaimed it for its inhabitants and visitors and made it America's safest big city.
 Yes, his methods were controversial, but they worked. And his leadership on Sept. 11 reassured not only New Yorkers but also the world that someone was in charge.

Martin W. Schwartz
Nanuet, N.Y., Dec. 24, 2004

The writer is a former assistant district attorney in the Bronx.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%) Crime and Criminals

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%) Martin W Schwartz; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



649 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Put Your Voice Where Your Mouth Is

BYLINE: By Gary Giddins. 
Gary Giddins is the author, most recently, or ''Weather Bird: Jazz at the Dawn of its Second Century'' and ''Bing Crosby: A Pocketful of Dreams.''

 BODY:
ASHLEE SIMPSON got caught with her microphone down on ''Saturday Night Live'' in October, and five weeks later, on Dec. 5, ''Good Morning America,'' which had been especially gleeful in its post-mortem of the debacle, presented Lindsay Lohan in a ''live singing debut''-- lip-syncing just like Ms. Simpson. Good thing this was a slow news year so that the press could pay suitable attention to a cultural issue that has shocked many Americans over the age of 16. Forget the occupation of Iraq, the burgeoning debt, the war over values, and the passion of the Christ: this was the year we were obliged to face up to the fact that show business is show business. 
 Among other performers accused of moving their lips while a machine does the labor are Britney Spears, Luciano Pavarotti, Shania Twain, Beyonce and Madonna. (One person who won't be accused of lip-syncing is Kevin Spacey, but everyone who has seen ''Beyond the Sea'' wishes he had.) As for performers who sing in tandem with prepared tapes or backup tracks, this page could no more contain their number than it could that of film actors with lasered body parts. It's a wonder anyone bothers to deny it. Back in February it was reported that fans of Ms. Spears prefer her to lip-sync -- despite her denials of the practice -- because they expect flawless digitalization when they pay serious money for a concert. Besides, as Ms. Simpson complained to Katie Couric on ''Today,'' it's not like she engaged in anorexia or wardrobe malfunction.
 Indeed, the worse thing she did, beyond displaying an inability to ad-lib and the childlike inclination to blame others (many others) for her mishap, was to reveal that behind the curtain of contemporary show business is a man with his finger on a button. The father of modern entertainment was not P. T. Barnum, but Thomas Edison. We have been living in an increasingly lip-synced world for some 75 years, and we have yet to reach the bottom of a slippery slope. No profitable advance in technology has ever vanished, and this one is here to stay -- along with miniature microphones on Broadway, fake laughter on television, computer-generated images in the movies and Donald Trump. You want reality? Go to a ballgame. Oh, right: forgot.
 Baby boomers who now shake their heads in dismay at what the world is coming to grew up with lip-syncing. On Dick Clark's ''American Bandstand,'' there was no band and no bandstand, only the fear that the record might skip while a grinning performer gyrated, his or her lips moving as mutely as those of Steve Reeves in ''Hercules.'' Old movies that were then a routine part of network television offered jokes and plots built on the deception of lip-syncing. In ''Singin' in the Rain,'' Jean Hagen is laughed out of the theater when the audience learns that she is mouthing Debbie Reynolds. In ''Road to Morocco,'' Bing Crosby, Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour reluctantly lip-sync one another.
 Lip-syncing got its first and steadiest boost in Hollywood, shortly after the introduction of sound: in 1929, MGM prerecorded an intricate number, ''The Wedding of the Painted Doll,'' for ''The Broadway Melody.'' Most sound engineers regarded dubbing as undignified; they argued that music ought to be live, especially given the technological advances that allowed them to capture vocal nuance. They were overruled by three problems, all solved by lip-syncing.
 First, singing is physically constraining -- a singer cannot maintain pitch and vibrato while leaping around a stage -- and movies depend on movement. An example of that dilemma can be seen in the Marx Brothers first feature film, ''The Cocoanuts,'' in which the romantic couple stops the film in its tracks in the seconds it takes them to draw a breath or summon the proper vocal mask. 
 The second problem was one of economics. By lip-syncing musical numbers, the production did not have to install an orchestra on the set or worry about repeated takes or the noise made by crane shots. In 1930, Universal was frantic to stop the hemorrhaging of money in completing its revue, ''The King of Jazz,'' featuring the bandleader Paul Whiteman. Whiteman suggested that the musical numbers be prerecorded; that way carpenters could hammer new sets while musicians, singers and dancers went through the motions on the ones already built. 
 The studios invented and resolved the third problem when they realized that audiences didn't notice lip-syncing, let alone mind it. Producers reasoned that if actors could lip-sync themselves, they could just as easily lip-sync others. You want Rita Hayworth and Ava Gardner but don't trust their singing? Bring in stunt-singers -- like in ''Singin' in the Rain.'' During the same year Whiteman was filming ''King of Jazz,'' Duke Ellington introduced the song ''Three Little Words'' in the film ''Check and Double Check,'' but the three musicians he assigned the vocal part weren't very good. So Ellington asked the director to hire the Rhythm Boys (the trio, with Bing Crosby, that Whiteman made famous). Since the film couldn't show a racially integrated ensemble -- white singers in a black band -- the Rhythm Boys stood behind a curtain with a microphone, while band members lip-synced them. How far a slide down the slippery slope is it from Audrey Hepburn pretending to sing in ''My Fair Lady'' to Milli Vanilli pretending to sing on their Grammy winning 1990 album, ''Girl You Know It's True''? 
 In 1946, Crosby revolutionized the entertainment world when he walked out on his NBC contract, which forbade him from prerecording his radio show. Crosby reasoned that taping a program would allow him to edit and perfect it; besides, he had prerecorded countless shows for the troops overseas and no one complained. The networks argued that audiences would never accept a canned show in a live medium. The networks, of course, were wrong. On one occasion, Crosby's engineers realized that the program was a minute or so short; one of them found a piece of tape with applause and laughter and suggested editing it in to fill the time. How far a slide is it from borrowed laughter to fake laughter to fake audiences? 
 Crosby, paradoxically, was one of the few musical film stars who occasionally insisted on filming a song live. In Frank Capra's ''Riding High'' of 1950, Crosby had a complicated number, ''Sunshine Cake,'' involving Colleen Gray, Clarence Muse and lots of physical business, including Crosby playing spoons and Muse playing guitar. When you see the film you are really seeing those performers singing and dancing. Or are you? It happened that Muse could not play guitar or convincingly fake it, so for the close-ups they brought in a guitarist, Perry Botkin, and blacked up his hands. (Why they didn't hire a black guitarist is another story.) How far a slide is it from fake hands to a fake Fred Astaire vacuuming in a commercial to a fake cast in ''The Polar Express''?
 We protest that live performance is different, the last bastion of reality. But we surrendered to illusion when we accepted amplification as a substitute for natural acoustics long ago. A series of Memorex ads proclaimed that we could no longer be certain if Ella Fitzgerald or a mechanical device was popping glassware with high notes. For that matter, we couldn't be certain if singing had anything to do with the shattering of the glass because, after all, it was a TV ad. On Broadway, singers are so over-microphoned that their disembodied voices suffuse the theater, coming at you from every direction except the singers' throats. If a modern-day Mary Martin were suffering from, say, acid reflux, and were to expertly lip-sync her performance one night, how many in the audience would know? Or care? 
 Recording devices, along with every technological development since the taming of electricity, frighten us. Like the aborigine who fears his soul will be stolen by a photograph, we are made suspicious by the dehumanizing potential of canned speech. Movies have long exploited that mistrust. In Fritz Lang's ''The Testament of Dr. Mabuse,'' made in 1933, the eponymous megalomaniac uses a recording device in order to pretend to be where he isn't. A decade later, Hitler did the same thing. In the mid-40's, when Crosby was making headlines because of his insistence on prerecording his radio show, a series of films exploited the nefarious side of deceptive recordings -- to advance blackmail in ''Nightmare Alley'' and murder in ''The Unsuspected'' and ''The Falcon's Alibi.'' 
 By that time, Hollywood was dubbing more than vocals; feet-dubbers were also in demand, to match dance steps to scenes in which the dancers were filmed without sound. One of the best of them, Miriam Nelson, has told of dubbing the tap routine of a famous star with famously bad timing. Ms. Nelson asked the director if she should duplicate the star's taps or follow the music. The director told her to follow the music, explaining that if the audience heard the correct taps it would buy the illusion that the star was on point. 
 We buy into worse illusions all the time. In the 1960's, it was a matter of pride for musicians as varied as Vladimir Horowitz and Dave Brubeck to refuse touch-ups on their live recordings. Does that kind of pride even exist in a world of automatic pitch shifters that can adjust off-key singing, and digital fixes that eliminate human error and a bit of humanity itself? The world in which Al Jolson (who lip-synced most of his film appearances in the 1930's and was himself lip-synced in ''The Jolson Story'') had to reach the last row of the highest balcony on lung power alone is long gone. Ladies and gentlemen, Jolie has left the building. Cue Ashlee Simpson.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Mirko Ilic) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); FILM (87%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); MUSIC (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%) Music; Motion Pictures

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); LINDSAY LOHAN (57%); BRITNEY SPEARS (56%); KATIE COURIC (55%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (52%); DONALD TRUMP (50%) Garry Giddins

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004



650 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing Design

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Two years ago, Medtronic, best known for its pacemakers, introduced the CareLink, a home-use wireless gadget that can transmit relevant data from implanted devices. Its engineers designed the original monitor. But when it comes out with the next version, another company will design it.
 ''We'd rather use our in-house people on really new core products,'' said Reggie Groves, vice president of patient management.
 Lots of manufacturers are sounding that note these days. And that has given rise to a whole new industry, dedicated to designing products and parts for companies that once considered every aspect of the process as sacrosanct. 
 This is not because companies are trying to tap foreign sources of cheap labor. The new design firms are not in India or China, but in New York, California -- all over the United States. But their clients have the same overall goal as those that ship jobs to Bangalore: to churn out products -- even ones that look much like the competition's -- at high speed and low cost.
 ''Manufacturers are all asking whether the cost of product differentiation exceeds the benefits,'' said Cliff Waldman, an economist with the Manufacturers Alliance, a policy research group in Arlington, Va. 
 The push is too new to yield hard data, but anecdotal evidence is mounting. Honeywell just contracted with I.B.M. to design many of the core processors that go into its fighter jet displays. Boeing Commercial Aircraft has contracted out parts of the design of the wing structure and fuselage on its Boeing 7E7.
 General Motors Shanghai asked Visteon to design much of the interior of a high-end car it now sells in China. The trend does raise some thorny questions. Who owns the patents on outsourced designs? Will equipment manufacturers turn their innovative instincts to marketing rather than invention? And if they do, are competing products going to look alike, as more companies turn to the same players in the new design-for-hire game? 
 ''Whenever suppliers get the edge on innovation,'' warned George Stalk, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group, ''the ability to differentiate is lost.''
 That fear is not stopping the flow of design work to third parties, though. ''More and more manufacturers are forcing innovation down to their supplier base,'' said David Bleustein, an industrial analyst with UBS Investment Research.
 For many manufacturers, that represents a cultural sea change. Ed Wheeler, vice president of defense and space electronic systems for Honeywell, readily concedes that, just a few years back, Honeywell would have considered product design a core strength, and would have scoffed at outsourcing it.
 But these days, ''organic development takes time and huge investments,'' he said, ''so it makes sense to leverage other people's technology.'' 
 Boeing has grown similarly flexible. ''We'll always design the airplane's basic shape, but we now realize we don't have to design every detail,'' said Michael J. Denton, vice president of Boeing Commercial Airplanes Engineering.
 Design help is getting ever easier to find. Two years ago I.B.M. formed its Engineering and Technology Services unit, which has designed components like chips for Sony PlayStations and processors for Honeywell aircraft instruments. The operation, which I.B.M. executives have publicly referred to as an area of ''hypergrowth,'' already has 1,200 people and had $160 million in revenues in 2003.
 Contract manufacturers also are adding to their design staffs.
 ''Design work is clearly where our market is going,'' said Craig London, an executive vice president at Solectron, which makes electronic products that sell under other companies' brand names. Mr. London said that last year more than a dozen clients, hoping to extend the life of older products without devoting research dollars to them, hired Solectron to redesign them to be cheaper to make. 
 Even parts suppliers are getting into the arena. Visteon, an automotive supplier that originated as an engineering division at Ford, recently designed special headlamps for G.M.'s Corvette. For G.M. Shanghai, it surveyed affluent Chinese businessmen about their car preferences and translated the results into rear-seat temperature controls and front-seat holders for tea jars.
 ''Car companies used to say, 'Here's a drawing, turn it into a high-quality, low-cost product,''' said Richard Vaughan, director of North American design at Visteon. ''Now they are saying, 'What can you design that will sell more cars?'''
 Car companies are not alone in asking such questions. More manufacturers now view their branded equipment as mere conduits to sales of lucrative consumable products (say, the inks and papers used by printers) and services (maintaining a fleet of jetliners, or managing data centers). 
 ''Companies aren't selling products, but services to wrap around products,'' said Noel P. Greis, professor of operations at the University of North Carolina's Kenan-Flagler Business School. Other reasons are fueling the trend as well: 
 $(6$)By the time a company designs a product from scratch, it could already be obsolete. Jack L. Kelly, a conglomerate analyst at Goldman Sachs, said, ''When technology is changing every six months, it makes sense to go to specialists.''
 $(6$)Many of the newest product fillips are built on research from other industries. Hank C. Queen, vice president for engineering and manufacturing for Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said, ''You can't have a fortress mentality when someone else's designs can give you a competitive edge.'' 
 $(6$)Many leading-edge technologies have become routine. The chips inside most cellphones are pretty standard, for example, so T-Mobile, Sprint and other telecommunications companies now let low-cost Asian manufacturers design as well as build the phones that bear their names. 
 $(6$)The protracted economic slowdown forced companies to do triage on costs. Donald B. Rosenfield, a senior lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, said, ''They are concentrating on what they do best, which is develop brands and plumb the marketplace.''
 $(6$)Internet technology has made it easier to coordinate with off-premises designers. Boeing, for example, has farmed out design work to such geographically disparate companies as Fuji Heavy Industries in Japan, Vought Aircraft Industries in Dallas, and Alenia Aeronautica in Italy. Mr. Queen said, ''It's a lot easier when you don't have to send 500-page documents every time something changes.''
 But outsourcing design has also brought an array of troubling implications. For one thing, critics say, a certain sameness creeps into products when competitors turn to the same specialists for designs. 
 ''There's no question: the 2004 models of competitive cars look a lot more alike than the 1994 models did,'' said Sunil Chopra, a professor of operations management at the University of Chicago's Kellogg School of Management.
 So, apparently, do most bicycles.
 Skip Hess, president of Giant Bicycle, a subsidiary of Giant Manufacturing of Taiwan, said, ''We don't want to figure out how to put a cellphone holder on a bike when someone else knows how to do it cheaply and well. But it keeps getting harder for consumers to differentiate between different brands.''
 David Reid, chair of international business at the Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Business, raises a potentially more worrisome issue. ''The question of who owns the intellectual property remains a very muddy one,'' he said. 
 Most manufacturers insist on written guarantees that designers working on their projects will not do similar work for competitors. But the designers counter that they can create low-cost, high-quality products only by building on every bit of expertise they develop. 
 Clients acknowledge that. Some future G.M. cars, for example, will include a braking stability system that uses a tiny gyroscope on a computer chip that senses when a car is about to spin out of control. Robert Bosch, a German company, is developing much of the system; G.M. will own the intellectual property on the final results.
 ''But we know that they will use some of the basic learning on systems that they will pitch to other companies,'' said Tom Wilkinson, director of corporate technology communications for General Motors North America.
 So will Visteon. G.M. Shanghai owns the designs that Visteon drew up for its high-end car. ''But sure, we will share what we learned about colors and textures and preferences with other customers,'' Mr. Vaughan said. 
 That kind of expertise is hard to patent, or to own. And even third-party designers concede that intellectual property fights could derail their fledgling industry. 
 ''The intellectual property issue remains the most complicated thing we have to deal with,'' said Pat Toole, general manager of I.B.M. Engineering and Technology Services. ''If we can all figure it out, farming out design will be a common model in the future. If we can't, it won't.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about companies that are outsourcing product design misstated the affiliation of Sunil Chopra, a professor who commented on the trend. He is at the Kellogg School of Management -- part of Northwestern University, not the University of Chicago. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Solectron factory in California. Solectron makes electronic products that sell under the names of other companies. (Photo by Thor Swift)(pg. C1)
 Boeing Commercial Aircraft has contracted with others for some of the design of the wing structure and fuselage on its Boeing 7E7. (Photo by Mike Clarke/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); PATENTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); AIRLINES (69%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%) United States Economy; Design; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airlines and Airplanes; Automobiles; Inventions and Patents; United States Economy; Advertising and Marketing; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: BOEING CO (82%); MEDTRONIC INC (58%); VISTEON CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Honeywell International; Boeing Co; General Motors Corp ; International Business Machines Corp; Visteon Corp

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); MDT (NYSE) (58%); VC (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (76%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



651 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Existing-Home Sales Rose in November

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes rose 2.7 percent in November, making 2004 the best year ever for housing, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday in Washington.
 Existing homes sold at a 6.94 million annual rate, up from a 6.76 million pace in October. A record 6.14 million existing homes have been sold this year, surpassing the 6.1 million in 2003. 
 ''The real estate market just went from red hot to white hot,'' James Gillespie, chief executive of Coldwell Banker Real Estate, which is based in Parsippany, N.J., said in an interview. 
 The creation of more than two million jobs in the last year, income growth and 30-year mortgage rates below 6 percent have bolstered housing and the economy as homeowners spend more on furnishings and appliances. 
 The median selling price of an existing home was $188,200 last month, up 1.5 percent from $185,400 in October, the statistics showed. The median price is up 10 percent from November 2003, the biggest 12-month jump since July 1987. 
 Sales rose in the West, South and Midwest and declined in the Northeast. The inventory of houses for sale held at 4.3 months. 
 Economists had forecast that previously owned home sales in November would reach a 6.75 million annual rate, the same as the previously reported pace for October.
 Existing homes account for 85 percent of the residential real estate market in the nation. The realtors group expects 6.38 million previously owned homes to be sold in 2005, the second-best on record. 
 Sales of previously owned homes are based on contract closings and tend to lag statistics based on signings, like new home sales. 
 The 30-year mortgage rates averaged 5.84 percent in 2004, holding near last year's record low of 5.83 percent and helping drive home sales to all-time highs, Freddie Mac said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (96%); REAL ESTATE (94%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%) National Assn of Realtors; Freddie Mac

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



652 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Doctor Will See You ... at Home; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Add House Calls for Older Patients

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The doctor pulled out a stethoscope and Gladys Martinez stopped smiling.
 She inhaled. Her heart-shaped earrings trembled. The doctor listened. Two years ago, Mrs. Martinez survived a heart attack. Stethoscopes remain a cold reminder, the dreaded moment of any medical exam.
 But the angst passed with unusual speed. The doctor finished the checkup, and without moving an inch, Mrs. Martinez, 75, resumed rocking in her favorite chair, in the living room of her Bronx apartment, surrounded by the soft comfort of family photographs and porcelain dolls. 
 No more waiting rooms or tedious paperwork, never mind the two buses she took to the hospital or the times she collapsed trying to get there.
 Now, Mrs. Martinez's doctor is coming to her, as part of a growing trend in geriatric care, and some say a necessary one. She is among 65 patients enrolled since October in the Montefiore Medical House Call Program at Montefiore Medical Center, the latest of several efforts by hospitals in New York City to care for a rapidly growing elderly population.
 Toting state-of-the-art equipment, like portable EKG and Doppler machines, doctors and nurses enter the homes of older patients to conduct complex, if routine, exams. Technological advances have made the practice possible, but in some ways it is a throwback to another era.
 ''In the history of medicine, this is what doctors did,'' said Dr. Laurie G. Jacobs, the director of geriatrics at Montefiore Medical Center and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, in the Bronx. 
 In the modern age, perhaps never has the need for home health care been greater. The city's elderly population, like the nation's, is booming as people live longer. Roughly 1.25 million New Yorkers are over age 60. In the next 10 years, this group is expected to grow by 20 percent, according to the City Department for the Aging. By 2050, the number of people over 65 is expected to double nationally to 87 million.
 Longevity brings a host of new medical challenges. People are more likely to survive heart attacks, strokes and cancer than they were decades ago, but survival often comes with chronic ailments. Heart disease patients are frequently short of breath and cannot walk far, limiting their ability to get out of the house. Stroke victims often have trouble performing basic tasks. As more people live longer, more suffer from dementia. Going to the doctor or taking the right medication every day can prove daunting, if not impossible.
 ''They're in their homes very quietly, and nobody knows they're not managing until they haven't paid their rent or their mail piles up,'' Dr. Jacobs said.
 Compounding the problem is the fact that families are often ill equipped to care for their oldest members. Adult children are more dispersed, and less able to provide help. ''You no longer have the unemployed housewife who might have been available decades ago to take care of Grandma,'' said Dr. F. Russell Kellogg, chairman of the department of community medicine at St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, which pioneered one of the first home visit programs, in 1973. 
 In New York City, roughly one-third of people over the age of 65 live alone -- more than 300,000 people -- according to the Department for the Aging. Many of them struggle, with piecemeal help. 
 Filling the void are at least four New York City hospitals, which now regularly send doctors, nurses and social workers into the homes of more than 1,000 patients. They do a range of things to help patients manage their lives, from handling insurance claims and checking the refrigerator to taking blood samples and conducting hearing tests.
 Mount Sinai School of Medicine, on the Upper East Side, began its Visiting Doctors Program in 1996 with 23 patients. It now has 813. North General Hospital, in East Harlem, started making home visits two years ago and now treats 121 patients.
 The programs find their patients through referrals by hospital staff members, case management organizations or, sometimes, city services like Meals on Wheels. But often, word is spread among neighbors.
 ''You hit a spot and you get flooded with referrals,'' said Dr. Jan I. Maby, director of North General Hospital's house call program. ''There are so many people out there we could open four more full-time programs and still not serve everyone.''
 Angela Amadeo is very ill. She used to dread every trip to the emergency room. 
 ''She's afraid of the ambulance,'' said her husband, Jose Amadeo. ''She starts to shake. The blood leaves her face.''
 The wait in the hospital is unbearable, said Mrs. Amadeo, 74.
 But in the month since the Montefiore medical team began visiting Mrs. Amadeo's apartment in Tremont, the Bronx, she has not left home. Without the help, it would be hard to imagine her avoiding the hospital for so long: she is hooked to a catheter and suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes and osteoporosis. A thin coat of fuzz is all that remains of her hair, and dark circles rim her eyes. She takes more than a dozen medications a day.
 ''She's taking too many; it's too much for her stomach,'' Mr. Amadeo told Dr. Eastlyn Harding-Marin as she leaned over her patient's bed, shining a light into her eyes.
 Standing nearby, Carole Smyth, the program's geriatric nurse practitioner, examined the orange plastic bottles on Mrs. Amadeo's dresser. She eliminated a blood pressure medicine, reduced the dose of another and wrote a new medication schedule for Mr. Amadeo to follow for his wife.
 The moment illustrated a mantra among house call practitioners: Only in the home can doctors and nurses get a close-up look at how a patient is faring. Mr. Amadeo seemed relieved at the end of the visit.
 Dr. Harding-Marin turned to him and patted his shoulder. ''It's really tough,'' she said.
 Mr. Amadeo stared at his wife and smiled. ''I'm not going to leave her alone after 53 years together,'' he said.
 Running these programs is costly, but may save hospitals money in the long run. The Montefiore program, which employs one full-time doctor, nurse, social worker and outreach coordinator, is expected to cost about $850,000 in its first year, an expense that will be offset by Medicare reimbursements and grants. But hospitals see value in these programs because they help curb the soaring costs of emergency hospital stays, which are often the result of poor medical monitoring.
 Government spending on home health care for the elderly is also growing. Medicare's contribution to home care jumped nationally to $9.6 billion in 2002 from $7.3 billion in 2000, according to the Web site for the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. In New York State, Medicare spent about $650 million on home health care in 2002, the fourth-highest amount of any state in the nation. 
 It is easy to see why the relatives of ailing older people would flock to these programs for help. The Montefiore program's staff arranges for pharmacies to deliver medication to the patients. For Mrs. Martinez, the patient with heart problems, the team rolled up a carpet that could have tripped her.
 ''What we're really trying to do is maximize the patient's ability to keep active and not be in acute pain,'' Dr. Harding-Marin said.
 So far, the mission has been successful for Sarah Ford, who is 90 and lives alone in Williamsbridge, the Bronx. 
 Spunky but frail, Mrs. Ford suffered a stroke two years ago. She was racked with pain from rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis when she began the Montefiore program on Nov. 3. She struggled to walk. Like many patients in the program, Mrs. Ford gets help from home health aides and relatives. But she still needed to leave her apartment to get to the doctor, a trip that often took half the day and left her exhausted.
 The team prescribed two new medicines, including Lidoderm, in the form of a patch she wears on her back.
 ''Is that helping you at all?'' Dr. Harding-Marin asked on a recent visit.
 ''Yes, yes,'' Mrs. Ford said, nodding as she sat in her beige reclining chair, 10 feet from her television.
 ''You're doing pretty good,'' the doctor said before she left.
 ''Trying to,'' Mrs. Ford replied, a smile forming. ''Only thing I can't do is dance.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Eastlyn Harding-Marin, from Montefiore Medical Center, visits Gladys Martinez, 75, at her apartment in the Bronx. Mrs. Martinez is among 65 patients enrolled since October in Montefiore's house call program.
Dr. Jan I. Maby, director of North General Hospital's house call program, uses a pulse oximeter to check blood oxygen levels at the home of an 89-year-old patient. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Dr. Harding-Marin checks up on Sarah Ford, 90, who lives in Williamsbridge, the Bronx. Trips to the doctor used to exhaust Mrs. Ford, who had a stroke two years ago. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); GERIATRICS (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); AGING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); AGING TRENDS (88%); STROKES (78%); CANCER (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); FAMILY (75%); TRENDS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); DEMENTIA (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (63%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Home Health Care; Aged; Doctors; Nursing and Nurses; Finances; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Andrea Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



653 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: All Justice, Too, Is Local

BYLINE: By Eric A. Posner. 
Eric Posner, a law professor at the University of Chicago, is the author of ''The Limits of International Law.''

 BODY:
IN its final decision of the year, the International Court of Justice in The Hague decided that it had no jurisdiction to determine whether Serbia and Montenegro had a valid legal claim against NATO countries that participated in the intervention in Kosovo in 1999. While few people outside of Belgrade probably paid much attention, it the decision was symbolically very important: it demonstrated just how incapable the court is of resolving disputes, and what little hope the new International Criminal Court has to do much better.
 First, there is no doubt that, in strictly legal terms, NATO's intervention violated international standards. What was unclear was whether the court had jurisdiction to act against it. In this, the court was in an unenviable position: if it had held against the NATO states, they would surely have ignored the judgment. By holding in favor of these states, the court showed its irrelevance. 
 The decision was a fitting end to a dismal year for the court, which is the United Nations' judicial organ. Earlier this year, Israel rejected an advisory opinion that held that its security wall in the West Bank was illegal. The United States reacted lethargically to its third loss in a row on the question of whether it is in violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations because police often fail to inform foreign citizens they have arrested of their consular rights. Along with the Serbia case, these two decisions were the court's only major actions in 2004.
 And the year was not anomalous. Throughout its 60-year history, the court has averaged only a few cases a year, and has rendered a decision in fewer than 100 all told. By contrast, the World Trade Organization's settlement system, in place for less than a decade, has already heard several hundred cases; and the European Court of Justice, which hears disputes between European Union members, has heard thousands of cases in its half-century existence. 
 Most disturbing for supporters of the court of justice is that it has been doing worse as it has aged. It hears cases at about the same rate today as it did 50 years ago, even though the number of countries in the world has tripled during that time; this means that the annual number of cases per nation has declined by two thirds even as global interaction has soared. Increasingly, major states avoid the court. In the last 30 years, the countries with the ten largest economies have brought only two contentious cases to The Hague. 
 Many major nations -- China, Japan and Russia -- have never been a party to an International Court of Justice case. Others, including France, Britain and America, have lost whatever enthusiasm for the court that they once had. In the court's first 20 years, these three states brought more than a dozen cases; in the last 20 years, they have brought only one.
 A principal reason for the decline of the court is that many countries have restricted its jurisdiction over them. The main way that the court obtains power is by having states submit to ''compulsory jurisdiction'' -- that is, file declarations in which they consent to be sued by any other state that has filed a similar declaration. The founders of the court of justice hoped that eventually all nations would submit to compulsory jurisdiction. 
 But since the court's early years, the fraction of the world's nations subject to compulsory jurisdiction has declined from two-thirds to one-third. And many countries that technically remain subject to compulsory jurisdiction have used various tricks to ensure that it can be used against them only in the narrowest circumstances. For example, India excludes matters within its ''domestic jurisdiction'' and concerning its territorial boundaries. Further, the biggest powers have mostly opted out: at one time all permanent members of the Security Council other than the Soviet Union consented to compulsory jurisdiction, but China, France and the United States withdrew in the 1970's and 1980's, leaving only Great Britain.
 The other main avenue for the court of justice to obtain jurisdiction is on a treaty-by-treaty basis. During its first two decades, nearly 200 treaties were forged in which the signers conferred jurisdiction of disputes to the court. Over the last 20 years, only about a dozen new treaties included International Court of Justice oversight.
 Why have countries abandoned the court? The most plausible answer is that they do not trust the judges to rule impartially, but expect them to vote the interests of the states of which they are citizens. Statistics bear out this conjecture. When their home countries are parties to litigation, judges vote in favor of them about 90 percent of the time. When their states are not parties, judges tend to vote for states that are more like their home states. Judges from wealthy states tend to vote in favor of wealthy states, and judges from poor states tend to vote in favor of poor states. In addition, judges from democracies appear to favor democracies; judges from authoritarian states appear to favor authoritarian states. This is not to say that the judges pay no attention to the law. But there is no question that politics matter.
 History bears out this argument. From the beginning of the cold war, the Soviet Union and its satellites refused to subject themselves to the jurisdiction of a court they felt was dominated by representatives of hostile countries. However, with decolonization, the composition of the International Court of Justice changed, and many more judges came from newly independent states that were unhappy with the Western-dominated international legal system. The watershed moment came when the court found the United States had violated international law by mining Nicaraguan harbors in 1984. America, which had long been the court's champion, rejected the judgment and withdrew from compulsory jurisdiction. 
 Today, many of those with faith in international adjudication have switched their allegiance from the International Court of Justice and the fledgling International Criminal Court, which was established by treaty in 1998 and has yet to begin operating. But the criminal court has all the defects of its older sibling. Its independent prosecutor and judges have every incentive to take account of the political interests of the states of which they are nationals. With its broad mandate to enforce ambiguous laws in a world that is overflowing with war criminals, the criminal court's prosecutor and judges have enormous discretion to pick defendants for maximum political effect.
 The countries with the most to lose from politicized enforcement of international law have refused to submit to the International Criminal Court's jurisdiction, but they still must fear that their citizens, if indicted, will be arrested while traveling. In a sped-up version of the court of justice's history, the United States has already expended considerable diplomatic effort to persuade parties to the criminal court not to hand over any Americans who are indicted. Thus even before it has had its first case, the International Criminal Court is losing its ability to exercise its jurisdiction.
 It needn't have been this way. America could have been a supporter of the criminal court, if only the court's founders had agreed to make prosecutions turn on Security Council authorization, which would have given the major powers vetoes over prosecutions. Without such assurances of immunity, America will be reluctant to turn over war criminals to the court because doing so would legitimate an institution that Washington sees as hostile to its interests. 
 At one time people hoped that the criminal court would render unnecessary the cumbersome, ad hoc war-crimes tribunals like the one that has been trying Slobodan Milosevic. This hope has been shattered. It is hard to imagine a renegotiation of the International Criminal Court's treaty in the near future, but if the body fails to accomplish anything of value over the next several years, perhaps the issue of major power immunity will be revisited. Successful international organizations either adapt to great power politics or they wither on the vine; it is a choice that the supporters of global justice will soon face.

Maureen Dowd and Thomas L. Friedman are on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURISDICTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (84%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (91%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%) SERBIA (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



654 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Boat Builders Create Alliance To Promote Industry in Maine

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: EAST BOOTHBAY, Me. 

 BODY:
Employees of Hodgdon Yachts, a custom boat company here, had no doubt their vessels were among the best at a trade show in Dusseldorf, Germany, in early 2003. Hodgdon's small promotion booth, however, was eclipsed by boat builders united under the Dutch flag, who enticed potential clients with a big pavilion featuring a beer garden.
 Other countries, including Germany and New Zealand, also banded their marine companies under their national flags. And while Hodgdon, which makes luxury yachts and sailboats, is known worldwide and markets itself well for a small company, it lacks the resources to compete with campaigns backed by a national government. 
 ''We look out and we have our little booth,'' said Steve Von Vogt, manager of special projects at Hodgdon, recalling the trade show in Dusseldorf. ''They're large, government-sponsored pavilions, and we thought we ought to try what they're doing.''
 Hodgdon was ready to take on the world in February 2004. It banded together with nine competitors and the state government in an alliance to promote boats built in Maine, pulling together a 400-year-old industry known for its independence and self-sufficiency. The alliance plans to unveil a three-year marketing and economic plan early next year and expects other companies to join.
 Those involved with the alliance said its main goal was to lure to Maine wealthy residents of the East Coast who travel abroad to buy their boats. "The United States has lost a market share for large private vessels to Europe and the South Pacific," Mr. Von Vogt said. "It isn't a question of sales lagging, it's a question of developing a more robust industry."
 The industry in Maine, once known for building military vessels, has had to reinvent itself over the last 60 years. About 450 companies, mainly makers of custom boats, remain in the state, and they generated $612 million in revenue in 2002, according to Susan Swanton, the executive director of the Maine Marine Trade Association. Many of the companies have been in the same family for generations, including Hodgdon, which was founded in 1816. Tim Hodgdon, owner of the company, said that he hoped the alliance would help the business.
 It makes everything from Hodgdon's Antonisa -- a sailboat costing millions of dollars that features a teak deck that is 125 feet long, a handmade bathtub made of cherry wood, a 10-seat dining table and a fire-place -- to high-tech canoes made by Old Town Canoes in Old Town, Me.
 Though all of the companies in the alliance have limited marketing budgets, they believe they will close the sales gap with companies like Royal Huisman of the Netherlands and Alloy of New Zealand, which churn out dozens of boats annually and have big marketing campaigns supported by their governments. 
 Hodgdon is the largest company in the alliance, with 100 employees.
 ''From a marketing point of view, the Maine boat builder has always held his cards close to his chest,'' said John Kachmar, owner of Wilbur Yachts in Southwest Harbor, Me. ''Maine builders are known as high-quality builders, but people might not be aware we can offer what we do, from an 18-foot boat to a 160-foot motor yacht, all available in this state.''
 Wilbur employs about 15 people and sells between three and five power boats a year. Mr. Kachmar advertises in trade publications and on the Internet and said that even though his boats sell for up to $2 million, advertising money was tight.
 ''If we can market Maine boat builders as a collaborative effort, it will multiply the effort to get out there,'' Mr. Kachmar said.
 ''I think it will bring more boat customers to the state of Maine, as simple as that,'' he said.
 The alliance was created last year after Nigel Calder, a boating writer in Maine, sent a paper to the state's economic development office urging Gov. John E. Baldacci to replicate an organization in New Zealand, which marketed that nation's boat builders so well that the country's marine exports grew to $389 million in 2003 from $82 million in 1994. 
 The similarities between Maine and New Zealand were striking to Mr. Calder. Both have long traditions of producing high-quality boats; both have gorgeous stretches of forested mountains and beaches underpinning a thriving tourist industry; and both had boating industries with untapped potential.
 Last February, Jack Cashman, commissioner of economic development in Maine, arranged a meeting with the state's 20 or so biggest boat builders. He asked the builders if they would be interested in drawing up a business plan based on Mr. Calder's suggestion. Many were, and each chipped in $250 to be part of the alliance. The builders have held periodic meetings to develop the plan and submit it for review by the state; the final version is to be made public in January. Though nobody expects an explosion in boat sales equivalent to the nearly fivefold increase New Zealand enjoyed, the state's boat builders are optimistic that the industry can triple its sales to more than $1 billion within 10 years.
 That, in turn, would have a ripple effect throughout the economy, boosting ancillary companies like sail makers and furniture makers and creating thousands of jobs, they say. Members of the alliance said the state was already preparing to open apprentice programs at colleges and universities for woodworking, sailmaking and other skills used in boat building.
 The alliance is also working with scientists at the University of Maine in Orono to produce lightweight composites for shipbuilding. Hodgdon is working with the university to build a prototype of a special operations boat for the United States Navy.
 ''The goal is to create jobs and position the state and businesses for future growth in this industry,'' Elaine Scott, marketing manager for the state's economic development office, said. Maine is also hoping the initiative will increase tourism by promoting the small islands off the coast as a cruising destinations and regatta sites.
 While making common cause with rivals is unfamiliar territory for members of the alliance, they said that they figured the pluses outweigh the minuses. In fact, Mr. Kachmar said, ''It's a good situation to have.''
 He said he would prefer that his boats compete against others -- provided that they, too, were built in Maine.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tim Hodgdon owns Hodgdon Yachts, which has 100 workers and is the biggest of nine companies in a new promotional alliance. (Photo by Herb Swanson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT BUILDING (91%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKETING PLAN (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); BUDGETS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MARKET SHARE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) Boats and Boating

ORGANIZATION: Hodgdon Yachts

PERSON: Katie Zezima; Tim Hodgdon

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Maine

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



655 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: The long-term consequences of the race riots in the late 1960's come into view.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness,'' just published in paperback by Perennial.

 BODY:
AS an economic historian, Robert A. Margo has long wanted to study the 1960's. But, he says, ''for the longest time people would say, 'That's too close to the present.''' 
 Not so anymore. The 1960's are as distant from today as the Great Depression was from the 1960's, and economic historians, including Professor Margo, of Vanderbilt University, are examining the decade's long-term effects. 
 Consider the wave of race riots that swept the nation's cities. From 1964 to 1971, there were more than 750 riots, killing 228 people and injuring 12,741 others. After more than 15,000 separate incidents of arson, many black urban neighborhoods were in ruins. 
 As soon as the riots occurred, social scientists began collecting data and analyzing the possible causes. Until recently, however, few scholars looked at the riots' long-term economic consequences. 
 In two recent papers, Professor Margo and his Vanderbilt colleague, William J. Collins, do just that by estimating the impact on incomes and employment and on property values. 
 The riots not only destroyed many homes and businesses, resulting in about $50 million in property damage in Detroit alone, but far more significantly, they also depressed inner-city incomes and property values for decades. 
 (The papers, ''The Labor Market Effects of the 1960's Riots'' and ''The Economic Aftermath of the 1960's Riots: Evidence from Property Values,'' are available at www.vanderbilt.edu/Econ/wparchive/working03.html and www.vanderbilt.edu/Econ/wparchive/working04.html.) 
 The economists start with sociologists' findings on the riots' causes: whether a city had a riot was essentially unpredictable, assuming the city was outside the South (where few riots occurred) and had a substantial African-American population. The sociologists' research, Professor Margo says, suggests that ''there was so much racial tension in the air in the 1960's that a riot could happen almost anywhere, anytime.'' 
 That unpredictability is bad news for sociologists looking for causes but good news for economists analyzing consequences. It creates a natural experiment, dividing otherwise similar places into those that had riots and those that did not.
 In cities with major riots, the economists find that the median black family income dropped by about 9 percent from 1960 to 1970, compared with similar cities without severe riots. This impact on the labor market may have actually been more severe in the long run. 
 From 1960 to 1980, male employment in cities with severe riots dropped four to seven percentage points, compared with otherwise similar cities.
 The impact on property values is even more striking. In cities with severe riots, Professors Collins and Margo found, the median value of black-owned homes dropped 14 percent to 20 percent, compared with cities that experienced little or no rioting, from 1960 to 1970. The median value of all central-city homes, regardless of owner, dropped 6 percent, to 10 percent. 
 The racial difference is not surprising, because both riot damage and the perceived risk of future riots were concentrated in predominately black neighborhoods. 
 Again, these numbers reflect not just immediate property damage but long-term declines. If it is more expensive or less desirable to live or work in a particular neighborhood, property prices will drop. 
 ''This effect,'' the economists write, ''could work through any number of the channels that feed into the net benefit stream: personal and property risk might seem higher; insurance premiums might rise; taxes for redistribution or more police and fire protection might increase, and municipal bonds may be more difficult to place; retail outlets might close; businesses and employment opportunities might relocate; friends and family might move away; burned-out buildings might be an eyesore; and so on.''
 In a second statistical test, Professors Collins and Margo identify two factors that separate cities with riots from those without riots: whether the local government used a city manager (which lessened the chances of a riot) and how much rain fell in April 1968, the month that Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated. 
 ''If you have a lot of rain, people don't go out in the streets and riot,'' Professor Margo notes. So the same national event had different effects in cities that were otherwise similar. Here, too, the two economists find that cities without riots did significantly better economically over the long run. 
 These results help address an important economic puzzle. Since World War II, the incomes of black and white Americans have begun to converge. But racial differences in wealth, or net worth, have remained enormous, even for people with similar incomes and family configurations. 
 In 1998, the median income for African-American households was $20,000, or 54 percent of the median white household income of $37,000, according to calculations by Edward N. Wolff of the Jerome Levy Economics Institute. But the median net worth of black families was only $10,000, a mere 12 percent of the median white net worth of $81,700. 
 Wealth reflects history as well as current economics. And while there are many reasons for the wealth gap, it certainly does not help that the 1960's riots destroyed much of the accumulated wealth of many of the most prosperous African-Americans, those who had left the South for the greater economic opportunity of industrial cities. 
 A home is the most important asset for most American families, and home ownership is even more significant for African-Americans, who historically have had held little wealth in financial securities or business equity. 
 In 1940, black-owned homes were worth only 37 percent as much as white-owned homes, as against 62 percent in 1970 -- still a significant gap, but a much smaller one. From then on, however, the gap barely budges, with the ratio reaching only 65 percent by 1990. 
 The riots help explain why. These numbers include all houses nationwide. In inner cities, the trend actually reversed, and the gap in home value began to widen instead of narrow. 
 From 1940 to 1970, the value of homes owned and occupied by blacks in central cities jumped to 69 percent of the value of urban homes owned and occupied by whites, from 51 percent. (Home values were rising over this period as well.) By 1990, however, the ratio was down to a mere 53 percent, nearly as low as in 1940. 
 ''That's a really startling number,'' Professor Margo says.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the Economic Scene column in Business Day on Thursday, about the long-term consequences of the 1960's race rioting, misstated the date of riots in Detroit. It was 1967, not 1968.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The structure of a store that burned in the 1968 Detroit riots was standing several decades later. A study says the riots depressed incomes and property values for years. (Photo by Michele V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (94%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); HOME PRICES (87%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); ARSON (54%) United States Economy; Income; Demonstrations and Riots; Blacks; Labor; Unemployment; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Robert A (Prof) Margo; William J (Prof) Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



656 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; SKI REPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Small Resorts Stay Alive, And Some Even Thrive

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD

 BODY:
Who knew 40 years ago that winter vacations would come to this: skis measured by waist size; single sliding boards with straps for both feet; chairlift seats as long as sofas; fake snow; spas instead of hot water bottles; apres ski at computer kiosks; and snowmobile rides instead of sleighs?
 Long gone are the pot-bellied stoves and warming huts of yesteryear. Or are they? Not if you look to Montana, a place that embraces both sides of a growing but increasingly diverse sport.
 Take Turner Mountain near Libby, Mont., a community with a 16 percent unemployment rate. The ski area there is thriving, not because of the money it makes each season, but because it is still there. 
 Michael Berry, president of the National Ski Areas Association, which represents 494 ski areas in the United States, said that small areas like Turner were beginning to do well again. In 1984, there were 727 ski areas in the United States. The small ones were the first to go under during 10 years of ski industry stagnation.
 The national association noted in a recent report that such areas are on the upswing now because of their ''lower prices, family friendliness and convenient locations.'' Some small areas that closed years ago, like Crotched Mountain, N.H., are reopening again, Berry said. ''A lot of young people are taking up the sport,'' he said. ''Places closer to towns are doing better than they have in years.''
 At Turner Mountain, a daily adult lift ticket costs $24. A more high-profile place like Aspen, Colo., charges $74 a day. 
 ''We're actually doing pretty good,'' said Bruce Zwang, president of Kootenai Winter Sports, the nonprofit group that manages Turner, which has a single chairlift, although it is a new one. ''Once we got our new chairlift running in 2002, our skier visits doubled. We only had a T-bar before, so it was a big day for us; we had 200 people.''
 Skier and snowboarder participation in general has been at a high over the past three years. The peak season, 2000-1, drew 57.3 million visits by skiers and boarders to United States resorts compared with about 52 million visits annually in the 1990's.
 Turner Mountain, a 400-acre nonprofit ski area in northwest Montana, relies on volunteers to run everything from its lifts to its snack bar. Skiers and board riders gather in the same 20-by-40-foot warming shed the hill has had for the past 43 years. Gas lights burn on propane, and heat comes from a barrel stove. Skiers use portable outdoor toilets instead of indoor rest rooms.
 Locals helped pay for Turner's new lift equipment two years ago by donating $500 for each of the lift's 128 chairs. For $1,000, a donor's name went on one of the 32 lift towers. A new lodge is now being built -- by volunteers.
 With 90 percent of its 30 trails marked with a black diamond for most difficult, Turner Mountain is not for everyone. But that may also be its intrinsic charm in a place where local demand is high. ''The thought of not having a ski hill here in Libby is more than anyone can bear,'' Zwang said. ''We have a lot of good skiers who come out of here.''
 That kind of history eludes Moonlight Basin, a new ski area in Montana that is the opposite of Turner. Opened for the first time last season, Moonlight Basin is also an upstart compared with its next-door neighbor, Big Sky Resort, the largest ski area in the state. Both areas have trails on Lone Mountain, an 11,000-foot peak in southwest Montana about an hour from Bozeman.
 Last season, Moonlight Basin became the first year-round destination ski resort built in the United States in two decades. It has 76 trails on 2,000 acres. Taking its cue from golf, where million-dollar homes are frequently part of the development of new courses, Moonlight Basin is rising amid a new housing enclave. It is the proof of the maxim: build it and they will come.
 Moonlight's developers -- Joe Vujovich and Lee Poole, ranchers from Ennis, Mont., and Keith Brown, a businessman from Fort Lauderdale, Fla. -- bought 25,000 acres of former Montana logging property in 1992. They have set aside more than half of that as a nature preserve.
 The housing development includes log cabins, condominiums and penthouse suites, all built to attract first- and second-home buyers with a yen to live in a wilderness that also has luxuries. This combination of green and gilt represents the leading edge of growth in skiing today.
 ''The first wave of baby boomers is retiring now,'' said Berry, the ski areas association executive. ''They're buying second homes, and they're looking at places besides Arizona and Florida. A lot of mountain towns that we think of as ski towns have a much broader appeal now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Moonlight Basin ski area, about an hour from Bozeman, Mont., is riding an upswing in the ski industry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); ATHLETES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); SNOWMOBILING (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SNOWBOARDING (78%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); PROPANE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%) Skiing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Barbara Lloyd

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Montana

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



657 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Turkey to Shift to a One-in-a-Million Currency

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Dec. 29 

 BODY:
Everyone here was a millionaire, but those days will soon be over. 
 Beginning Jan. 1, Turkey will eliminate the last six zeros on its currency, bringing an end to the days when Turks could drop a hundred million for a week's worth of groceries and spend a few billion to furnish a simple apartment.
 The million-lira bank note, the equivalent of about 74 cents, will become a one-lira note of the same value. The 20 million-lira night out at the movies, including popcorn, will instead cost 20 new Turkish liras, and so on. 
 Officials have talked about changing the bloated lira for a decade. But they held back in the face of a crippling financial crisis in 2001 and, until recently, stubbornly high inflation.
 ''What they're saying now is that it's not funny money any more,'' said Sevket Pamuk, a professor of economics at Bosporus University here. ''It's symbolically important.'' 
 Annual inflation at one time ran about 140 percent. Adding zeros to the bank notes was one reaction, although it made for mind-bending calculations for visitors converting currency.
 The economy has improved lately. This year's inflation was about 12 percent, according to the Central Bank. For 2005, the government has set its target inflation rate at 8 percent. Changing the currency is meant to send a message of confidence to the public, the financial markets and foreign investors.
 ''They are investing in their own credibility,'' said Murat Yulek, an economic consultant in Ankara. ''They are tying their own hands and saying, hey, we're committing ourselves to not running a loose monetary policy.'' 
 Outside of its psychological effect, the change should not have any effect on the overall Turkish economy or exchange rate, he said. 
 Over the last few years, even the poorest Turks could count themselves as billionaires. The minimum wage is about 400,000,000 liras a month, making the basic yearly salary for the lowest paid worker 4,800,000,000 liras. 
 But all those zeroes did not fool anyone. 
 ''It will be very good to use money that seems closer to what people use in Europe and America,'' said Gunay Kudaloglu, the manager of a fruit and vegetable stand in Istanbul. ''You know, one lira will be like one euro. It's more normal. This wasn't normal.'' 
 Both old and new liras will be in use for the first year, although economists expect the bulk of the old bank notes to be exchanged by the spring. 
 More than 13 quadrillion worth of lira -- that is 13 with 15 zeros -- are now in circulation, according to Ilkier Bayir, head of the issuing department at the Central Bank.
 The new notes have the same pictures of Ataturk, the first president of modern Turkey, on one side. Turkish landmarks and antiquities are on the other side. 
 Central Bank officials said they had received complaints about the Ataturk portraits for the new currency and about the choice of buildings and archaeological sites portrayed. But they said it would be impossible to please everyone.
 ''You put a mosque, they criticize,'' Sureyya Serdengecti, a bank official, said during a conference in early December. ''You put in the ruins of Ephesus or something from the ancient Greek or Roman empires, and they criticize that, too.''
 The government has not yet decided what it will do with the estimated 1,600 tons of old liras that will be exchanged for new ones. Most countries in similar situations have buried or burned their bank notes. The Central Bank has commissioned a research institute to come up with alternatives, which could include using the notes in road-paving materials. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%); ANKARA, TURKEY (73%) TURKEY (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



658 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: DIPLOMACY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: It's About Aid, And an Image

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Dec. 29 

 BODY:
As Asia suffers through a 9/11 of its own a natural calamity instead of a man-made one, but at least 25 times more deadly -- President Bush's response in coming weeks may well determine his success in repairing relations strained by three years of relentless American focus on terrorism.
 It took 72 hours after the tsunamis washed away countless villages and tens of thousands of lives before Mr. Bush appeared in public to declare that the United States had the rudiments of a plan for addressing ''loss and grief to the world that is beyond our comprehension.'' His aides said it took that long to understand the magnitude of the tragedy and to plan a recovery effort that must stretch from remote villages of Indonesia to the eastern coast of Africa. 
 But the aid effort that has now begun presents Mr. Bush with an opportunity to battle, with action rather than just words, the perception that took root in his first four years in office that he is all about America first. 
 ''It's a tragedy but it is also an opportunity to demonstrate that terrorism doesn't drive out everything else,'' said Morton Abramowitz, who served as American ambassador to Thailand a quarter century ago and went on to become one of the founders of the International Crisis Group, which helps prepare governments to respond to unexpected shocks. ''It's a chance for him to show what kind of country we are.''
 Mr. Bush and his aides have long argued that the administration's reputation around the world is undeserved. 
 Andrew S. Natsios, the administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, said on Wednesday that American funds for disaster relief alone were $2.4 billion last year, 40 percent of the worldwide contributions for this purpose. ''We are by far the largest donor,'' he said. ''No one even comes close to us.''
 That argument underlay the president's testy response when asked, at his ranch, about the comments of Jan Egeland, the United Nations relief coordinator, who charged on Monday that rich Western nations had been ''stingy'' in doling out foreign aid before the tsunami. 
 ''I felt like the person who made that statement was very misguided and ill informed,'' Mr. Bush replied, ticking off the magnitude of increases in American aid.
 But perceptions set in a first term have a way of becoming the political canvas of the second. And America's response to this tragedy, some administration officials acknowledged, is crucial in places like Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, where the earthquake and tsunami first hit and where Islamic fundamentalism, never a political force during the cold war, is seeking to make inroads.
 Any missteps by the United States in the country's politically volatile environment, noted a senior American official who is frequently in Southeast Asia, ''will be exploited by the Islamic extremists to bolster their own case.'' 
 In this case, early reports indicate that even in a holiday week, the bureaucracy swung into gear fairly quickly. 
 To some degree, the war of perceptions has to do with whether the Asian nations believe Mr. Bush focuses on the tsunami tragedy with the same kind of energy he put in to making sure that other nations signed on to his counterterrorism agenda after Sept. 11. Just weeks after those attacks, Mr. Bush traveled to Shanghai for the annual summit of Asian leaders and made clear he would judge allies on the basis of how well they joined the fight. Among the first visitors to the Oval Office after the attack was Megawati Sukarnoputri, then Indonesia's president. She pledged to join the hunt for Al Qaeda operatives on her territory, and largely made good on the promise. 
 On Wednesday morning Mr. Bush, operating from a trailer just across the road from his ranch that has been converted into a secure communications center, called the leaders of Sri Lanka, Thailand, Indonesia and India to pledge his support. 
 ''I assured those leaders this is only the beginning of our help,'' he said of the $35 million that the administration has pledged so far. 
 Mr. Bush's aides are aware that the depth of America's compassion will be compared to what other nations are spending, what Washington spends on lesser disasters at home, and what is now being spent in Iraq.
 Spain has publicly committed about $68 million. Australia has pledged $27 million. American officials say those comparisons can be misleading because the United States is providing airlift and other services in an aid coalition with Japan, India and Australia.
 Then there are the domestic comparisons. Congress has approved roughly $13 billion for aid related to the hurricanes that hit the country in the late summer. Most of that is going to Florida, where Mr. Bush loaded fresh water and dry goods into the trunks of cars. 
 Of course, that was home turf, and an election campaign was under way, and even Mr. Bush's critics do not expect spending on that scale for the far greater disaster in South Asia. 
 And there are already signs that Democrats want to link the response to this disaster to spending in Iraq. ''I just about went through the roof when I heard them bragging about $35 million,'' Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat and a persistent critic of how the American rebuilding operation has gone in Iraq. ''We spend $35 million before breakfast in Iraq.'' 
 Speaking by telephone from his home in Vermont, Mr. Leahy, who is the ranking Democrat on the foreign operations subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee, urged that a portion of the largely unspent $18 billion for Iraq reconstruction be re-directed for Asian relief efforts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); RELIGION (85%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); FUNDAMENTALISM (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves ; Foreign Aid; Terrorism; Islam; United States International Relations; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (93%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



659 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: In Ads, AARP Criticizes Plan On Privatizing

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29 

 BODY:
AARP, the influential lobby for older Americans, signaled Wednesday for the first time how fervently it would fight President Bush's proposal for private Social Security accounts, saying it would begin a $5 million two-week advertising campaign timed to coincide with the start of the new Congress.
 The organization, which played a huge role in the passage of Medicare drug legislation last year, said it was prepared to spend much more in the next two years to block the creation of private accounts financed with payroll tax revenues.
 ''This is our signature issue,'' said Christine M. Donohoo, chief communications officer for AARP, which represents 36 million Americans 50 and older. ''We will do what it takes.'' 
 The full-page advertisements, to appear next week in more than 50 newspapers around the country, say the accounts would cause ''Social Insecurity.'' 
 ''There are places in your retirement planning for risk,'' the advertisements say, ''but Social Security isn't one of them.''
 One advertisement shows a couple in their 40's looking at the reader. ''If we feel like gambling, we'll play the slots,'' the message says.
 Another advertisement shows traders in the pit of a commodities exchange. ''Winners and losers are stock market terms,'' it says. ''Do you really want them to become retirement terms?''
 AARP's confrontational stance on Social Security contrasts with its strategy on Medicare legislation in 2002 and 2003. 
 Senior officials of the group continually talked to the White House and to Republicans in Congress about proposals to add drug coverage to Medicare. But to date, AARP leaders said, they have had few conversations with the White House about Mr. Bush's plans for Social Security.
 Lawmakers of both parties said the Medicare bill might not have passed without a last-minute endorsement by AARP, which describes itself as a nonpartisan organization. The endorsement outraged some members of the group and some Democrats in Congress. But now, it appears, AARP will be working with Democrats against Republican proposals for private accounts.
 AARP strongly supports new incentives for people to save for retirement, but says such savings should supplement the existing system.
 Marie F. Smith, the group's president, and William D. Novelli, its chief executive, set forth the organization's position this month in letters to members and to lawmakers.
 Private accounts would worsen the problems of Social Security, they said, adding: ''Taking some of the money that workers pay into the system and diverting it into newly created private accounts would weaken Social Security and put benefits for future generations at risk. AARP is opposed to private accounts that take money out of Social Security.''
 Under President Bush's proposal, workers could divert some payroll taxes to personal accounts that could be invested in stocks and bonds.
 At a news conference last week, Mr. Bush defended his proposal as a way to encourage ''an ownership society,'' increase savings and provide ''capital for entrepreneurial growth.'' By investing in private accounts, he said, workers could earn a higher rate of return than they get from the Social Security trust fund, and they could pass on the accumulated assets to their heirs.
 Ms. Donohoo said AARP's advertisements were intended to ''mobilize seniors'' and to educate younger people about the program, which pays monthly benefits to more than 47 million Americans.
 The advertisements will generally run three times in each newspaper from Jan. 4, when Congress convenes, to Jan. 20, when Mr. Bush is to be inaugurated for a second term.
 Some advocates of private accounts, like the libertarian Cato Institute, are also gearing up. But Jamie W. Dettmer, a Cato spokesman, said: ''We do not have plans to do advertising or lobbying. Our experts will write op-ed articles, appear on television and radio and testify before Congress if they're invited.''
 At a White House economic conference this month, Mr. Bush previewed his message to Congress on Social Security. ''The crisis is now,'' he said. ''You may not feel it, your constituents may not be overwhelming you with letters demanding a fix now, but the crisis is now.''
 On the other hand, Ms. Donohoo of AARP said that ''rather modest changes'' could ensure the solvency of the program for several generations. ''It's not a crisis,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004



660 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Underestimates Future Life Spans, Critics Say

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30 

 BODY:
When the federal government assesses the long-term financial problems of Social Security, it assumes that increases in life expectancy will be slow and measured. But many population experts say they believe that Americans' life expectancy will increase rapidly in the 21st century, making the program's financial problems even worse.
 President Bush and Congress are preparing for a debate over the future of Social Security, whose solvency depends not only on factors including productivity, inflation and birth rates but also on how long beneficiaries will be living.
 Life expectancy at birth increased by 30 years in the last century, and many independent demographers, citing the promise of biomedical research and the experience of some other industrialized countries, predict significant increases in this century. The Social Security Administration foresees a much slower rise. 
 ''Life expectancy will make a very big difference in the fiscal viability of Social Security, but the agency's projections of longevity appear too conservative,'' said Prof. Samuel H. Preston of the University of Pennsylvania, one of the nation's leading demographers.
 Dr. Preston said the agency assumed that ''past advances in life expectancy are unrepeatable, even though the medical research establishment is routinely producing important breakthroughs that reduce the incidence or fatality of a variety of diseases.''
 Richard M. Suzman, associate director of the National Institute on Aging, a unit of the National Institutes of Health, said: ''There is a long history of government actuaries and statisticians underestimating future gains in life expectancy. The United States is unfortunately well below the outer limits of life expectancy. Other countries are doing much better. That gives us an indication of the potential room for improvement.''
 Tables published by the government's National Center for Health Statistics show that life expectancy at birth was 47.3 years in 1900, rose to 68.2 by 1950 and reached 77.3 in 2002. The latest annual report of the Social Security trustees projects that life expectancy will increase just six years in the next seven decades, to 83 in 2075. A separate set of projections, by the Census Bureau, shows more rapid growth.
 Social Security says male life expectancy at birth will be 81.2 years in 2075. The Census Bureau, using different methods and assumptions, says that level will be reached much earlier, in 2050.
 Likewise, Social Security says female life expectancy will reach 85 years by 2075, while the Census Bureau says it will exceed 86 in 2050. 
 For the American population as a whole in the last century, most of the gains in life expectancy at birth occurred from 1900 to 1950. But most of the gains in life expectancy among people who had already reached age 65 were seen after 1950.
 Last year an expert panel advising the Social Security Administration found ''an unprecedented reduction in certain forms of old-age mortality, especially cardiovascular disease, beginning in the late 1960's.'' 
 The panel said Social Security was wrong to assume a slower decline in mortality rates among the elderly in the next 75 years. Rather, it said, the government should assume that mortality will continue to decline as it did from 1950 to 2000.
 Ronald D. Lee, a professor of demography and economics at the University of California, Berkeley, said: ''I foresee death rates of the elderly in the United States continuing to decline at the same pace they have declined since 1950. In fact, there is evidence that the pace of decline in other developed countries has accelerated in recent decades.''
 The Social Security Administration defends its assumptions.
 ''There is a wide range of opinion among experts on this issue,'' said Mark Hinkle, a spokesman for the agency. ''In the last few years, we've moved a bit closer to the position of other agencies and demographers.''
 Some experts say other factors could ease the effects of longer life on Social Security's solvency.
 ''The higher costs associated with longer life expectancy could be offset in several ways that do not involve a reduction of Social Security benefits,'' said John R. Wilmoth, another demographer at Berkeley.
 People who live longer could work longer, for instance. Or the size of the working-age population could increase because of higher birth rates or a larger number of immigrants.
 Further, some population experts foresee developments that could wind up buttressing the forecasts of the Social Security Administration. S. Jay Olshansky, a professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said the era of large increases in life expectancy might be nearing an end, with the spread of obesity and the possible re-emergence of deadly infectious diseases. 
 ''There are no lifestyle changes, surgical procedures, vitamins, antioxidants, hormones or techniques of genetic engineering available today with the capacity to repeat the gains in life expectancy that were achieved in the 20th century'' with antibiotics, vaccinations and improvements in sanitation, Dr. Olshansky said.
 Indeed, he said, without new measures on obesity and communicable diseases, ''human life expectancy could decline in the 21st century.''
 On the other hand, said James W. Vaupel, director of the program on population, policy and aging at Duke University, life expectancy in the United States is far from any natural or biological limits.
 ''Experts have repeatedly asserted that life expectancy is approaching a ceiling,'' Dr. Vaupel said. ''These experts have repeatedly been proved wrong.''
 At various times, different countries have had the highest reported at-birth life expectancy. But with ''remarkable regularity'' over the last 160 years, Dr. Vaupel said, life expectancy in the leading country has increased an average of three months a year, or 2.5 years a decade.
 David A. Wise, a Harvard professor who is director of the program on aging at the private, nonpartisan National Bureau of Economic Research, said: ''Almost all demographers outside the government think that death rates will continue to fall faster than the decline incorporated in the projections of the Social Security Administration. Most think life expectancy will increase more rapidly than Social Security says. That's not good for the finances of Social Security.''
 Nor do economists generally foresee a reversal of the trend toward early retirement. Though researchers have observed a significant decline in chronic disability among the elderly, most workers retire and begin drawing Social Security benefits before they reach 65.
 Labor unions and some politicians have resisted efforts to raise the eligibility age for full benefits. Such proposals, they say, penalize workers who have spent their lives in physically demanding jobs.
 Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College, said, ''Increases in life expectancy at 65 have been a major contributor to the rising cost of Social Security.'' Future increases could strain pension plans and individual retirement savings, as well as Social Security, she said.
 ''The United States is the richest major country in the world in terms of per capita gross domestic product,'' Dr. Munnell said. ''And life expectancy is clearly associated with income.''
 She added, though, that ''if you focus on life expectancy at age 65, the U.S. falls in the middle of the pack.''
 One reason, she said, is that ''the United States is not so rich relative to its peers if you look at the average income going to the lowest 40 percent of the population.'' 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Disagreement On Life Expectancy''The Social Security Administration has projected shorter life expectancies than other agencies and some experts, implying a longer period of solvency for Social Security.Life expectancy at birth, actual (through 2002) and projectedGraph tracks life expectancy for men and women since 1960 through 2002 and projected up to 2100.(Sources by National Center for Health Statistics
Social Security Administration
 Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CENSUS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); ANNUAL REPORTS (75%); ELDER HEALTH (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); BIOMEDICINE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (65%) Social Security (US); Population; Aged; Longevity; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (54%)

PERSON: Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



661 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: There Is No Last Time for Americans in Paris

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

'We'll Always Have Paris'
'American Tourists in France Since 1930'
By Harvey Levenstein
Illustrated. 382 pages. University of Chicago Press. $35.
 April in Paris did not look so good in the early 1930's, either to American tourists or their French hosts. The Wall Street crash and a poor rate of exchange had sent most of the fun-loving Americans back home, and tourists who did travel to France spent less. They ''refused absolutely to be lavish,'' a French reporter put it. Before long, even the penny-pinchers were thin on the ground. One American, looking across the Place Vendome, a spot once teeming with his fellow countrymen, remarked ruefully, ''I never realized the population of Paris was French!'' 
 In ''Seductive Journey,'' Harvey Levenstein, an emeritus professor of history at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, chronicled the American love affair with France from the days of Thomas Jefferson to the 1920's. Now he picks up the story just as Sara and Gerald Murphy, who epitomized the exuberant, high-living, Francophilic American tourists of the 1920's, reluctantly board the ship at Cherbourg and sail back to New York for good. 
 Things got worse before they got better. After the 1930's came the Nazi occupation and the threadbare 1940's. The city rebounded in the 1950's and 60's, the era of Sartre and the cinematic New Wave, but since then it has lost some of its allure in the era of inexpensive worldwide travel, a time when Paris no longer stands unrivalled as the world capital of culture or even gastronomy. It's no longer a finishing school for the upper class or a bohemian paradise for writers and artists. And yet, weak dollar or strong dollar, France, and Paris especially, still manage to work the old magic. 
 American tourism to France has always been like a rocky marriage that never quite ends in divorce because, deep down, one party is still madly in love (that's us) and the other needs the money (that's them). From the 1930's well into the 1960's, Americans would return home and swear never again, enraged by price-gouging, rude waiters and rapacious cab drivers, frustrated by the French habit of speaking French and appalled by the hygiene. The French government, periodically alarmed, would issue stern warnings to hoteliers and print leaflets suggesting to Parisians that they learn how to smile. (The American government, for its part, once advised tourists not to use the terms ''Frenchies'' or ''natives'' when referring to the local population.) All this amounted to theater. The French remained aloof and formal. The Americans steadfastly refused to learn French. In poll after poll, decade after decade, Americans said they found the French rude, unwelcoming and greedy. Then they placed France at the top of the list of countries they would most like to visit. 
 Mr. Levenstein records the ups and downs of American tourism in France dryly and mechanically. The book is a competent cut-and-paste job, with snippets from magazine and newspaper articles assembled and interspersed with economic and tourist-industry data. As the chapters march through the decades, Mr. Levenstein sets the stage with a few cultural or political generalities, and then gets down to the business of stringing quotations together, often making the same point a half-dozen times. Admittedly, with the end of the 1920's, a lot of the fizz goes out of the Champagne. But Mr. Levenstein makes the trip from 1930 to the present feel like a 15-city bus tour.
 Still, it has its points. Mr. Levenstein is persuasive in explaining the powerful cultural attractions and antipathies that ruled the French-American relationship. American tourists, he argues, really traveled to two different Frances. Some went to visit the Louvre. Theirs was the France of art, fashion and sophistication. Others panted to take the ''Paris by Night'' bus tours and get a look at the Folies-Bergere, described by Fodor's as ''a dazzling Niagara of eroticism.'' Civilized France and pleasure-oriented France each commanded its own American audience. And there was another category, too: black Americans, who found in France an acceptance denied them at home. ''No more bars to beat against,'' wrote the Paris correspondent for several black American newspapers in the 1930's. ''In their place is a sense of freedom that is almost alarming.'' 
 Each side had its complaints. Americans, who viewed French plumbing with despair, never did solve the mysteries of the bidet. They grumbled, quite rightly, about shops and restaurants that charged two sets of prices, one for the Americans and the other for the French, and hotels that piled on mysterious taxes and service charges. The French, or at least the elite who expressed opinions in print, regarded America as a soulless assembly-line society fixated on the accumulation of wealth. ''Out with the Yankees!'' one writer fulminated. ''Out with the people and their products, their methods and their lessons, their dances and their jazz! Let them take back their Fords and their chewing gum!'' 
 But not their dollars. One of the more entertaining conflicts documented by Mr. Levenstein is the ongoing, doomed struggle of the French government to change the behavior of its own people. The National Campaign of Welcome and Friendliness, a mid-1960's initiative, was but one of many. Americans might have found it consoling to learn that French tourists from the provinces also lived in fear of the snarling Parisian waiter. In a 1970 survey they criticized the welcome afforded by Paris much more harshly than American respondents did. 
 In the dark days after the stock market crash, the French government wondered if it would ever again see a year like 1929, when 300,000 Americans came to visit. It underestimated the eternal allure of Paris. With the advent of cheap flights and package tours, Americans eventually began arriving in the millions. Mr. Levenstein categorizes the current crop as postmodern tourists, their myriad tastes catered to by niche marketers who offer everything from gay biking in Burgundy to a ''Diana Death Tour'' that retraces the route taken by Princess Diana on the night she died. And, as Mr. Levenstein's title suggests, there's always Paris, its appeal neatly summed up by none other than P. Diddy in the book's final lines: ''These people have the food, the clothes, the love. The city is just mad beautiful.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, part of a book review in Weekend yesterday about ''We'll Always Have Paris: American Tourists in France Since 1930,'' by Harvey Levenstein, was omitted. That passage should have followed the sentence beginning ''The book is a competent cut-and-paste job'' and should have read:
 ''As the chapters march through the decades, Mr. Levenstein sets the stage with a few cultural or political generalities, and then gets down to the business of stringing quotations together, often making the same point a half-dozen times. Admittedly, with the end of the 1920's, a lot of the fizz goes out of the Champagne. But Mr. Levenstein makes the trip from 1930 to the present feel like a 15-city bus tour.
 ''Still, it has its points. Mr. Levenstein is persuasive in explaining the powerful cultural attractions and antipathies that ruled the French-American relationship. American tourists, he argues, really traveled to two different Frances. Some went to visit the Louvre.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: This 1930's picture is used for the cover of ''We'll Always Have Paris.'' (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WRITERS (75%); HISTORY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); LITERATURE (68%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: William Grimes; Harvey Levenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



662 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: Wherever They Go, There They Are: Itinerant Artists Seize on Locale

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
The art world at the turn of the 21st century has been distinguished by globe-trotting professionals of every ilk: curators, critics and collectors who regularly take to the road to attend art fairs, biennials and auctions. But the most important players are the increasingly peripatetic artists. They show up almost empty-handed in Venice, Chicago or Beacon, N.Y., and conjure bits of site-specific fabulousness, using whatever they find in front of them, socially, architecturally, historically and artistically.
 In the extreme, these itinerants could be called ''stone soup'' artists, after the memorable children's story about a soldier who wanders into a village during a famine and deftly hoodwinks the villagers into sharing the food they are hoarding by claiming he can make soup from stones and water. Once it is boiling, the soldier takes a sip and pronounces it delicious, although a few carrots would make it even better. After a villager volunteers some previously undisclosed carrots, the sipping, pronouncements and volunteering continue, through onions, turnips, cabbage, potatoes, meat and so on. Gradually a nourishing stone soup takes shape; everyone is saved from starving and gains an enhanced sense of the community and its resources. 
 At the moment, shows in four Boston-area museums of the work of three out-of-town artists form an inadvertent meditation on the stone-soup approach and its ability to coax out forgotten aspects of a given locale, while illuminating this phenomenon's strengths and pitfalls and the kinds of artists who are and are not attracted by its possibilities.
 The purest example comes from Pierre Huyghe, an innovative French artist who works in a Conceptual-Situationist vein. Under the auspices of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in Cambridge, he has orchestrated a deeply site-specific yet oddly unanchored work at and about the Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts, next-door to the Fogg, which is the only structure in North America designed by Le Corbusier.
 A middle ground is taken in the work of the London-based Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans, seen in a two-part exhibition at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and the List Center for the Visual Arts at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. These shows combine work by the artist and his father, a gifted amateur photographer, with objects from the Museum of Fine Arts and M.I.T. collections.
 But at the Institute of Contemporary Art, an eye-opening retrospective of the work of Boris Mikhailov, a Ukrainian photographer, adamantly refutes the stone-soup strategy. Mr. Mikhailov has done almost all of his work on native ground, in Kharkov, Ukraine, where he was born and still lives part of the time.
 Mr. Huyghe's work, a clean application of the stone-soup concept, began with an invitation from Linda Norden, the Fogg's associate curator of contemporary art, and Scott Rothkopf, a Harvard graduate student who is also a senior editor at Artforum magazine, to create a work at the museum. It germinated in a process that involved contributions from many quarters and culminated in ''Huyghe + Corbusier: Harvard Project,'' a brilliant piece of gossamer that seems to have been created out of thin air. Disappointingly, it also tends to vanish back into it, leaving behind a lovely if obscure video starring a cast of astounding-looking puppets. 
 At Cambridge Mr. Huyghe was drawn to the Carpenter Center -- partly because its creator, Corbusier, spent most of his working life in France -- began to sift and decided to create a puppet musical that intertwined the genesis of the center with his own Harvard experience.
 A Hoboken, N.J., puppet-making consortium called Puppet Heap, located by Ms. Norden, made the cast of seven puppets, portraying the artist, the curators and Corbusier; Jose Lluis Sert, the Harvard dean who commissioned the center; Eduard F. Sekler, its first director; and a sinister black insectlike villain who symbolizes Harvard, which blocked several aspects of Corbusier's original design. The video, shot by a professional crew using professional puppeteers, has a wonderful fairy-tale quality. In addition to the puppets, there are flying building sketches, a sheltering tree and a puppetlike model of the Carpenter Center that rises and falls as its design is revised. One thing that never came to fruition was a terrace planted with seeds dropped by passing birds -- a ready-made metaphor for Mr. Huyghe's own working method that, not surprisingly, receives special emphasis in his narrative. A small ingenious quasi-geodesic theater designed by Michael Meredith, a young architect who is a friend of Mr. Rothkopf, suggests that the live puppet show staged at the exhibition's opening had a similarly magical feeling.
 Though beautiful, the puppet video isn't fully engaging on its own. Once you have read through the program notes, it becomes interesting as a Conceptual Art fable about the often thorny relationships between members of the creative class and the powerful institutions that support them. Ever so gently nipping the hand that makes his stone-soup artwork possible, Mr. Huyghe's piece uncovers the institutional vanity that is attracted to creativity but misunderstands it. He cleverly leaves us wondering whether the weaknesses of his piece result from the compromises to such collaborations, or from his peripatetic approach to art making.
 Unlike Mr. Huyghe, Mr. Wyn Evans did not arrive in Boston empty-handed, but he nonetheless put some local objects to good use. Mr. Wyn Evans made films and music videos before turning to art; his mediums include light, language and sound as well as sculpture, photography and film both fabricated and appropriated. His works have an ethereal beauty and poetic open-endedness; his subjects are ephemeralness, miscommunication and the unstable nature of perception in art, science and everyday life.
 Both of his exhibitions feature gorgeous chandeliers, commissioned by the artist in a range of period styles, whose lights blink in Morse code selected texts that also appear on small wall-mounted screens. And both shows begin with an example of his best-known work: a large concave mirrored disc, ''Perverse, Inverse, Reverse,'' which creates a distorted and inverted wide-angle view of the space (and people) around them. At M.I.T. the mirror further distorts the already idiosyncratic forms of three Chinese scholar's rocks, selected from the Musum of Fine Arts' collection. Their forms echo in the photographs taken by Mr. Wyn Evans's father. They include images of gnarled tree trunks, whose forms easily read as woozy, fun-house mirror images of human and animal faces. 
 Other elements in these drifting, dreamlike presentations include homages to earlier forms of communication. At the museum, there's a fragment of a telephone cable from the M.I.T. museum that might have transmitted the voice of Mr. Wyn Evans's hero, Marcel Duchamp. The M.I.T. display includes another relic: the 1960's wood-paneled D.J. room that was once part of the university's groundbreaking radio station, known for its early broadcasts of reggae, disco and punk.
 You could say that the photographer Boris Mikhailov, whose career is laid out in astounding fullness in his retrospective at the Institute of Contemporary Art, doesn't know from stone soup. His art springs from the Ukrainian soil like some continuously unfolding Russian novel, presenting its culture, history and people through the eyes of a participant who is, at times, also an outsider.
 Over the last decade, Mr. Mikhailov, born in 1938, has become known in the West primarily for his ''Case Studies'' photographs: large and sympathetic yet unsettlingly invasive color photographs of the many citizens of Kharkov rendered homeless by the economic chaos after the collapse of the Soviet Union. The subjects, often ill or drunk and sometimes naked, are victims of a specific history, yet their images also fit, perhaps a little too easily, into a Northern European tradition of the grotesque that includes early Dutch genre painting and the work of Brueghel and Bosch.
 These photographs are just a drop in the bucket of the exhibition, which originated at the Fotomusuem in Winterthur, Switzerland. The work nominates Mr. Mikhailov, who participated in the Sots Art underground, as the most substantial postwar artist to emerge from the former Soviet Union. He might almost have been born with a camera in his hands, although he is said to have taken up photography in earnest after losing his job as an engineer when the authorities discovered that he had taken photographs of his wife in the nude.
 The show includes nearly two dozen photographic series, dating to the late 1960's, that pursue various, often wildly improvised approaches in just about every conceivable genre: street photography (surreptitious and not) and portraiture; different forms of photo-based Conceptual and Performance art; and set-up photography, as well as found photography. In addition, Mr. Mikhailov seems to leave no physical stone unturned in the taking, printing or presentation of his work, resulting in a fierce sense of physical involvement. Combine all this with the fact that much of the work is bawdily body-oriented, and the total effect is, to use a cliche that has a rare appropriateness, Rabelasian. 
 Mr. Mikhailov's persistence and inventiveness as an artist is revelatory. Throughout his career, he seems to have figured out how to make his art regardless of the social or physical conditions, yet always in response to them. At the same time, he has revealed layer upon layer of the political, personal, tragic, comic, humdrum, violent, tender and in all ways irrepressible vitality -- both of humanity and of his own art.

''Huyghe + Corbusier: Harvard Project'' is at the Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts, 24 Quincy Street, Cambridge, Mass., (617)495-3251, through April 17. ''Cerith Wyn Evans: Thoughts Unsaid, Now Forgotten '' is at the M.I.T. List Visual Arts Center, Wiesner Building E15, 20 Ames Street, Cambridge, Mass., (617) 253-4680, through today. ''Cerith Wyn Evans'' is at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 465 Huntington Avenue, (617)267-9300, through Jan. 30. ''Boris Mikhailov: A Retrospective'' is at the Institute of Contemporary Art, 955 Boylston Street, Boston, (617)266-5152, through Sunday (Jan. 2).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Working in a Conceptual-Situationist vein, Pierre Huyghe turned to puppeteers, video makers and an architect to help create his puppet musical. (Photo by Michael Vahrenwald/Harvard University Art Museums)
 A work from Boris Mikhailov's series ''Superimpositions, U.S.S.R.'' (Photo by Boris Mikhailov, from the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); FAMINE (74%) Art; Reviews; Puppets ; Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts (Harvard University); Photography; Art

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%) Harvard University; Institute of Contemporary Art (Boston, Mass); Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: Roberta Smith; Pierre Huyghe; Cerith Wyn Evans; Boris Mikhailov

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UKRAINE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



663 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Business as Usual: Yankees Get Johnson

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Let's just suppose the Yankees don't win the World Series next October. What would George Steinbrenner do then? Would there be any superstars left for him to add to his roster, which is already loaded with them? 
 After trying for nearly half a year, the Yankees finally secured the services of Randy Johnson yesterday, and they are very likely an offer away from making Carlos Beltran his teammate. 
 The payroll is bulging; it threatens to rival the cost of the proposed West Side stadium for the Jets and the 2012 Olympics. 
 This is what happens when the Yankees don't win the World Series for four consecutive years. Losing breeds big eyes and bigger paychecks for other players. Steinbrenner's soldiers are ordered to find superstars who will enhance the team's chances of getting to and winning the World Series. Damn the dollars, full speed ahead.
 ''The Yankees are in a financial league of their own despite people occasionally trying to lump us with them,'' Larry Lucchino, the Boston Red Sox' chief executive, said yesterday. ''They are in a financial league of their own in the largest sports market in the world.''
 About two years ago, after the Yankees beat the Red Sox to Jose Contreras, Lucchino called the Yankees the Evil Empire, a name that will live in sports infamy. He offered no such pearls yesterday. Let the Yankees do what they have to do, he basically said in a telephone conversation, we have our own business to take care of.
 Lucchino's restraint will please Commissioner Bud Selig. He won't have to step between verbal combatants, as he has had to in the past, or figuratively take them to the woodshed and paddle their bottoms.
 Selig, in fact, won't have to do anything but approve the $9 million or so the Yankees will send the Arizona Diamondbacks over the next few years to offset the $34.5 million in salary left on Javier Vazquez's contract. Selig will approve the payment, but he will do it with a big sigh.
 The Yankees just keep loading up, and Selig can do nothing about it as long as Steinbrenner plays within the rules and spends his money and not someone else's. 
 The Yankees will take on Johnson's $16 million salary and give him a two-year extension for $32 million, meaning the trade will cost them a net of $22.5 million.
 In spending his money, Steinbrenner willingly brings baseball's competitive balance, or luxury tax, on himself. Other teams do what they have to do to avoid the tax, even a few thousand dollars in tax.
 In the two years the tax system has been in effect, the Yankees have paid $36.8 million, everyone else (two teams this year) $4.1 million. That means the Yankees have paid 90 percent of the levy that the commissioner's tax man has collected.
 Next year, the Yankees will pay even higher taxes. Because they will be over the threshold -- next year it will be $128 million -- for the third time under the current labor agreement, the Yankees will pay at a 40 percent rate.
 If they sign Beltran, which they are expected to do, the Yankees will have a payroll for luxury-tax purposes of at least $222 million, including nearly $8 million in benefits. That would result in a tax approaching $40 million, more than they have paid the first two years combined.
 The Yankees have long been No. 1 or close to No. 1 in payroll, but only in the last two years have they distanced themselves from the rest of the financial field. 
 In 2000, the Yankees' payroll was 7 percent higher than the next highest payroll. For the 2001 season, after they had won the World Series three straight years and four of the previous five years, the Yankees were second in payroll, about $1 million behind the Los Angeles Dodgers. The next year, the Yankees' payroll was 19 percent higher than the runner-up Red Sox' payroll.
 At that point, the Yankees had not won the World Series for two years, and Steinbrenner obviously decided drastic steps were necessary. In 2003, their payroll was 50 percent higher than the Dodgers' payroll, which was the second highest, and this year the Yankees paid their players 44 percent more than the Red Sox, who were No. 2, paid theirs.
 The Red Sox may have been second, but as Lucchino suggested, they were playing in a different economic league than the Yankees.
 The Yankees' willingness to spend money on winning players should surprise no one. Steinbrenner signaled these last few years of obscene spending 30 years ago tonight. That was when the Yankees, with their owner suspended, signed Jim Hunter, aka Catfish, as baseball's first true modern free agent.
 He may have messed up New Year's Eve for a lot of people then, but Steinbrenner was intent on fielding a winning team. Hunter was instrumental in instilling a will to win in those Yankees, and the 41-year-old Johnson, barring a sudden affliction of old age, should help put the Yankees in position to win the next season or two or three.
 That doesn't necessarily mean World Series championships. Those are harder to come by, more elusive, than division championships. But you can be sure Steinbrenner will have his eye on the next player or two he will covet if the 2005 gang of multimillionaires falls short of the only outcome the owner accepts.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Randy Johnson after a perfect game against Atlanta in May. He finished the season with 290 strikeouts. (Photo by Tami Chappell/Reuters)
 Randy Johnson won three games for the Diamondbacks against the Yankees, soon to be his new team, in the 2001 World Series. (Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (76%); APPROVALS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SPORTS BUSINESS (74%); OLYMPICS (70%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); EXCISE TAX (69%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (55%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Baseball; Trades (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (82%) New York Yankees; Arizona Diamondbacks

PERSON: Murray Chass; Randy Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



664 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2265 words

HEADLINE: As Murders Fall, New Tactics Are Tried Against Remainder

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN

 BODY:
Murders in New York City have dropped, again. So low has the number dipped -- to 566 so far this year from a high of 2,245 in 1990 -- that even Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has begun to gently lower the public's expectations, warning of a core number of homicides resistant to even New York's gargantuan police force.
 Low crime rates are more often the stuff of proud news conferences than of intense scrutiny. Yet as street-corner slayings and drug turf drive-bys have melted away, police officials are collecting more data than ever on the remaining few hundred murders, tracking motives, locations, and even the national origin of victims and killers. 
 A huge endeavor, the new database provides insight into the question of how much lower, in a city of eight million people, the body count can go. It also offers a picture of how the nature of murder in New York City -- a post-crack, post-crackdown New York City -- has changed, and how anti-violence strategies must change with it. 
 Some things have not changed: disputes are the most common type of homicide, followed by drug-related slayings. But based on a review of data drawn from multiple agencies, including the Police Department, the Health Department, the Administration for Children's Services and the State Department of Criminal Justice, much has shifted since 1991. 
 While guns still top the list of murder weapons, there are proportionally fewer gun deaths and far fewer drug-related ones. Street murders are down. Innocent bystanders, once the subject of so many screaming headlines, no longer need Kevlar.
 But the most stubborn types of homicide -- child abuse, intimate-partner killings and other violence in the home -- have increased as a percentage of the total. Gang crimes have given way to rivalries between housing projects. Cocaine and crack dealers have retreated, but violence related to the marijuana trade has persisted and, some experts say, risen, because the market has grown and penalties are lax.
 New Yorkers are far less likely to be killed by a stranger or casual acquaintance now than 15 years ago. If you are a foreign-born man, you are also less likely to be a victim, but the percentage of female victims who are foreign-born has gone up markedly. The proportion of victims who are black has increased, with a corresponding decrease in the proportion of Hispanics, while the racial breakdown of perpetrators has stayed roughly the same. Killers are slightly older, with the number of teenage suspects falling and the number aged 30 to 34 rising.
 The real challenge is the fewer the deaths, the harder it is to reduce those that remain. New York's homicide rate, 6.9 for every 100,000 people, is already less than that of many far smaller American cities. But some criminologists point to foreign cities like London, with a rate of 2.4, or Amsterdam, at 4.0, as evidence that sizable reductions are possible.
 ''How low can it go?'' said Mr. Kelly, who initiated the database project. ''Who knows? Certainly it's our goal, our public policy position, to do everything we can to continue to suppress it. And we're getting more information agencywide that is going to help us do that.''
 Experts have long debated the causes of New York's startling reduction in crime. While some have argued that socioeconomic forces and shifting demographics -- immigrants, for example, are on average less likely to commit crimes -- have done most of the work, the police fiercely defend the role of law enforcement strategies like a greater street presence in trouble spots and a focused effort on taking guns off the streets.
 But now that the steepest drops in the body count are past, experts agree on one thing: Saving lives now depends on small-bore interventions and ever-greater attention to detail, whether that means handing out tougher sentences for gun possession, meeting with the Mexican consul general to learn more about inroads by gangs who speak the indigenous Mexican language Mixtec, finding jobs for parolees or giving domestic violence victims pendants that let them immediately summon the police.
 ''It's sort of saying, where are the gaps here?'' said John Feinblatt, the criminal justice coordinator for the Bloomberg administration. ''Where are things falling through the cracks? Is there something where we're not effectively pulling the thread through from arrest to sentencing? You have to come up with increasingly tailored solutions.''

Stubborn Category: Disputes
 Luciano Yevenes was a friendly, lonely drunk whose only public transgressions were banging on his neighbors' doors in search of company and sometimes passing out in the hall. He had never been in trouble with the police. He had a dog, Ninos, who enjoyed his own bedroom, with a child's bed. He had a closet stocked with cleaning products in two scents, raspberry and floral. On his door was a picture of Jesus. On his wall was a 2003 calendar from ABC, a friendly neighborhood liquor store.
 On Monday afternoon, Mr. Yevenes became No. 563. He was stabbed to death on his kitchen floor, his torso perforated, his throat slit from ear to ear. His hand was thrown over his face as if to ward off further blows.
 The mystery in this case is not so much who did it, but why. That day Mr. Yevenes, who sometimes worked as a painter, and his neighbor, Anthony Stanback, 30, were enjoying a couple of midday Colt 45's. Mr. Stanback, who has been arrested on charges that he killed Mr. Yevenes, told detectives that he could not remember what set off his violent rage, the police say. When he finally returned to his family's apartment on Tuesday, he took a kitchen knife and began slicing his own legs. ''He just snapped,'' said Lt. Bernardo Colon, the commander of the 77th Precinct detective squad.
 It was the kind of killing that flummoxes the police. It was not hoodlum versus hoodlum. It was not a jealous boyfriend. The small bag of marijuana found on Mr. Yevenes's counter did not make it a drug case. So it goes into the largest category: dispute.
 Disputes that end in death can be set off by anything from road rage to a funny look on the dance floor. By Dec. 23, there were 151 homicides in the dispute category, 28 percent of this year's total.
 Another 24 percent were considered drug-related, followed by domestic (12 percent), robberies (11), revenge (7), gang-related (6), and on down.
 Domestic murders, by the Police Department's definition, include any death that occurs among relatives in the home or between people who have a child in common. 
 Another category, women killed by current or former intimate partners, is tracked by Dr. Susan Wilt, the assistant commissioner for health promotion and disease prevention at the Health Department. In 1995, the first year such victims were counted, there were 53 -- 4.5 percent of the total homicides. In 2000, they reached a low of 23, but now the number is on the rise. In 2003, 34 women were killed by boyfriends, husbands, or other romantic partners. In 2004 there were 41 or 8.5 percent of the total.
 For Garry F. McCarthy, the deputy commissioner of operations, who is instrumental in plotting the department's crime-fighting strategy and whose office maintains the new database, domestic homicides are a thorny problem, because there is no clear predictor for which strife-filled relationships will turn fatal. Of the 41 intimate-partner homicides of women this year, 28 of the couples had no previous contact with the police. At least one woman had an order of protection, but let her boyfriend violate it. 
 As the Police Department strives for more and more specific information, the ''dispute'' designation has become less and less useful. ''I'm thinking of getting rid of that category,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''By definition, all homicides are disputes.'' 
 Others have tackled the same problem. A 1999 study of Brooklyn homicides commissioned by Charles J. Hynes, the borough's district attorney, tried to break disputes into smaller categories: conflicts over property ownership, disputes arising out of illegal business activities, drug or alcohol-fueled disputes, disputes over personal relationships, and disputes that escalate from trivial matters.
 The largest category, they found, were long-running feuds, like the one that apparently lay behind the death of Lisa Taylor, 35, early this week. She was shot at the front door of her house in Queens, the police said, by a relative of the 9-year-old boy with whom her 7-year-old daughter had been fighting. Such ongoing fights, the Brooklyn study found, accounted for more than 20 percent of dispute-related killings.
 That figure would not surprise detectives, who often say that today's victim is tomorrow's perpetrator. Tracking the cycle of insult and revenge is one objective of the new database, which includes shootings as well as homicides, recording as much information as possible about each incident: primary and secondary motives, aliases, criminal records, even whether the location was ever used as a drug market or gambling den.
 The specifics are important: national origin, for example, could reveal something about feuds or family and gang ties. It is more useful to know, Commissioner McCarthy said, that some people involved in a crime are Salvadoran or Dominican than that they are simply Hispanic.

Life, Death and Geography
 All crime, like all politics, is local, and to some extent geography is destiny. Luciano Yevenes died in the 77th Precinct, in Crown Heights, in Brooklyn, which has the highest number of homicides of any borough. When his mother appeared, the neighbors told her what had happened, and she fainted on the sidewalk.
 The 77th Precinct is one of the hot ones; although the number of homicides there has dropped 82 percent since 2003, it is still in the 10 most dangerous precincts. The 75th Precinct, East New York, is consistently No.1. Yet others have dropped completely out of sight: the 30th Precinct in Harlem went from 8th in 1993 to 43rd last year, and the 46th Precinct in the Bronx has seen similar improvement.
 ''You have to look at it precinct by precinct,'' Commissioner Kelly said when asked about this discrepancy. ''Sometimes it's gentrification. Sometimes it's buildings being torn down.''
 So life, or death, may depend on urban planning. Last year a study commissioned, again, by Mr. Hynes, looked at East Flatbush, which has gone from 10th in homicides to 3rd, and Brownsville, which has gone from 3rd to 15th. The study found that Brownsville's housing projects, and drug markets, were clustered in the center of the precinct, making them easier to police. But in East Flatbush, where violence was more entrenched, the center of the precinct was mostly single-family homes. The rough areas were scattered around the perimeter.
 At one time the Vanderveer Estates, a housing project where large drug rings have been dismantled in recent years, was among them. One intersection near the project, Foster and Nostrand, was referred to by residents as the Front Page, because the drug murders that happened there made the news, said Ric Curtis, an anthropologist at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice and one of the study's authors. Another area was called the Back Page, because it was the site of less sensational crimes.
 On the surface, it is hard to argue that the death of Mr. Yevenes had anything to do with where he lived. Then again, the man who the police say killed him was an ex-convict. Mr. Stanback had done time in the 1990's for robbery and misdemeanor assault. About 5,000 parolees or former inmates return home to Brooklyn every year. And while only 7 percent of homicide suspects are parolees, almost 68 percent have a previous arrest record.
 The Brooklyn district attorney's office has recently expanded a program that gives counseling and jobs to former inmates. ''I believe that the key to public safety is recidivism reduction,'' Mr. Hynes said.
 Undoubtedly, alcohol was also a factor in Mr. Yevenes's death. Andrew Karmen, a professor who has spent untold hours studying the factors that affect the homicide rate, from police strategies to demographics to an uptick in the city's education level, combed through autopsy files to see how many homicide victims were drunk or on drugs. He found that in 1997, 39 percent of victims tested positive for alcohol, 17 percent for cocaine, 2 percent for opiates and 21 percent for marijuana. Almost half of all victims had some intoxicant in their bloodstream when they were killed.
 Statistics like these suggest the limits of law enforcement in combating violence. ''Effective law enforcement can bring down the crime rate to a considerable degree,'' Dr. Karmen said. ''But only by tackling the social roots of crime -- poverty, unemployment, failing schools -- can a society truly prevent despair and disruption.''
 But just as law enforcement is telescoping down to the smallest elements of violence, environmental and social measures need not tackle the large questions to be effective. The Brooklyn study found that good management in housing projects helped suppress crime -- one replaced the mailboxes and ceiling tiles where dealers liked to stash contraband; another put security cameras and card readers in the laundry room, so residents would not have to use cash.
 ''The macro changes that we saw -- improvements in the economy, changes in demographics, the drop-off in the crack epidemic -- all of those have kind of run their course, if you will,'' Dr. Curtis said. ''These further improvements on the local level come from being able to focus on the smaller stuff.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Detectives at the scene of the killing of Luciano Yevenes in the 77th Precinct in Brooklyn. The police blamed a personal dispute, a hard motive to combat. While murders are down again in New York this year, hot spots persist, and the 77th is among the top 10. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Above, the mother of Luciano Yevenes learns of his death in Brooklyn
top, a detective carries evidence
right, the body is removed
below, an officer covers his shoes before entering the crime scene. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart/Maps: ''A Picture of Declining Crime''New York City's homicide rate has dropped precipitously since 1990, giving the city a rate near the national rate and among the lowest of major cities. Homicides have declined in every police precinct over the past decade, but the pattern has stayed generally the same.Graph tracks the annual homicides per 100,000 people in New York City and the United States from 1960-2003.ANNUAL HOMICIDES PER 100,000 PEOPLE, FIRST HALF OF 2004Philadelphia: 20.6Chicago: 14.8Phoenix: 14.1Houston: 13.1Los Angeles: 12.8New York: 6.9Maps of New York City highlighting the percentages of homicides located in each police precinct in 1993 and 2003.(Sources by New York City Police Department
 Federal Bureau of Investigation)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); COCAINE (89%); SHOOTINGS (79%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (77%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); GANGS (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); CHILD WELFARE (65%); CANNABIS (63%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Police; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Domestic Violence; Murders and Attempted Murders

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

PERSON: Shaila K Dewan; Luciano Yevenes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



665 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2549 words

HEADLINE: The Disc's Coming of Age, From Noir and Hitchcock To Jerry Lewis and Seinfeld

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
In the year 2004 the DVD came of age. No longer just a cheaper, more convenient substitute for VHS, the silver disc has brought a whole new level of technical excellence to home video. And to feed a medium that now demands sharp pictures and full sound, the studios and their independent brethren have been scouring the world's archives for the best available prints in their most complete versions, and financing elaborate restorations that would have been considered absurdly uneconomic three or four years ago. Though nothing, in the heart of a true cinephile, can ever replace the experience of seeing a film projected on a screen, DVD has made hundreds of rare and exotic movies available to folks who are not lucky enough to live within range of a major archive or museum, and our film culture is much richer as a result. 
 Here is a list of some of the most notable DVD's to appear in the last 12 months, somewhat arbitrarily cut off at 20, though many more could be added -- and a whole lot more than that if DVD's from outside the United States market were included. In the interests of simplicity and accessibility, though, this accounting is restricted to Region 1 discs, those manufactured for release in North America.

Hitchcock to Lang

'ALFRED HITCHCOCK SIGNATURE COLLECTION' (Warner Home Video, $99.98). Bringing together nine of the Hitchcock films controlled by Time Warner, this beautifully produced set features painstaking new transfers of some familiar titles -- including ''The Wrong Man,'' ''Stage Fright'' and ''I Confess'' -- as well as three films making their DVD debut: ''Dial M for Murder,'' ''Foreign Correspondent'' and ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith.'' The keystone of the collection is the double-disc edition of ''Strangers on a Train,'' which includes, in addition to an impeccable transfer of the American release version, a rediscovered early edit that contains some additional scenes, along with several unusually informative documentaries on the film's making.

'DAWN OF THE DEAD ULTIMATE EDITION' (Anchor Bay, $49.98). A year that saw Zack Snyder's entertaining if superficial remake of George Romero's 1978 zombie classic also saw Anchor Bay's spectacular reissue of the original, in a four-disc set that includes three versions of the film: Mr. Romero's preferred American release version, a looser ''director's cut'' that was shown in the market at Cannes, and the European cut supervised by Dario Argento. A fourth disc features Roy Frumkes's excellent ''making of'' documentary, ''Document of the Dead,'' and a mountain of marginalia, topping off what amounts to a scholarly edition of one of the most resonant and influential horror films ever made.

'FILM NOIR CLASSIC COLLECTION' (Warner Home Video, $49.92). When this five-film box set appeared from Warner Home Video in July, it announced that company's new ambition: to challenge the Criterion Collection for high-quality transfers and extensive supplementary material. Here are two of the crowning masterpieces of the genre: Joseph H. Lewis's ''Gun Crazy'' and Jacques Tourneur's ''Out of the Past,'' as well as three lesser but still commanding titles (''The Asphalt Jungle,'' ''Murder My Sweet'' and ''The Set-Up''), all transported to video with appropriately inky blacks and excellent shadow detail.

'FRITZ LANG EPIC COLLECTION' (Kino International, $99.95). What a year it has been for admirers of the great German-American filmmaker Fritz Lang. First Kino released this magnificent set of Lang silents (''Metropolis,'' ''Die Nibelungen,'' ''Spies'' and ''Woman in the Moon'') and then Criterion upgraded its edition of Lang's first sound film, ''M.'' All of these discs are based on the recent restorations of the films by the German film archives, which in the case of the silents are almost twice as long as the edited American release versions (''Woman in the Moon,'' long considered a misfire in its short form, turns out to be a major film at its full 169 minutes). And because the Germans are working from original material (camera negatives in some cases), all the films have startlingly fine pictorial qualities, heretofore obscured by generations of grime and sloppy duplication.

Comedy and Decadence

'JERRY LEWIS COLLECTION' (Paramount Home Video, $14.99 each). Is it finally time to stop with the French-love-him jokes and acknowledge that Jerry Lewis is one of the great American filmmakers? The 10 Lewis films released by Paramount this fall, all in fine transfers and with additional material drawn from Mr. Lewis's extensive archives, reveal both the fierce creativity of his comic performances and the extreme formal sophistication of his direction. The centerpiece is the 1963 ''The Nutty Professor,'' presented in a two-disc special edition, a study in split personality that both anticipates Ingmar Bergman's 1966 ''Persona'' and surpasses it in psychological acuity. It's also a lot funnier.

'JOHN CASSAVETES: FIVE FILMS' (Criterion Collection, $124.95). An independent filmmaker back when that term still meant something, John Cassavetes created some of the most idiosyncratic films ever made in this country: sprawling, rough-edged stories of middle-aged Americans gripped by emotional crises, often of their own making. This box set from the standard-setting Criterion Collection offers restorations of the five features owned by the Cassavetes estate: ''Shadows,'' ''Faces,'' ''A Woman Under the Influence,'' ''The Killing of a Chinese Bookie'' and ''Opening Night,'' along with Charles Kiselyak's whopping 200-minute documentary on Cassavetes's life and art, ''A Constant Forge.''

'JUDEX' (Flicker Alley, $39.95). The Surrealists loved Louis Feuillade's crime serials, spun from the pulp fiction of the turn of the century, for their bizarre and subversive qualities, including the constant suggestion that the world as we know it is only a false front hiding the true activities of capitalist rapscallions. ''Judex,'' from 1917, is about a caped crime fighter on a mission to avenge his father, ruined by cunning bankers, and the five-and-a-half-hour film has been given an excellent two-disc treatment by the indie company Flicker Alley.

'L'AGE D'OR' (Kino International, $24.95). Once one of the world's most difficult films to see -- thanks to generations of persecution by church and state -- Luis Bunuel's Surrealist masterpiece can now be a part of every American home thanks to this excellent disc, based on a British master, from Kino. Bunuel seems to be pounding on most of the hot buttons of Western culture at once, combining unbridled lust, creative blasphemy and even some gross-out gags that wouldn't be out of place in an Adam Sandler vehicle into a discontinuous narrative centered on a pair of lovers who never quite manage to get it on.

'LA DOLCE VITA' (Koch Lorber, $34.98). Rights issues have kept this groundbreaking 1960 film by Fellini out of circulation for many years; finally cleared, it has turned up on a solid double-disc edition, featuring commentary by the film critic Richard Schickel and an introduction by the director Alexander Payne. Fellini's heavy-breathing denunciation of modern decadence -- a woman strips at a party! -- now seems quaint, but the film has moments of pulsating poetry unlike any other Fellini film, most memorably in the nocturnal hush of the celebrated Trevi Fountain scene.

Virgins and Porky Pig

'LEGONG -- DANCE OF THE VIRGINS' (Image Entertainment, $29.99). Quite a discovery: a full-length anthropological fiction, shot in two-strip Technicolor on location in Bali and directed by a French aristocrat, Henri de la Falaise, who was the trophy husband of two Hollywood stars, Gloria Swanson and Constance Bennett. A seductive blend of serious documentary, lyrical effusion and unbridled prurience (yes, those native girls are topless), the film takes us back to a time when movies looked out at the world, rather than trying to create artificial environments. This lovingly produced disc, from the altruistic spirits at Image Entertainment, contains the year's most impressive supplementary package: two more complete anthropological features, plus a newly commissioned gamelan score for ''Legong'' that makes for a lovely listening experience even with the image turned off.

'THE LEOPARD' (Criterion, $49.95). Here the Criterion Collection does what the pioneering company does best: present a classic film in a definitive edition, impeccably transferred to video, and fill out the release with relevant and informative supplementary material, including a newly produced hourlong documentary on the film's making. Visconti's 1963 film is based on the novel by Lampedusa, about an aging aristocrat (Burt Lancaster) who sacrifices himself and his traditional way of life to make way for the new Italy being formed by Garibaldi. Though the film is often described as the Italian ''Gone With the Wind,'' its regretful but clear-eyed vision of the individualism of the past slipping into the collectivism of the future is more suggestive of John Ford's ''Searchers.''

'LOONEY TUNES GOLDEN COLLECTION, VOL. 2' (Warner Home Video, $64.92). Warner Brothers continues to mine one of the studio's greatest resources, the brilliant cartoons produced for peanuts in a back-lot shack its inhabitants respectfully referred to as ''Termite Terrace.'' With 56 cartoons on the first disc, released in 2003, and 60 more on this one, that leaves Warners with something like 880 to go, and we can only hope they'll all get the same fine treatment. With prints restored from the original theatrical versions, rather than the faded television copies that many of us grew up with, the cartoons seem brighter, crisper and funnier than ever. Volume 2 goes some way toward redressing the injustice done toward the animator Robert Clampett, underrepresented in Volume 1, by offering several of his classics, including the daring black-and-white ''Porky in Wackyland.''

'MARX BROTHERS SILVER SCREEN COLLECTION' (Universal Home Video, $59.98). It's heaven to have all five of the Marx Brothers' Paramount features under one roof, particularly in such well-restored prints. Even the brothers' first feature, ''The Cocoanuts,'' from 1929, has been much upgraded, from the battered, 16-millimeter reduction prints that were for long the only source, to include a few reels of startlingly clear 35-millimeter material, and the scratchy early sound has been cleaned up enough to make the ''Why a duck?'' routine clearly audible for the first time in memory. Universal, which owns the rights to most of the pre-1948 Paramount films, is sitting on enough great material to produce an infinity of similar sets. How about Preston Sturges and Ernst Lubitsch in the new year?

Monsters and Jedis

'MONSTER LEGACY COLLECTION VOL. 1' (Frankenstein, Dracula, the Wolf Man); 'VOL. 2' (the Mummy, the Invisible Man, the Creature from the Black Lagoon) (Universal Home Video, $29.98 each). It's an ill wind that blows nobody good, and in this case, the wind was Universal's greatly botched ''Van Helsing,'' in which the studio trampled on its most precious franchises, the classic horror characters it created in the 30's and 40's. Meant to promote ''Van Helsing,'' and featuring many annoying interventions from that film's director, Stephen Sommers, the ''Monster Legacy Collection'' presents the major Universal horror cycles in their completeness. Ranging from masterpieces like ''The Bride of Frankenstein'' (a remastering corrects Universal's sloppy original release of this title) to curiosities like Joe May's ''Invisible Man Returns,'' the ''Legacy'' sets are admirably inclusive, embracing the good, the bad and the patently ridiculous.

'THE OFFICE -- THE COMPLETE COLLECTION' (BBC, $59.92). As American comedy becomes broader and more gag-oriented, British comedy -- on television, at least -- is rediscovering the pleasures of psychological realism. By design, ''The Office'' lasted only two short seasons, in addition to a two-hour Christmas special (all included in the BBC box set), and its dramatic structure and character development are more like a movie's than the open-ended, serial form of American sitcoms. Ricky Gervais's David Brent, the grandly annoying office manager, is a tragic figure for our times, caught between a debilitating awareness of his own mediocrity and a New Age business culture that urges him on to ever-more hideous flights of self-actualization.

'OUTSKIRTS/THE GIRL WITH THE HATBOX' (Image Entertainment, $24.99). The canonical list of great Soviet filmmakers (Eisenstein, Vertov, Dovzhenko, et al.) usually omits the name of Boris Barnet, perhaps because Barnet's rich and paradoxical sense of human nature seems an implicit rebuke to the mechanical, stimulus-response aesthetics of his more theoretical, montage-obsessed colleagues. This fine release from the restoration expert David Shepard pairs one of Barnet's masterworks, the 1933 ''Outskirts,'' with the less inventive but still quite entertaining silent ''The Girl With the Hatbox.''

'SCTV VOL. 1 AND 2' (Shout Factory, $89.98 each). Between them, these two box sets present 18 programs, each 90 minutes long, from the legendary late-night comedy series first broadcast on NBC in 1981 and '82. The volume of the work is staggering by itself; that it is of consistent brilliance seems miraculous. The great cast, with the sad exception of the late John Candy, has been reassembled for extensive commentary tracks and detailed documentaries on various aspects of the show's production.

'SEINFELD: SEASONS 1 & 2, SEASON 3' (Columbia-TriStar, $49.95 each). How much do you love Jerry, Elaine, George and Kramer? These two four-disc box sets, collecting 41 episodes from the show's first years on the air, are just the beginning of Columbia TriStar's DVD rollout of the vastly popular program, and both come crammed with enough supplementary material to keep an army of graduate students occupied for years to come.

'STAR WARS TRILOGY' (20th Century Fox Home Video, $69.98). George Lucas was right to keep the three crown jewels of his ''Star Wars'' saga -- ''A New Hope,'' ''The Empire Strikes Back'' and ''Return of the Jedi'' -- away from DVD until the format had reached technical maturity. The transfers, both of image and sound, are state of the art, and anyone looking to blow out a new home-theater system need seek no further. The films will continue to be loved by cultists and sniffed at by critics, though Mr. Lucas may have alienated part of his fan base by inserting new digital effects into the analog originals. This isn't the ''Star Wars'' you saw when it first came out, but a buffed, polished, idealized version of it.

'YAKUZA PAPERS' (Home Vision Entertainment, $99.95). DVD is finally allowing American viewers to catch up with many of the Japanese genre entertainments that were considered too lowbrow to be exported at the time of their making. No single director has benefited more from the fad for Japanese pulp than Kinji Fukasaku, a filmmaker whose taste for violence and social provocation suggests the American Samuel Fuller. This handsome box set unites all five, feature-length installments of Fukasaku's 1973-74 theatrical series about the gangland conflicts of postwar Hiroshima, which become a bloody metaphor for Japan's 1950's ''economic miracle.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Dall and Peggy Cummins in ''Gun Crazy,'' a movie included in the five-film box set ''Film Noir Classic Collection.'' (Photo by Film Forum)
Jerry Lewis as Professor Julius Kelp in the 1963 film ''The Nutty Professor.'' (Photo by Paramount Pictures)
Marcello Mastroianni and Anita Ekberg in ''La Dolce Vita,'' Fellini's 1960 drama. (Photo by Riama/Pathe)
Farley Granger, right, and Robert Walker in Hitchcock's ''Strangers on a Train.'' Right, a scene from ''Woman in the Moon.'' (Photos by Warner Brothers, left
 Kino on Video) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%) Recordings (Video) 

PERSON: Dave Kehr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



666 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Business Index for Midwest Points to a Modest Slowdown

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
An index of Midwest business activity fell for a second consecutive month in December, a sign of slower growth in manufacturing.
 The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said yesterday that its business barometer declined to 61.2 this month, from 65.2 in November. Readings higher than 50 indicate growth. 
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said that the number of Americans filing initial unemployment claims fell unexpectedly last week. Initial jobless claims dropped 5,000, to 326,000, in the week that ended last Saturday. Economists had forecast a rise in claims to 335,000. 
 Even with the latest decline in the Chicago index, December marked the 20th consecutive month of expansion. The index has dropped since reaching a 16-year high of 68.5 in October. 
 ''While the December index is lower than those for October and November, it is still quite elevated,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc. in New York. Measures of orders and production are ''evidence that the manufacturing sector is still enjoying solid upward momentum.'' 
 The purchasing group's employment index dropped to 49.1, the lowest since July. In November, the jobs gauge rose to 60.8, which was the highest since August 1988. 
 The fall in the Chicago employment number ''is a perfect example of stuff to ignore in these factory surveys,'' said Tim Rogers, chief economist at Briefing.com in Boston. ''Factories aren't going to be hiring at the fastest pace in over a decade one month and fire everyone the next.'' 
 The economy created more than two million jobs in 2004, the most since 1999. The rebound in hiring is regarded as a reason for continued consumer spending, which has increased this year's economic growth to the strongest pace in five years. 
 Jobless claims have averaged 343,000 a week in 2004, compared with 402,000 in 2003.
 The four-week moving average of claims, a less volatile indicator, fell by 6,000, to 333,500, in the latest week, the Labor Department said. The number of people continuing to collect state jobless benefits rose to 2.755 million in the week that ended Dec. 18, from 2.751 million a week earlier. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A job board in Illinois. Americans filing initial claims for state unemployment benefits posted an unexpected decline last week. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for uenmployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows the 4-week moving average of claims since July 2004. (Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BRIEFING.COM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



667 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Montana Universities Must Offer Health Insurance to Gay Employees' Partners, Court Rules

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
Montana's public universities must provide their gay employees with insurance coverage for their domestic partners, the state's Supreme Court ruled yesterday. 
 The majority in the 4-to-3 decision said the decision had nothing to do with the rights of gay couples to marry. But a dissenting judge criticized his colleagues as ''radically altering common law marriage in Montana.''
 Gay rights advocates said the decision was an important victory on the narrower point. 
 ''It is the first time that any state high court has ruled that a state has a constitutional obligation to provide domestic partner health care benefits,'' said James D. Esseks, the litigation director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Lesbian and Gay Rights and AIDS Projects, which represented the two lesbian couples who brought the suit challenging the state's policy. ''It's a recognition by the Montana Supreme Court that the government can't treat gay people differently on economic issues.''
 Sheila M. Stearns, Montana's commissioner of higher education, said the university system ''will do everything we need to do to comply with the decision and the equal protection clause of the Montana Constitution.''
 Since the case was decided on state law grounds, a request that the United States Supreme Court hear the case would almost certainly be turned down.
 The Montana decision came a day after a trial judge in Arkansas struck down a state regulation that barred gays from being foster parents. 
 The two cases are particularly notable, Mr. Esseks said. 
 ''These are courts in relatively conservative states where the voters just overwhelmingly approved banning same-sex couples from marriage,'' he said, referring to state constitutional amendments passed in November. 
 The policy at issue in Montana limited dependent health case coverage to the employee's children and to the spouses of married employees. 
 The policy required employees and their spouses to prove they were married. One way they could do that was by signing a sworn statement that they were part of an informal arrangement known as a common-law marriage, which requires that the couple live together and be known in the community as husband and wife.
 Couples who signed the affidavit were required to swear that they had ''mutually consented and contracted to become husband and wife'' and assumed ''all the responsibilities and duties which the law attached to such a relationship.''
 The court's majority focused on this option, saying that making it available only to heterosexual couples violated the equal protection clause of the state's Constitution.
 Although the decision turned on a definition of marriage, the majority emphasized that gay marriage was not at issue.
 ''We have not been asked nor will we address the question of whether Montana's marriage statutes discriminate against same-sex couples by denying them the right to marry,'' Justice Jim Regnier wrote for the majority.
 In a concurring decision, Justice James C. Nelson, criticized the recent constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage.
 ''Sadly,'' Justice Nelson wrote, ''many politicians and 'we the people' rarely pass up an opportunity to bash and condemn gays and lesbians despite the fact that these citizens are our neighbors and that they work, pay taxes, vote, hold public office, own businesses, provide professional services, worship, raise their families and serve their communities in the same manner as heterosexuals.''
 Justice Jim Rice, in dissent, said the majority had radically revised Montana's marriage laws.
 ''This case,'' Justice Rice wrote, ''is about the legal status of marriage in our society, specifically, whether the law still recognizes marriage as the transcendent societal relationship upon which government may base its decisions.''
 Under the decision, Justice Rice continued, ''marriage would be rendered simply a societal option without exclusive legal significance.''
 Carol Snetsinger, a plaintiff in the case, said the decision was an important step for her and her partner, Nancy Siegel. The women have lived together for 10 years.
 ''Getting married would be a wonderful thing for us,'' Ms. Snetsinger said. ''But since that's not on the horizon in Montana anytime soon, we're working on achieving the basic right to equal protection.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COHABITATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GAY PARENTING (78%); VERDICTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); JUDGES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); FOSTER CARE (64%) Medicine and Health; Constitutions; Homosexuality; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Decisions and Verdicts; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); MONTANA SUPREME COURT (56%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (56%)

PERSON: Adam Liptak

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Montana

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



668 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Kurds Enjoy Self-Rule and Are Trying to Keep It

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: ERBIL, Iraq 

 BODY:
Even at night, on a busy thoroughfare in this Kurdish city, the sedan is an easy mark for the Kalashnikov-toting police at the checkpoint. It has Baghdad license plates and, more alarmingly, Arabs in the front seat. ''What are you doing here?'' the police demand, motioning the car to the side. 
 It was a routine exchange, but one that reveals how far Erbil and the entire Kurdish region have drifted from the rest of Iraq and toward an informal but unmistakable autonomy that Kurdish leaders are determined to preserve. 
 Residents in northern Iraq already call the area Kurdistan. The territory, stretching from Kirkuk on the region's southern edge to the Tigris River in the west and to Turkey and Iran in the north and east, is patently a world apart from the rest of Iraq. 
 There is a building boom, with new apartments, hospitals and shopping centers. The gleaming 10-story Hotel Erbil, opened in October, is often sold out, its 167 rooms renting for $68 to $193. Markets bustle, and even the devalued dollar goes a long way, with decent-quality Turkish-made pullovers for $12 and a Pepsi and shwarma sandwich -- the Iraqi hot dog -- for a little more than 50 cents.
 While extensive areas of Iraq remain plagued by violence, the Kurdish sector is calm, with tight security maintained by swarms of Kurdish police officers and militiamen. Reconstruction projects, lagging in many parts of the country, are moving briskly ahead. 
 The Kurds have veto power over most laws passed by the central government in Baghdad and have their own 80,000-member military, the pesh merga, whose troops are far better disciplined and skilled than most of their new Iraqi counterparts. 
 In many places it is impossible to find an Iraqi flag. But the Kurds' red, white and green standard with a shining sun in the middle flies everywhere, even atop an Iraqi border guard compound in far northeastern Iraq. 
 Yet while the Kurdish region may appear to be, for all practical purposes, a separate country, it can preserve its shaky independence only by denying it, and not just to Baghdad. Powerful neighbors, particularly Turkey and Iran, which both have substantial Kurdish populations, are highly sensitive to the slightest hint of Kurdish nationalism. And the United States rejects any idea of independence, which has wide support among Kurdish residents.
 The Kurds' desire for autonomy promises to tear at the unity of the new Iraq that the election planned for late January is supposed to help build. The voters are to choose a legislature to write a new constitution. But some Iraqi leaders have already expressed resentment at the most important safeguard of Kurdish independence: the power to veto the new constitution. 
 For now Kurdish officials appear unwilling to coexist on anything but their own terms, which means bolstering their autonomy and preventing outside interference, whether from Baghdad or another country. 
 Hamid Afandi, the minister of pesh merga for the Kurdish regional government based in Erbil, outlined one possible strategy: take control of Kirkuk -- the disputed oil city north of Baghdad, where Kurds are even now wresting land from the Arabs who were settled there by Saddam Hussein -- grab a far larger share of Kirkuk's oil revenue than the Kurds now get and use that to triple the size of the pesh merga force.
 ''We are ready to fight against all forces to control Kirkuk,'' Mr. Afandi said. ''Our share is very little. We'll try to take a larger share.'' So far, the Americans have blocked those ambitions, Mr. Afandi said. ''If they would permit us, we could control Kirkuk,'' he said, ''but it is forbidden.''
 Kurdish officials say they will take part in the writing of the new constitution on the assumption that if they do not like what emerges, they have a veto. According to the existing temporary constitution, the public referendum on the new charter will be defeated if two-thirds of voters in three provinces (the Kurdish-dominated region of northern Iraq has three) reject it. 
 But other Iraqi leaders have in the past suggested that the temporary constitution will no longer be operative after the January election, depriving Kurds of their veto power. Striving to avoid that sort of outcome, the main Kurdish political parties have joined forces to offer a unified slate of candidates. And the Kurds finished a huge voter registration drive in early December in hopes of packing the new parliament with as many representatives as possible.
 But it has been a difficult process, compounded by the region's deep mistrust and suspicion of Arabs. 
 Up to 90 percent of the voter registration forms in Erbil Province contained errors, according to Kurdish officials. ''Those people in Baghdad did this deliberately!'' said Muhammad Salah Salim, an elderly former member of the pesh merga, as he stood in a line of more than 100 people at the Fatima Zahar primary school here, waiting to get his registration form corrected. ''They want to trick the Kurdish by doing this.'' 
 Officials with the party that controls the western and northern Kurdish areas, the Kurdistan Democratic Party, say they are concerned about whether the rolls will be corrected and whether the mistakes were in fact deliberate. 
 The top official in Erbil Province for the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq, Kamal Hussein Khambar, said in an interview that similar mistakes had been made throughout Iraq, but acknowledged that the errors were worse in the Kurdish areas. He said the problem with the voter lists was being remedied and predicted that 750,000 people would vote in Erbil Province alone.
 There is no doubting the Kurds' intense interest. In her neat white smock and shined black shoes, an art teacher at the Fatima Zahar school, Nawal Abdul-Karem, who is doing double duty as an election coordinator, sums up what many hope to achieve. ''There should be federalism,'' she said, using the code word for regional autonomy from Baghdad. ''And we should have Kirkuk.''
 Kirkuk is a flash point city of Kurds, Arabs and Turkmens. Kurds who were evicted by the Hussein government are now returning by the thousands, living in tents and shanties and pushing for permission to enter the city and reclaim what Kurdish leaders say are properties that were stolen from them.
 Privately, the leaders have admitted in the past that some Kurds are simply grabbing property, evicting Arabs -- many of whom were themselves forcibly relocated to the Kurdish areas -- from their homes of 20 or more years. The Arabs have complained of vicious treatment by returning Kurds, including some killings. 
 As many as 100,000 Arabs have fled the area, American officials have said, and many are now living in refugee camps scattered across central Iraq. Kurdish leaders have threatened to boycott the provincial elections in January unless the Arabs are quickly resettled.
 Oil is a crucial subtext to the struggle for Kirkuk, and Kurdish leaders see the control of oil revenue as a way to further bolster their autonomy.
 Kurds have been pressing the central government to raise their share of Iraqi oil money, arguing that they have long been shortchanged. And they have angered leaders in Baghdad by embarking on deals with foreign companies to develop the oil fields they already control. The central government holds what it considers a sovereign right to all of Iraq's oil and has warned companies about making development deals with anyone other than an official government representative.
 Even without the oil money, the region's economy appears to be far outpacing that of the rest of Iraq. A recent United Nations bulletin warned that imports into Iraq fell sharply in August and September, largely because of security concerns. ''The reduced levels of trade, coupled with the very low levels of legitimate non-oil exports from Iraq, does not bode well for the country's short-term level of prosperity,'' the bulletin warned. 
 But in Erbil, signs of prosperity abound. Most of the investment is from Erbil natives or friends and relatives in Europe and the United States, said Gilbert Jabre, general manager of the hotel. He also credits Kurdish officials, who work hard to attract foreign investment, and the security situation. ''In all of Iraq, it is the only safe place,'' he said.
 Security is ubiquitous and highly effective in the Kurdish zone, where racial profiling of Arabs is the norm. ''Not all Arabs are bad,'' said a pesh merga soldier, Janger Kanabi. ''But if they do bad things, then we are compelled to do the same to them.''
 Kurdish forces, including those in the Iraqi National Guard and border patrol, are easily distinguished from most of their troubled counterparts in other regions of Iraq, whose manifold discipline and loyalty problems are a continuing headache for American commanders. 
 The Kurds hold their guns down, dress neatly and appear ever alert. Except for a devastating pair of suicide bomb attacks on Feb. 1 that killed more than 60 people, the Kurdish region has been largely free of the nightmare of beheadings, kidnappings and car bombings.
 The embrace of security may soon give a further economic lift to the Kurdish zone. In recent weeks several directors general of provincial agencies in Mosul have refused to sign agreements totaling almost $25 million to receive Congressionally appropriated money for new health clinics, school renovations, courthouse refurbishments and other projects, said an American official in Mosul who is helping to coordinate American reconstruction spending.
 As a result, the official said, more reconstruction money may flow to the Kurdish region, where it is welcomed. Officials in other parts of Iraq, fearing assassination by insurgents, ''are scared to death,'' he said. ''They don't want to be associated with us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction workers, top, on a site in central Erbil. Security is much better in the north than the rest of Iraq, so investment is flowing in and residents can enjoy events like a wedding party in the Hotel Erbil, above. (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)Map of Iraq highlighting Erbil: Erbil is the largest city in the Kurdish-controlled region of Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (70%); VETO (69%); RETAILERS (68%); DEVALUATION (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); TURKEY (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



669 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: CELLPHONES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Text Messaging Pushed for Use as Disaster Warning Systems

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
When the tsunami hit Sri Lanka, Sanjaya Senanayake found he could not make calls on his cellphone or regular land line at first -- but he could send and receive text messages from his cellphone. 
 Mr. Senanayake, a 23-year-old television producer, has spent the last few days reporting on the disaster, frantically searching for friends and posting his experiences to the networked world through a Web log, or blog -- often via text messages relayed by a friend in Mumbai, India, formerly known as Bombay.
 ''It's a very easy, instant way to get the message across,'' he said in a cellphone interview. 
 Experts say that thousands of deaths might have been avoided if warning systems had been in place to alert the people around the rim of the Indian Ocean of the tsunami. No such system exists there now, although the United States has such a system in place for countries of the Pacific basin. 
 Those who design and use the wireless technology known as Short Message Service, currently used for chatter and advertisements, say it could be used to jumpstart governments' warning networks.
 ''This tragedy is going to put this more to the forefront,'' said Greg Wilfahrt, cofounder of SMS.ac, a company that sells text message services in more than 170 countries. 
 The technology, though used most avidly in the United States by teenagers, is wildly popular worldwide and has accompanied the international boom in cellphone use. 
 Even in parts of the developing world, cellphones are everywhere: almost half of the Malaysian population uses them, according to a survey released this month. 
 ''The way they use the cellphones over there, it makes us look like amateurs,'' said Steve O'Rourke, a director of the Asia Pacific Research Group, which has studied cellphone use. Cellphone use has not spread quite as widely in many of those nations as it has in the developed world, of course. But getting cellphones to people living in remote, impoverished areas has been a major focus of economic development efforts. 
 Even a few phones might do the trick in the face of an impending disaster, Mr. Senanayake said. The message need only reach ''one person in every locality who has a phone,'' he said, and that person can spread the word.
 Emergency warning systems are not new. In the United States, the Emergency Alert System, formerly known as the Emergency Broadcast System, has existed in some form since 1951 and broadcasts warnings over television and radio. 
 The system is used hundreds of times each year to warn people of local emergencies. Many towns also use speed dialers to warn residents of emergencies. But the rise of the cellphone creates new opportunities.
 ''The cool thing about mobile messaging is you're not tethered in front of your PC, you don't have to be in front of your television,'' Mr. Wilfahrt said.
 The idea of governments using mobile messages to communicate with citizens is beginning to take hold. In April 2003, Hong Kong's government sent out a text message to 6 million mobile phones to quash a rumor that Hong Kong had been designated an ''infected city'' for severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS.
 The Netherlands, too, is building a text message network that will allow the government to issue alerts to mobile phone users nationwide or within an area of a few city blocks.
 Still, the risks and costs of false warnings are high. A false warning by the Indian government on Thursday that another tsunami was imminent caused thousands to flee their homes. 
 That is why text message warnings ''have to be enormously bulletproof,'' effective and virtually immune to hacking, said James Katz, director of the center for mobile communication studies at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. 
 In the past, he said, citizens have not been comfortable with the government having a back door to their personal technology. An initiative discussed during the Ford administration to mandate that all televisions be designed to turn on automatically for emergency announcements was dropped, Dr. Katz said, because of fears that it would be seen as an Orwellian ''Big Brother'' program.
 Ultimately, warning systems will only go so far to address the problems of disaster reduction, said Kenneth Allen, the executive director of the Partnership for Public Warning, a public-private partnership that urged that national alert systems be upgraded after the 9/11 attacks. 
 Mr. Allen said the promise of systems like text messaging should not distract policymakers from basics like education about the risk of tsunamis and how to spot natural warning signs like tremors and the strange behavior of the sea. 
 ''Strip aside all of the fancy technology,'' he said, and ''it's getting the right information to people so they can make the right decision -- and in this case, it didn't happen.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXT MESSAGING (95%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



670 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; ASIA'S DEADLY WAVES: AID; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: MANY STILL IN NEED AS AID IS TRICKLING TO STRICKEN AREA

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Warren Hoge, at the United Nations, Eric Lichtblau, in Banda Aceh, Indonesia, and Lawrence K. Altman, in New York, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Friday, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Food drops and other aid trickled toward this region from around the world on Friday, but slowly enough that the injured and the stranded in many places still had to fend for themselves as the toll from ''an unprecedented global catastrophe'' surged past 120,000. 
 The human tally in Indonesia jumped after officials said that nearly 28,000 more bodies had been uncovered in Aceh Province, on the island of Sumatra, near the epicenter of Sunday's enormous undersea earthquake. The discovery brought the death count close to 80,000 in this country alone. 
 At least three times the number of dead may be seriously injured, their survival dependent on the arrival of urgent medical aid, international health experts said. 
 At the United Nations, Secretary General Kofi Annan told a news conference on Thursday that a World Bank pledge of $250 million had raised the total amount devoted to the emergency to nearly $500 million. He said that more than 30 countries and millions of individuals had joined in the global campaign. 
 ''I am satisfied with the response so far,'' he said, but added, ''the only thing I want to stress is that we are in this for the long term and we need to help people rebuild their lives.''
 On Thursday, Mr. Annan met with the heads of major United Nations agencies, the ambassadors of 12 affected countries and representatives of the European Union. 
 He then took part by video link in a meeting in Washington that included Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, the president of the World Bank, James D. Wolfensohn, and the representatives of three other nations -- Australia, India and Japan -- that have formed a ''core group'' along with the United States to lead in coordinating the relief drive. 
 The White House announced that Mr. Powell would tour the region to assess its needs next week along with the president's brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. [Page A13.]
 Mr. Annan said he welcomed the group's initiative because the regional powers could immediately bring essential resources to the task and ''support the United Nations effort.''
 Speaking of the challenge ahead, Mr. Annan said, ''It is so huge that no one agency or one country can deal with it alone and that we need to coordinate our efforts and pool our efforts to have maximum impact on the crisis.''
 ''This is an unprecedented global catastrophe,'' he added, ''and it requires an unprecedented global response.'' 
 The extent of the red tape was demonstrated when the United Nations Children's Fund said that enough aid to help 200,000 people, including medical supplies, soap and tarpaulins, had landed Thursday at the Jakarta airport, far from the disaster scene. But the aid had to wait a day for customs clearance before it could be moved north, Unicef said.
 As the relief effort struggled to lift off, the death toll continued to rise along with fears of looting and disease. Sri Lanka reported more than 27,000 dead, India more than 10,000. Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra of Thailand said he feared the toll there could reach 7,000.
 People throughout the region remained jittery. On Thursday morning, the Indian government issued a warning of another tsunami along the southern coast, halting the recovery of bodies and sending people in India and Sri Lanka fleeing from the beaches in panic. 
 The warning, set off by a small aftershock, appeared to be a false alarm, but indicated the sensitivity of Indian officials to criticism that they should have alerted the coastal villages hit on Sunday, in many cases, two or three hours after the quake that caused the tsunami. 
 Nowhere do people appear as traumatized as in Aceh, which contains nearly all Indonesia's dead, making that province by far the hardest hit of any place in a disaster felt as far away as Africa. 
 The Indonesian government said that it had begun dropping packets of instant noodles and medicine from the air to survivors still stranded near cliffs on Aceh's western coast, but large areas remained inaccessible and as many as 20,000 more people are believed to be dead there. 
 Even in the provincial capital, Banda Aceh, relief of any kind was still badly lacking and frustration was growing among volunteers and survivors who, until the arrival of more coordinated international aid, had to make do for themselves.
 ''For four days now we haven't gotten any help,'' said Dasrizal Nyakna, 38, a leader of a group of some 35 volunteers who crammed into a truck and drove more than 24 hours up the coast to lend a hand, lugging boxes packed with clothing and food.
 ''People are still suffering,'' he said. ''They're still waiting, and we need more help, much more help.'' He lost his wife and two children on Sunday when the tsunami hit. 
 The first American military C-130 aircraft arrived in Medan on Thursday evening with three pallets of food and supplies and 15 marines who will assess how the far larger quantities of aid coming on American naval shops can be distributed. More C-130's are expected to shuttle to Medan from the air base at U Tapao, Thailand, on Friday. 
 The American consul in Medan, Paul Berg, said there were already huge bottlenecks, with aid being stuck at the airports at Banda Aceh and Medan. In Banda Aceh there were few trucks to take the supplies out of the airport, and the United States Agency for International Development was trying to organize a fleet of trucks for the 12-hour journey between the cities. 
 The aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln, accompanied by six ships, is steaming toward the waters off Aceh but is still some days away, an American officials said on Friday. Its main mission will be to get military helicopters and their American pilots within range of the coast so they can start dropping food and water. 
 Three other Navy vessels carrying more than 2,000 marines en route to Iraq from San Diego may be diverted as well, the military official said. The marines were needed in Iraq for the January elections, and whether they would be sent toward Indonesia was a ''political'' decision yet to be made, the official said Thursday. 
 The ships, he said, are carrying about a dozen heavy lift helicopters and full surgical hospitals -- equipment badly needed in Aceh, where doctors, nurses and medicines are almost nonexistent. 
 ''These amphibious ships bring significant help for the relief effort if the decision is made to deploy them,'' the official said. 
 The Australian government said it had sent four C-130 Hercules transport aircraft and a Boeing 707 carrying medical supplies, generators, shelter and water purification to Aceh. A ship with helicopters was to leave Australia on Friday but would not arrive in Aceh until Jan. 13, the government said.
 All around Aceh and elsewhere bodies remained uncollected as survivors turned to their own needs. 
 The threat of cholera and typhoid, and the stench of decay, had become so severe that people in Banda Aceh had begun burning bloated bodies exposed for days to the tropical sun, which is normally forbidden by Islam except in case of emergency. 
 At Meulaboh, a town of about 120,000 on the western coast of Aceh, about a third of the population was estimated to have perished in the succession of waves that swamped the town on Sunday, Indonesian officials said.
 An Indonesian officer, Captain Bachtiar, who is a member of the military command at Meulaboh, told Agence France-Presse that seven successive waves from the tsunami hit the town, about 90 miles from the epicenter of the quake.
 He described how he had been pinned under a rock and had given up hope of living. ''I had already accepted my fate,'' he said. ''My entire body was aching and I felt there was no longer any hope. But suddenly my leg managed to loosen itself.'' A wave then threw him safely onto a treetop.
 A British conservationist, Mike Griffiths, who flew over Meulaboh on Wednesday said he could see thirsty and hungry survivors walking around dazed. ''The picture that comes to me is of old photos you see of Hiroshima,'' he said. ''There is nothing, just a few odd buildings.''
 An Indonesian military ship sent to the town to deliver supplies on Wednesday could not dock, and had to leave, according to an Indonesian report.
 The president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who visited Banda Aceh briefly the day after the earthquake, will return Saturday, his aides said. He plans to make a special effort to fly to Meulaboh to emphasize the needs there, they said.
 But as criticism of the government's efforts mounted, the trade minister, Mari Pangestu, was forced to acknowledged the slow pace of relief, which had left people in Aceh begging for food and drinking water.
 She said the government had a ''system'' but that a lack of transportation and fuel had kept assistance parked at the airports in Medan and Banda Aceh on Sumatra from being delivered.
 Beyond those killed in the tsunami, hundreds of thousands of people have sustained serious injuries that need urgent medical care, Dr. Lee Jong Wook, the director general of the World Health Organization, said. 
 Other officials estimated that the number of seriously injured could be about three or four times those killed. But Dr. Pino Annunziata, a physician working in W.H.O.'s emergency response team, said, ''Surely that is an underestimate.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In the areas washed by the tsunami, all supplies are short, but the lines for gasoline yesterday in Banda Aceh, Indonesia, stretched through town. (Photo by Choo Youn-Kong/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A1)
 On Phi-Phi island, off Thailand, relief workers searched a market yesterday for bodies, wrapping them in plastic to take them for burial. (Photo by Kin Cheung/Reuters)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''The Death Toll''Estimated deaths across the region as of 8 p.m. Thursday.Map of affected countries highlighting estimated deaths across the region.INDIA: 10,000SOMALIA: 114KENYA: 1TANZANIA: 2MALDIVES: 69SRI LANKA: 27,000BANGLADESH: 2INDIA: 10,000INDONESIA: 80,000MALAYSIA: 65THAILAND: 2,400MYANMAR: 90 (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TSUNAMIS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Earthquakes; Tidal Waves ; Foreign Aid; Philanthropy; Earthquakes; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Looting; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; United Nations; United Nations Children's Fund

PERSON: Jane Perlez; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) INDONESIA (96%); INDIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); MALDIVES (79%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India; Sri Lanka; Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia; Australia; Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



671 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; HAVENS -- Skiing U.S.A.: Resorts on the Rise; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2274 words

HEADLINE: Tamarack, a Mountain For the 21st Century

BYLINE: By TIM NEVILLE

DATELINE: DONNELLY, Idaho 

 BODY:
ON the night before the opening of the country's newest destination ski resort, the scene was far from cliched John Denver tranquillity. Instead of hearing sleigh bells or following the spicy scent of mulled wine, the few people milling about Tamarack Resort near McCall had to be particularly careful not to be run over by forklifts.
 As trucks and heavy earth-moving equipment rattled along the newly constructed streets and walkways, crews installed streetlamps, laid carpet and otherwise readied the resort for V.I.P.'s, politicians, investors and curious powder hounds itching to make arguably the freshest tracks in North American skiing this season. 
 When Tamarack opened the next day, on Dec. 15, about 750 people showed up to ski 18 of the 25 runs cut so far, eat hamburgers and dance to the folky twang of a string band in a large canvas tent that, for the moment, serves as the resort's base lodge. But if the crowd and setting were modest, all through this valley of cattle ranchers about 110 miles north of Boise one could hear the climatic cymbal crash in what has been a decades-long crescendo building to this opening. Tamarack, on 7,700-foot West Mountain, is the first four-season ski resort in the United States -- like Big Sky or Vail -- to be built from the ground up since Beaver Creek in Colorado and Deer Valley in Utah opened within days of each other in December 1981.
 When the work is done in 10 to 15 years, Tamarack will be a $1.5 billion destination resort with 62 runs, 7 chairlifts, at least one 18-hole golf course, a medical clinic, a fire department, an amphitheater and some 34 stone and wood buildings in a base village area that will merit its own ZIP code. Property owners will have access to exclusive resort benefits: unlimited skiing, unlimited golf, early-bird ''fresh-tracks'' chairlift services on powder days, the best tables in the best restaurants and catering services.
 Plans for similar resorts -- Catamount in Colorado and Early Winters in Washington, to name two -- have popped up all across the West for decades. (One is currently under way outside Missoula, Mont.) But each one ran out of money or could not secure the necessary permits and has never opened. Tamarack, however, has made it through the financial-bureaucratic mogul field largely thanks to astute legal alliances forged by a French former ski instructor named Jean-Pierre Boespflug, 50. And unlike 92 percent of the 490 ski areas in the country, which sit on federally controlled Forest Service land, Tamarack's runs belong to the state of Idaho.
 ''When Tamarack came to us with a proposal, I thought, 'How can we make this work?' '' said Dirk Kempthorne, the Republican governor of Idaho, wearing Harley-Davidson motorcycle boots and standing in the snow near the resort's summit on opening day. ''We now have another world-class resort, not just a ski area, that adds to the pulse of Idaho. It's a long story, but it has a happy ending.''
 TAMARACK itself is built on the bones of a resort that struggled for about 15 years to open on nearly the same swath of land. (It is near the small town of Donnelly and should not be confused with the town of Tamarack, 30 miles to the northwest.) Throughout the 1980's, another group of investors had envisioned building a massive resort on land owned by Donald K. Weilmunster, a cattle farmer and a former Boise County commissioner. That company, called Valbois, wrestled for years to secure permits to open runs on land within Boise National Forest. The process, which included engineering fees and environmental impact studies, dragged on for years, and by 1998, Valbois was bankrupt with $6 million in debts and not a ski run cut.
 ''Ski areas like this are labor intensive, demand high capital up front, are dependent on mother nature and on top of all that, your landlord is typically the government,'' said Jim Spenst, Tamarack's vice president for operations. ''Who wants to invest in that?''
 A Mexican businessman named Alfredo Miguel Afif did. He is an investor with interests in plastics, petroleum and helicopters, and he paid off the Valbois debt after the bankruptcy and renamed the project WestRock. Mr. Boespflug, who has at least $28 million invested in the project, came aboard in 2000. Executives once again changed the name, to Tamarack, after a type of pine tree found in the area's forests. 
 Under Mr. Boespflug, a Stanford computer science graduate and a native of southern France with experience developing resorts in the Alps, engineers scaled back the original Valbois plan from 3,500 residential units to 2,043 units.
 More importantly, Mr. Boespflug, who once taught skiing at Squaw Valley on weekends, shifted the proposed ski runs slightly north to an adjacent and smaller swath of land managed by the state of Idaho, rather than by the federal government. The resort's vacation homes and base areas are on land that Tamarack bought from Mr. Weilmunster, nearly the same area once offered to Valbois.
 Unlike the federal government, Idaho actively seeks ways to use lands that were set aside long ago to help pay for schools. The Idaho State Land Board, which Governor Kempthorne heads, awarded Tamarack a 10-year lease in 2002. In spring 2003, the Idaho Legislature voted unanimously to extend it to 49 years at $250,000 a year or a percentage of gross receipts.
 Kent Sharp, a principal in the Frisco, Colo.-based mountain-development firm SE Group, said that Tamarack's move to state land had immediately and greatly improved its chances of success. ''Getting a permit for a ski area on federal land has become enormously more difficult since the 60's,'' he said. ''Laws have become more stringent about clean water, endangered species. Environmental impact statements can be 1,000 pages long.'' Mr. Sharp, whose firm did consulting work for Tamarack, added: ''Someone said, 'Can we do this on state land without involving the National Forest?' The answer was 'Yes.' ''
 Not everyone thinks that maneuvering was for the better. Ted Zukoski, a Denver-based lawyer with Earthjustice, a public-land advocacy group, said that ski resorts like Tamarack are more about selling high-end homes than promoting outdoor adventure. Valley County locals also complain of taxes propelled by skyrocketing property values -- up 17 percent, the highest increase in the state, since 2003 -- and a general loss of rural quiet to the noise of trucks and even helicopters. 
 But many in McCall and Donnelly, population 138, the resort's closest neighbor, view Tamarack as an economic lifeboat in an area staggering from a collapsed timber trade. Donnelly had one cafe six months ago. Now there are three with plans for two more. 
 Rory Veal, Tamarack's vice president of real estate sales, said Tamarack took in upward of $77 million from the sale of 171 properties during just four days of sales in 2004. More than 275 people have already put down a $10,000 refundable deposit to queue up for their pick at another 104 properties to be offered on Jan. 22. During the next year, the resort has plans for another 120 homes -- chalets, cottages, town houses and condominium apartments that it will build, as well as houses built by people who buy the resort's ''estate lots.'' Prices start at $300,000 for a 525-square-foot Tamarack-built studio condominium; people who build their own homes are expected to spend $6 million or more for a 12,000-square-foot custom-built house. These projects account for about a fifth of the land planned for residential development.
 Many buyers said that they considered Tamarack's prices reasonable, especially for the chance to be on the sharp end of founding a resort. That ''pioneering spirit'' is what Ron and Jeri Walz said had drawn them to Tamarack. One day last week the couple, who sold their home in San Diego to become Tamarack's first permanent residents, invited visitors into their 1,818-square-foot Douglas fir chalet. The interior has granite countertops, wood floors, 20-foot-high exposed-beam ceilings and a $27,000 ''furniture package'' that includes, among other things, an overstuffed couch, beds and a painting of a field and trees.
 The chalet is a temporary shelter until construction is complete on the Walzes' 5,000-square-foot $2 million custom home in the Pinnacle Place neighborhood. 
 The couple expressed no dismay at the virtually nonstop construction and a village base area made almost entirely of temporary Sprung tents -- massive canvas-wall structures called domes, that house restaurants, bars and ski services until a permanent village is built in the next few years. ''We really liked the quality of the vision they have for Tamarack,'' said Mr. Walz, who has four children and four corgis. ''It's only going to get better.''
 On opening day, after the first chair ferried Tamarack's dignitaries to a mid-mountain vista, more skiers arrived with $55 lift tickets in hand to test the new slopes. Though Tamarack has a leg-burning 2,828 vertical feet of terrain and a generous mix of beginner, intermediate and expert slopes, the runs do not make avid skiers drool like those at, say, Jackson Hole in Wyoming. 
 Tamarack plans to limit skiers to no more than 1,500 people on the mountain each day -- or about 150,000 a season -- to ensure guests have much of the mountain to themselves. By comparison, about 367,000 skiers visited Idaho's classic resort, Sun Valley, last year. To keep from having to turn people away, Mr. Spenst said that Tamarack would have advance ticket sales, but he said it could be years before numbers would really be an issue. 
 ''Rome wasn't built in a day,'' Mr. Boespflug said. ''We have a project here that's only slightly smaller.'' 
 MR. BOESPFLUG said that, for the moment, he was more concerned with creating a lively atmosphere for current visitors than peppering the land with buildings. ''I want to woo people with service, not concrete,'' he said. By service he primarily meant amenities offered to property owners who pay a one-time fee of $35,000 to be initiated into a members club. Once in, they pay another $425 a month for access to a concierge, season ski passes for the entire family, unlimited golf, priority seating in lounges and restaurants and discounted boat rentals for touring on Lake Cascade, among other perks.
 While prices on Tamarack's three real estate offerings jumped 30 percent between the first and second offerings and another 30 percent between the second and the Jan. 22 release to come -- all in a year -- the fact remains that the bulk of Mr. Boespflug's vision remains hidden behind trees yet to be felled, on land yet to be sold and in buildings yet to be built. 
 But it is Mr. Boespflug's vision that James Shanahan, a 64-year-old Texan who bought a $800,000 chalet, hopes becomes a reality, if not just for the investment. ''Everybody has their wish list and mine is to have a place in the mountains,'' Mr. Shanahan said, surrounded by his children eating lunch on opening day. ''When I ask the kids to come to my place for Christmas, now I know they're going to do it.''

IF YOU'RE LOOKING
How Do You Want Your Idaho, Condo or Chalet?

TAMARACK RESORT sells four types of housing: condominiums with up to three bedrooms, duplex-style town houses, two-story cottages and chalets with wraparound decks. It also sells ''estate lots'' upon which buyers can build a custom home.
 Homeowners are expected to pay $5 per $1,000 in property valuation a year for things like street maintenance, utilities for common buildings, etc. These dues would amount to $375 a month on a $900,000 chalet.
 Condos are offered fully furnished. The resort's sales team offers ''furniture packages'' for $35,000 to $55,000 as well as an ''electronics package''-- including DVD players, televisions and a security monitoring system to alert workers of fires or frozen pipes -- for another $3,200. Buyers planning to offer their home for rent through Tamarack's property management service are urged to buy both packages.
 Here are some of the properties currently offered at Tamarack:
 * The six-story Members Lodge, under construction, will have 41 condominium units (with one to three bedrooms), of which 27 units are for sale. Properties range from a 525-square-foot studio to a 2,100-square-foot penthouse with three bedrooms. All come fully furnished, feature knotty-alder woodwork, granite countertops and views of Lake Cascade or the slopes. Downstairs in the lodge will be restaurants, ski lockers and the golf pro shop. Prices range from $299,000 to $1.3 million. 
 * Town houses on Golden Bar Court are slopeside duplexes with one to three bedrooms and two to three bathrooms, and range from 955 square feet to 1,593 square feet. These have granite countertops, wood-burning fireplaces and hardwood floors. Prices range from $399,000 to $750,000. A private hot tub is another $12,000. 
 * Two-story chalets with 20-foot exposed-beam ceilings, wraparound decks, granite countertops, wood floors and outdoor stone fireplaces are $899,000 to $1.1 million. They range from 1,818 to 2,800 square feet and come with three to four bedrooms and three to four baths. 
 * ''Estate lots'' are available to buyers who want to build a custom home; the lots are a half acre to one and a half acres. Houses must be more than 2,800 square feet and no larger than 12,000 square feet. (Resort officials consider anything larger an ''environmental waste.'') Builders must obtain a county construction permit and approval from a design review board at the resort, which wants only ''mountain-style architecture,'' meaning no Mediterranean villas. Lots are $480,000 to $880,000. TIM NEVILLE


GRAPHIC: Photos: MONEY MAN -- Jean-Pierre Boespflug has at least $28 million invested in Tamarack.
SKI IN, SKI OUT -- A chalet sits right beside a new chairlift at Tamarack.
NEW TRAILS -- Skiers on the slopes Dec. 15 when Tamarack opened for its first season. Temporary canvas buildings, right, house skier services and restaurants at the base, where 34 stone and wood buildings are planned. (Photographs by Chad Case)
UNDER CONSTRUCTION -- Tamarack plans to offer several types of housing. (Photo by Chad Case for The New York Times) (pg. F2)
IDAHO -- Day One at Tamarack, the country's newest ski mountain. (Photo by Chad Case for The New York Times)
 TOP OF THE WORLD -- The Summit Express chairlift puts skiiers above the clouds at the new Tamarack resort in Idaho. Older resorts like Crested Butte, Colo., and Mount Washington, N.H., are updating themselves this season. (Photo by Chad Case for The New York Times)(pg. F1)Map of Idaho highlighting the location of the Tamarack resort. (pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); GOLF (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (71%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); CATERING SERVICES (67%); GOVERNORS (65%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (53%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) Skiing; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: Tamarack Resort (Idaho)

PERSON: DIRK KEMPTHORNE (51%) Tim Neville

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mccall (Idaho); Idaho

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



672 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: Gaining Ground on the Wage Front

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Ever since the 2001 recession sent the economy into a prolonged period of weak hiring, hundreds of thousands of men and women have gone through some variation of Tom and Marie DeSisto's experience.
 Concerned that he might be laid off as Verizon cut staff, Mr. DeSisto, 54, accepted an early retirement package, giving up a manager's salary of more than $100,000 a year. Now he earns half that as a high school math teacher in Waltham, Mass., while Mrs. DeSisto, 50, brings home $63,000 as the supervisor of nurses in the same school district. 
 In contrast to her husband's downsized pay, Mrs. DeSisto's salary has risen 75 percent over the last five years as she moved from a nursing job in Framingham, another Boston suburb, to responsibility as supervisor for a growing staff of school nurses in Waltham. 
 That pattern of improving employment prospects and rising wages for women -- while many men stood still or got hurt -- has done as much if not more than class-action lawsuits, quotas and equal opportunity laws to narrow the gap between men's and women's pay.
 Working women now earn just over 80 percent of what men do, up from 62 percent 25 years ago, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. It turns out that almost half of that gap closed during two comparatively short periods of relatively hard times, totaling about six years. Those periods correspond with the recessions and cutbacks in the work force that marked the opening years of the last decade and the current one.
 The gains for women have stuck. As the economy improved in the second half of the 1990's, women did not continue to move ahead, but they held their own, chiefly because so many men, like Mr. DeSisto, failed to get back into the work force at the same pay levels as before.
 ''Everyone's image of how they wanted to close the gender gap was for women to catch up with men in pay, without men going backward,'' said Rebecca M. Blank, dean of the University of Michigan's School of Public Policy. ''Now it is clear that for substantial groups of people in the labor market, that is not how it is closing.''
 The dynamics reflect profound shifts in the economy. Men are more vulnerable than women to layoffs, mainly because they predominate in industries that are walloped in downturns, particularly manufacturing. Then, too, the large influx of nonworking women into low-wage jobs in the 1990's, caused in part by the overhaul of welfare, depressed the median wage of women as a whole. That influx has stopped, and the median wage has responded by rising.
 College-educated women, having entered the labor force in large numbers for nearly 30 years, are showing up everywhere now, which gives employers the opportunity to fill more executive, administrative and professional jobs with well-trained and hardworking women who are paid well, but often not as well as men in those jobs. 
 Still, as women take these upper-end jobs in growing numbers, the pay level of women as a whole is pulled up. Observing this phenomenon, Francine Blau, a labor economist at Cornell University, declares that the wage gap is closing mainly because of ''the rising educational attainment of women who work full time.''
 That may be an important ingredient, but wage data collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that the closing of the gap in pay between men and women accelerated in the so-called jobless recoveries, when employers cut staff or froze hiring during recessions and continued to do so into the ensuing economic upswings.
 Americans have experienced two jobless recoveries since World War II. The second may still be in progress, although recent evidence suggests it could finally be yielding to an improving job market. Before the first, in the early 1990's, recessions invariably ended in hiring surges that benefited both men and women and in roughly equal fashion. 
 For some specialists, like Betty Spence, president of the National Association of Female Executives, the fact that women still earn lower pay offers an opportunity to employers bent on cutting labor costs. ''Corporations tend to lop off the highly paid guy at the top,'' she said, ''and replace him with a woman who is just as competent and is willing to work just as hard for less pay.''
 For others, like Barbara R. Bergmann, a labor economist at American University in Washington, the spectacle of women gaining ground in harder times is vivid evidence that most occupations are still largely segregated by sex and that men's occupations, while often higher paying, are also more vulnerable to business cycles. 
 Men, for example, still hold most of the best-paying jobs in manufacturing, which has been particularly hard hit in recent years. Women, by contrast, are ensconced in white-collar occupations that tend to ride out job cuts almost untouched. These include education, health care and civil service employment. 
 Ms. Bergmann recognizes that this backdoor route to wage equality may not be the most desirable path. ''We would prefer that pay converge in a strong economy,'' she said, ''but however it happens, we should be happy it is happening.''
 Men who work full time still earn nearly 20 percent more than women who do. The score is $693 in median weekly pay, adjusted for inflation, to $560 for women, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. The median means that half of the workers in each sex earn more and half earn less. 
 The current $133 weekly gap has narrowed from $260 in 1979. But $62 of that progress, or 47 percent, has been compressed into the two periods of stepped-up labor cost-cutting that started with the 1990-1991 and the 2001 recessions.
 In the latest episode, total employment has not yet risen back to its prerecession level. The economy is reviving, but hiring has not improved as much. Employers appear to be still engaging in what David H. Autor, an economist at Harvard University, calls ''the cleansing effects of hard times.''
 Men's pay during these cleansings has stagnated or dropped, while women's pay has continued to rise, although more slowly than in good times. Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute, argues that men's pay would still be 25 percent higher than women's, as it was in 2000, if men's pay had continued to grow at the 1995-to-2000 pace, when the economy boomed and employers hired in droves.
 That prosperous five-year stretch was no help at all in closing the wage gap. These were years in which high-technology companies and dot-coms prospered, and they were big employers of well-paid men, whose high wages pulled up the median for their group. 
 Just as this was happening, women's pay was held down. The surge in hiring brought thousands of women from welfare into low-wage jobs, and their presence became a drag on the median wage of women. The wage gap even began to widen a bit, but starting in 1998 manufacturing jobs disappeared in large numbers, and that blow to well-paid blue-collar men pushed down the median pay of all men. 
 The convergence in pay, of course, also reflects the underlying achievement of women in recent years. They are graduating from college in greater numbers than men and pushing into high-end occupations once dominated by men. The share of women, for example, in ''executive, administrative and managerial occupations,'' as the labor bureau calls this category, is more than 46 percent today, up from 40 percent in 1990 and 32 percent in 1983. And there are similar or even greater gains in various administrative and professional ranks. 
 Women are also gradually pushing into high-paid blue-collar occupations, despite continued sexual segregation, and each step forward helps to lift the median pay of women vis-a-vis men. 
 Volvo Trucks North America, for example, is one of the few manufacturing companies that is hiring these days, adding 1,117 people this year at plants in Pennsylvania, Virginia and Maryland. 
 Enough of these hires are women to lift their presence on the assembly lines, where union wages apply, to 15 percent from 13 percent in 2003, the company says. 
 Driving tractor-trailers on long hauls across the country is another bastion of high-paid men's work that women have been trickling into lately. 
 Of the 3,800 drivers at C.R. England, for example, 10 percent are women, up from zero in the 1980's, said Dean England, chief operating officer of the family-owned company based in Salt Lake City.
 Not many people are able to adjust to the rigors of a lifestyle that keeps them on the road for weeks at a time, Mr. England said. The driver turnover rate at his company is 100 percent a year, but for those who can handle it -- men and women -- the pay averages $40,000. 
 ''They are mostly middle-aged women,'' Mr. England said, ''and they come to us because they are sick of having to work so hard at service jobs that pay only $10 an hour.'' 
 As for the DeSistos in the Boston suburbs, Marie is working her way up the pay scale while her husband, Tom, is starting a new career as a high school math teacher earning $50,000, half his old pay.
 ''I'm teaching the basics at the start, algebra and geometry, moving along with the kids,'' he said. ''You work with freshmen and sophomores and as the years go by, you teach them trig and higher math.''
 Mr. DeSisto, a civil engineer, had 30 years at Verizon and its predecessors, Bell Atlantic and before that, AT&T. He had expected to work at Verizon into his 60's. But management, bent on downsizing, offered enhanced early retirement packages, with the clear message, Mr. DeSisto said, that layoffs would ensue if the retirement offer was undersubscribed.
 It was not. Last year, 21,600 people took early retirement at Verizon, a number of them men like Mr. DeSisto with enough tenure to qualify for lump sum pension payouts in the high six figures. After nine months of unemployment, he took the teaching job in the school system that employs his wife.
 Mrs. DeSisto went back to work as a nurse 11 years ago, when the youngest of the DeSistos' three children was 10, working first in the Framingham schools where her salary rose in time to $36,000 -- and then to $56,000 when she shifted to the supervisor's job in Waltham five years ago.
 Her salary has risen annually ever since, partly through raises but also in recognition of a recently earned master's degree in nursing and business administration. 
 But what truly drives the expansion of school nursing and the rising pay, in her view, is the growing incidence of health problems among students, now that more disabled and ailing children are accepted into the public schools. Her staff has expanded to 16 nurses from 9 when she arrived.
 ''I like to hire nurses with master's degrees and experience,'' she said. ''They are in buildings where they are the only ones with medical knowledge.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marie DeSisto's salary has risen 75 percent over the last five years. Since her husband, Tom, took early retirement, his has fallen by about half. They work in Waltham, Mass., where he is now a high school math teacher and she is a supervisor of nurses. (Photo by Michael Dwyer for The New York Times)Chart: ''Making More''Although men still earn more than women do, men's wages have stagnated since 2001, while women's pay has moved up.Graph shows the median weekly earnings since 1980.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economy.com
Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Narrowing the Gap''The gap in pay between men and women has shrunk faster in hard times.Graphs shows difference in median weekly earnings between men and women since 1980.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
Economy.com
 Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); STATISTICS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (52%); LITIGATION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



673 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: MINNESOTA SUES CAPITAL ONE OVER CREDIT CARD ADS

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Minnesota's attorney general sued Capital One Bank yesterday over ads for its ''no hassle'' credit card, which promote a fixed interest rate of 4.99 percent. Customers who miss a payment deadline or exceed their credit limit can end up with interest rates as high as 27 percent, the attorney general, Mike Hatch, said at a news conference. About 40 percent of the credit card's users will be paying higher interest rates within two years, he said. ''It's very clear that these ads are designed for the sole purpose of getting people to believe that the rate is fixed and it can't change,'' Hatch said. A spokeswoman for Capital One, said the company, based in McLean, Va., has cooperated with the attorney general's investigation.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (94%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



674 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Strong Dollar in Canada Is Squeezing Its Economy

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Dec. 30 

 BODY:
Canadian economists were right about one thing: A year ago when they were looking ahead, most of them predicted the Canadian dollar would strengthen against its American counterpart.
 But their forecasts fell short of the mark. Unfortunately for Canada's export-based economy, the Canadian dollar did not rise by the 3 percent to 5 percent most economists had predicted. By November, it had posted a 15 percent gain, a 12-year high, and begun to crimp Canada's long run of export growth and factory expansion. 
 While the Canadian dollar has dropped slightly since that peak, few Canadian economists think its rise, which makes the country's exports more expensive to Americans, and the problems for Canada's economy that flow from it, are over.
 ''It's going to be a difficult grind in the first half of next year,'' said Derek Burleton, a senior economist with the Toronto-Dominion Bank. ''Everyone's in agreement that it's not going to be a boom period for the Canadian economy.'' From annual growth of 2.7 percent this year, he expects an annual rate of 2 percent to 2.5 percent for the first half of 2005.
 Unlike the United States, Canada has had an enviable economic run in recent years. Among other things, it has had only two quarters of contraction in 12 years -- one after the Sept. 11 attacks and the other after the SARS outbreak in Toronto. But with exports accounting for about 40 percent of the country's gross domestic product and the overwhelming majority of them heading to the United States, the rise in the Canadian dollar means those good times may be squeezed. 
 Few economists dispute that the low Canadian dollar from the mid-1990's helped lure from the United States manufacturing jobs and employment in service areas like call centers. ''In some cases America's pain has been Canada's gain,'' Michael J. Gregory, the senior economist at the Bank of Montreal's BMO Nesbitt Burns unit in Toronto.
 Several factors underlie the rise in the Canadian dollar. Many Canadian provinces, as well as the federal government in Ottawa, are now posting budget surpluses. Long-running trade surpluses and rising commodity prices have helped push the currency up, too.
 But economists overwhelmingly agree that the Canadian dollar's rise is mostly the result of a tumble in the American dollar. ''All the other factors were marginal in the face of the U.S. dollar's weakening,'' said Andrew Pyle, a senior economist and vice president at Scotia Capital, a unit of the Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.
 Some analysts have criticized the Bank of Canada and its governor, David Dodge, for making a bad situation worse. While the public's concern about the Canadian dollar's rise began to grow in the late summer, the central bank was more concerned that Canada's economy might overheat. To minimize the risk of inflation, the Bank of Canada raised its critical lending rate by 25 basis points in September and again in October. Both increases sparked immediate increases in the Canadian dollar's value.
 It took weak growth and soft manufacturing employment in November for the Bank of Canada to acknowledge that the Canadian dollar's high value had become a drag on the economy. Early this month, the bank left rates unchanged.
 Jim Stanford, a economist for the Canadian Auto Workers union in Toronto, argued in a report released earlier this month that Mr. Dodge should have made the Canadian dollar's rise his priority long ago.
 ''If there is one central bank in the world that should be acutely concerned with the appreciation of its currency against the U.S. dollar, it should be Canada's,'' Mr. Stanford wrote. ''Our currency has appreciated more against the U.S. dollar in the last two years than any other major U.S. trading partner, and our economy is far more dependent on exports to the U.S. than any other country in the world.''
 In his study, Mr. Stanford estimated that if the Canadian dollar stabilized at about 85 American cents, Canadian manufacturers would shed about 400,000 jobs over the next two years. The Canadian dollar traded at 82.597 American cents Thursday.
 An 85-cent Canadian dollar is not an unrealistic expectation. Mr. Pyle at Scotia Capital, for example, expects the exchange rate to hover between 85 and 90 cents in 2005. A minority of Canadian economists believe that a collapse of the United States dollar might even lead to parity between the two currencies.
 With the whopping budget and trade deficits in the United States, the Canadian currency may well continue its march higher into the new year. Asked if the Canadian dollar could pass 90 American cents, Mr. Pyle said, ''It would be a mistake to rule anything out in this currency market in 2005.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Critics of David Dodge, the governor for the Bank of Canada, say the bank's policies were late in addressing the Canadian dollar's surge. (Photo by Simon Hayter/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BUDGETS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SARS (50%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; International Trade and World Market; Credit; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (81%); BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (80%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (69%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (55%); BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of Canada

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (81%); BMO (NYSE) (81%); BNS (TSX) (80%); BNS (NYSE) (80%); TD (TSX) (69%); TD (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (80%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%)

PERSON: David Dodge; Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (59%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



675 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Government Seeks Control Of Pilot Fund

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The government moved in federal court yesterday to take over the pension fund for United Airlines' pilots, an unusual step that it said was needed to prevent the airline and the pilots' union from exploiting the federal pension-insurance program.
 The union that represents the pilots at United questioned the government's motives and warned that it would ''take every lawful action necessary to protect the interests of the United pilots'' in the pension dispute.
 In a complaint filed in Federal District Court in Chicago, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation asked the court to terminate the plan ''as soon as practicable, but in no event later than Dec. 31, 2004.'' United and its pilots had hoped to keep the plan going until May, then terminate it. That would give greater coverage to the active pilots, the agency said, but cause the government's losses ''to increase unreasonably.'' 
 The pension agency said in a separate statement that a delay would add $140 million to its costs in taking over the plan and divert resources that United might better use to keep its other employees' pension plans afloat. United, the operating unit of the UAL Corporation, stopped making its mandatory contributions to those plans in July. The affected unions and a court-appointed independent trustee have been fighting separately in bankruptcy court to make United contribute the money.
 The pension agency's legal action has no effect on those other pension plans. 
 Virtually all companies that default on their pension obligations are bankrupt, as United is, and in most cases they relinquish their insolvent plans willingly. But in some cases, the companies have joined ranks with unions and fought bitter court battles to terminate their pension plans on their own terms. Often, the issue is the level of federal insurance coverage, as it is in this case.
 United said in a statement yesterday that it was still studying its legal options. Earlier this month, however, it reached an agreement with its pilots' union in which it promised to oppose any effort to terminate the pension plan ahead of the pilots' preferred date, May 2005. The airline has legal standing to oppose the government's move; the union does not.
 In its statement, United said that the pilots' pension plan had to be terminated in any case and that it would also have to terminate its other three big employee pension plans and negotiate an additional $725 million in labor cost savings to emerge from bankruptcy. Despite these grim warnings, the stock of United's corporate parent, UAL, rose more than 11 percent yesterday, closing near the day's high of $1.38 a share in over-the-counter trading.
 The branch of the Air Line Pilots Association that represents United's pilots issued a much more militant statement yesterday evening. 
 ''As the P.B.G.C. is well aware, there are no grounds for the termination of the pilot pension plan,'' the statement said. If United does oppose immediate termination, it added, the process would move to bankruptcy court, which would end the plan only if it determines that the airline could not survive otherwise. 
 Many analysts think that United cannot, in fact, go forward as a business without shedding its pension plans, but obtaining such a finding by the bankruptcy judge would probably require a long and costly evidentiary process, something the government had hoped to avoid.
 The pilots' union also expressed concern that the government intended ''to single out the pilot group for punitive and vindictive treatment in the United bankruptcy.'' Its agreement with the airline, which has not yet been ratified by it members, calls for United to terminate all its other employees' pension plans if it terminates the pilots' plan. This requirement is an attempt to avoid an outcome like the one at US Airways. The pilots' plan at that airline was terminated to help it emerge from bankruptcy, but the other employee pension plans remained intact, and their costs helped push US Airways into a second bankruptcy. 
 ''The pilots of United Airlines are critical to the reorganization of this company and by far have sacrificed the most to save the airline,'' the statement said. ''We demand to be recognized and compensated for our unique contributions.'' 
 The government calculates that United has promised its pilots pensions worth $5.7 billion but that the pension plan has just $2.8 billion in assets. United has put $55 million into the plan since 1996. 
 Of the $2.9 billion shortfall, the pension agency said it would shoulder $1.4 billion by taking over some of the benefits for the 14,000 participating pilots. 
 The remaining $1.5 billion will be borne by the pilots as reductions in their benefits. The government's pension insurance is limited, and many pilots have earned more than the maximum coverage.
 The pilots will bear the losses differently depending on their age, years of service and other factors. The oldest, who have either retired or been eligible to retire for at least three years, may be able to get more coverage than the government's basic guarantees. This is because of rules that shift some of a defunct pension plan's assets toward retirement-age participants when the government takes over a plan. Just how much of a boon this will be for United's retirees is difficult to predict, though, because the amount of additional coverage depends on the makeup of an individual plan and its solvency.
 United's younger, active pilots stand to lose a larger portion of their anticipated benefits. But United has agreed with the pilots' union to compensate them for their losses by granting them $550 million in notes, convertible to new stock after reorganization, and making larger contributions to a separate retirement plan that is not structured as a traditional, defined-benefit pension plan. 
 Those terms were reached about two weeks ago, as part of the same agreement in which the airline and union intended to postpone termination of the pension plan until May. The government's legal complaint asked only that the court terminate the pilots' plan immediately and did not address any of the agreement's other terms. But a spokesman for the pension agency said the government planned to file a separate motion in bankruptcy court by today opposing the pledges of convertible notes and enriched retirement plan to the active pilots. The agency does not want to set a precedent that would allow companies to dump their current pension obligations on the government and then set up new plans for their workers. 
 Delaying the pension termination until May would have been worth tens of millions of dollars to United's active pilots. They would have been able to keep building up their benefits during that time, and the ceiling on insurance coverage would have been higher because the pension agency raises its limits every year to account for inflation. 
 In addition, the pilots would have achieved the maximum insurance coverage for their most recent pension increase, which was granted as of April 2000. Whenever a company increases the terms of a pension plan, the government phases in its corresponding insurance coverage over five years to keep troubled companies from promising big increases, then defaulting and leaving the government to pick up the tab. By waiting to terminate the plan until May, United and the pilots hoped to have completed the phase-in period.
 Meanwhile, however, United would be paying more than $100 million in benefits to existing retirees, probably without replenishing the money. That would lower the funded level of the plan, to the detriment of pilots who had reached retirement age and whose ability to exceed the insurance limits depends on the amount in the plan at termination. 
 Bradley D. Belt, the executive director of the pension agency, said the agency was operating with a record deficit and ''must be vigilant in guarding against unnecessary losses.'' 
 ''I hope the plight of the participants in airline pension plans puts an exclamation point on the need for Congress to strengthen the funding rules for defined benefit pension plans,'' Mr. Belt added. 
 The Bush administration is expected to issue a set of proposals for shoring up the pension system early in the new year.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Strike Call Authorized
 CHICAGO, Dec. 30 (Reuters) -- Flight attendants at the UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, authorized their union to call a strike if the carrier terminates their collective bargaining agreement, the union said on Thursday. 
 Of the eligible voters, 88 percent voted in favor of striking, according to a statement from the union, the Association of Flight Attendants. The move sets the stage for a work stoppage if the airline repeals a collective bargaining agreement with the union. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bradley D. Belt, head of the federal pension agency, said it was operating with a record deficit. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (71%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



676 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

S.E.C. Seeks Information From a Unit of Berkshire
Berkshire Hathaway, the company controlled by the billionaire Warren E. Buffett, said that federal regulators had requested information from its General Re insurance unit about the sale of products that can be used to smooth earnings.
 The company is the seventh insurer to have its practices examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. But it is the first time Berkshire's insurance unit, long seen to reflect the professional integrity advocated by Mr. Buffett, has been drawn into the inquiry. [Page C3.]

Social Security Debate Set to Start
President Bush and Congress are preparing for a debate over the future of Social Security, whose solvency depends not only on factors including productivity, inflation and birth rates but also on how long beneficiaries will be living. And many population experts believe that life expectancy will increase rapidly in the 21st century, making the financial problems of Social Security even worse. [A1.]

Best Buy Dropping Ernst & Young
Best Buy will stop using Ernst & Young as its auditor in February because of an agreement it had with a former board member who served on the retailer's audit committee.[C3.]

I.B.M. PC Unit Was Not Profitable
I.B.M., which is selling its personal computer business to the Lenovo Group of China, said that division has not made a profit for three and a half years. [C4.]

Judge Halts Import Curbs
A federal judge temporarily barred the United States from imposing some curbs on imports of textiles and clothing from China. United States quotas on the textile trade, imposed 40 years ago, are set to expire on Saturday, ending a system that limited trade in 2,400 items, including cotton shirts and denim. [C4.]

Russia to Control Yukos Unit
Russia's minister of industry and energy, Viktor B. Khristenko, left, said the controlling stake in a subsidiary of the oil company Yukos, Yuganskneftegaz, would be transferred to a newly created state company and would not become part of the merger between Gazprom and Rosneft. That merger would be completed next month, he said, but the subsidiary would not ''be among the consolidated assets.'' [World Business, Section W.]

Report on Prozac Documents
The British Medical Journal said it had sent documents to American health regulators that it said appear to suggest a link between Prozac and suicidal behavior. [C5.]

Stocks Mixed in Quiet Trading
Stocks were mixed in a listless session. The Dow Jones industrials fell 28.89 points, to 10,800.30. The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 0.1 of a point, to 1,213.55, and the Nasdaq composite gained 1.34 points, to 2,178.34. [C5.]

Manufacturing Growth Slows
The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said that its business barometer declined to 61.2 this month, from 65.2 in November, a sign of slower growth in manufacturing. In a separate report, the Labor Department said that the number of Americans filing initial unemployment claims fell unexpectedly last week. [C2.]

Oracle Fires 4 PeopleSoft Officials
Oracle fired PeopleSoft's co-president, Kevin T. Parker, and three other top executives, a day after assuming control of the software maker in a $10.3 billion takeover. [C5.]

Hormel Buys Clougherty Packing
Hormel Foods acquired Clougherty Packing for $186 million, adding Dodger Dog hot dogs sold in Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles to its product line. [C3.]

U.S. Bond Market to Close Early
The United States bond market will close at 2 p.m. today in advance of New Year's holiday. The stock markets will have regular trading hours today.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,800.30 down 28.89Nasdaq composite -- 2,178.34 up 1.3410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.25% down 0.07The euro -- $1.3648 up 0.0050The dollar -- 102.97 yen down 0.86Graph shows Berkshire Hathaway share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MERGERS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); TEXTILES (86%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (84%); INSURANCE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); AUDITS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); RETAILERS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); JUDGES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (81%); OAO GAZPROM (63%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); LENOVO GROUP LTD (54%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); 0992 (HKSE) (54%); ROSN (RTS) (53%); ROSN (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (88%); VIKTOR KHRISTENKO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



677 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 870 words

PERSON: JAMES ROGERS

HEADLINE: Advocacy Holds Its Breath, Then Forges Ahead

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
THIS year, James Rogers has needed all the strength he could muster. As president of the union representing Legal Aid Society staff lawyers, he has been immersed in intense negotiations to keep the main legal provider for New York City's poor from bankruptcy.
 Mr. Rogers is a fighter, though. This explains the painted canvas of the Tibetan ''Wrath of God'' and a drawing of a noble Seminole Indian chief in his SoHo office. ''We're trying to surround ourselves with strong figures,'' says Mr. Rogers, 40, who worked as a criminal defense lawyer in Legal Aid's Bronx office before he was elected to the union presidency two years ago. 
 There are also photographs of a zonked-out-looking Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead on his computer screensaver and on his bookshelf. It turns out that Mr. Rogers is the lead guitarist in a folk-rock band with two other lawyers.
 In February, Mr. Rogers was stunned to learn, at a Legal Aid meeting, of the magnitude of the fiscal crisis facing the 800 staff lawyers he represents at the nonprofit agency. There were huge operating deficits and no credit or cash to deal with the debts. At stake was the organization's survival. 
 ''I had no idea,'' Mr. Rogers says. ''None of the documents we had gotten during bargaining indicated the depth of the problem.''
 Overnight, Mr. Rogers's job description as president of the Association of Legal Aid Attorneys, Local 2325 of the United Autoworkers, shifted from the routine tasks of handling lawyers' grievances to providing life support for Legal Aid. ''That became a full-time job,'' he says.
 But one morning this week, Mr. Rogers afforded a huge smile. In negotiations concluded this month, Legal Aid reached a deal to stave off bankruptcy after financial mismanagement had brought it to the brink of collapse. The agency settled with creditors, negotiated budget cuts with employees and received an unusual $9 million donation from dozens of private law firms. It means the country's oldest and largest defense group for the indigent will stay in business.
 For Mr. Rogers, who lobbied politicians in New York and Albany and galvanized the support of labor, it means he can get some rest and perhaps strum on that guitar in his office closet.
 ''I was definitely scared,'' he says. ''When I saw it was just as possible that Legal Aid could disintegrate as well as survive, I definitely stopped sleeping at night. If it didn't survive, legal services to the poor would have been fragmented with lots of small groups that, taken together, couldn't do what we do.''
 MR. ROGERS blames the mess on severe government funding cuts over a decade and mismanagement. In a long conversation, he barely misses a breath without mentioning how Legal Aid lawyers have paid the price.
 During the financial troubles, he says, caseloads have reached a record high of 85 to 120 per criminal defense lawyer, although the city budgeted for 65 per lawyer in the current fiscal year. Lawyers have a starting salary of $42,000. As part of the recent deal, Legal Aid lawyers have agreed to cuts in their pension and health care benefits.
 ''People are barely getting by, but they made a decision to really reach into their pockets so Legal Aid could survive,'' he says.
 Mr. Rogers says the lawyers stay with Legal Aid for an average of 10 years, because their commitment to social justice outweighs their drive for the big money. That was the case for him. Raised in Old Westbury, on Long Island, the son of a social worker and a car dealer, he protested against the Shoreham nuclear plant as a high school student. While studying at Syracuse University, he campaigned for the institution's divestment from business in South Africa. After graduating from Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in Manhattan, he did pro bono work at the firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson to stop the repatriation of Haitian refugees. In 1993, he settled at Legal Aid, where he tried cases for nearly a decade in the Bronx.
 He says his style at the union is no different from what it was when he stood before Bronx juries. ''I just like to be direct and complete and an advocate,'' he says.
 He has short curly brown hair and an impish face that lights up when he mentions his daughter, Ella, 5, with whom he looks forward to spending more time. He is married to Susan Light, a Legal Aid lawyer. They live on the Upper West Side.
 Now that the fiscal crisis has been averted, he hopes Legal Aid can return to its agenda. Did you know, he asks, that most Legal Aid lawyers have juvenile caseloads of 300 children at any given time? ''It's an absolute disregard for victimized children by the state to fund us in a way that keeps our caseloads so high,'' he says.
 He digs into his pocket to hold up a MetroCard. Did you know, he asks, that people who steal a free ride using bent MetroCards are being arrested and charged with crimes that lead to substantial jail time? ''It's not the kids on the Upper East Side this is happening to. You know what I'm saying.'' 
 His voice grows indignant as he lists a litany of instances in which he says prosecutors have erred on the side of overkill. ''Bringing these issues to the light of day is really the job of this union,'' he says. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: JAMES ROGERS (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (61%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (61%); BUDGET CUTS (61%) Legal Aid for the Poor; Labor; Fringe Benefits; Biographical Information; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Bankruptcies; Medicine and Health; Legal Aid for the Poor; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (91%) Legal Aid Society

JAMES E ROGERS (93%) Lynda Richardson; James Rogers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (72%) New York City; New York City

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004



678 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Price of Bush Party Is Too Rich for Some

BYLINE: By GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30 

 BODY:
Planners for President Bush's inauguration next month have scheduled a full lineup of exclusive parties and receptions for top Republican fund-raisers. But some of those V.I.P.'s say the perks come with a price tag they cannot afford.
 Attending the entire slate of events during the three days of inauguration festivities could easily top $10,000 in tickets and other expenses for a fund-raiser bringing a spouse or guest. Some who helped bankroll the president's campaign, particularly young fund-raisers or those participating for the first time, are looking for ways to economize or are just planning to skip official events entirely. 
 ''I still don't know what to do for the inauguration because of costs,'' said Bradley D. Wine, a 34-year-old Washington lawyer and first-time fund-raiser who brought in at least $100,000 for the Bush campaign. ''I'll either get together with folks who are celebrating independent of the official events or observe from the sidelines.''
 The inauguration package being offered to top Bush and Republican Party fund-raisers asks for up to $2,500 per person, though both the fee and the events vary depending on how much people raised, according to a Web page run by LogiCom Project Management, the company handling the events and travel arrangements.
 The money covers admission to the Jan. 20 swearing-in, the parade, a black-tie ball and special events in Washington landmarks like the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, the Willard InterContinental Hotel and the Corcoran Gallery of Art. Another $2,500 per person is required for admission to one of three candlelight dinners at which the president and vice president will appear the evening before the inauguration. And, of course, there are airfare, hotel and other travel expenses.
 That will be no problem for many of Mr. Bush's wealthier fund-raisers. But the number of Republicans who raised six figures for the president doubled in this year's campaign, to about 550, in part because the campaign actively courted young professionals. 
 Roughly 90 people under age 40 each raised at least $50,000 for Mr. Bush. Though they were effective fund-raisers, some say they cannot afford to spend endless amounts on politics. 
 ''I worked hard on this and I want to celebrate like everyone else, but at a certain point you have to draw the line,'' Mr. Wine said. ''I don't know that that's where we want to invest our money right now.''
 At Mr. Bush's first inauguration, fund-raisers also had to pay for admission to some parties and receptions but were not offered a package of events at a set price, inauguration officials said. With so many people on Mr. Bush's list of six-figure fund-raisers, organizers said the packages were an efficient way to accommodate them. 
 ''It will certainly cost those people more this time than last time,'' said Fred Meyer, who was chairman of the executive committee for the last inauguration.
 The political environment was different during the 2000 campaign, when political parties were raising unlimited soft-money contributions from wealthy donors who required care and feeding, Mr. Meyer said. New laws have banned those contributions. 
 Fund-raisers are not required to attend the special parties or stay at fancy hotels, of course. Planners note that they can decline the inauguration packages and stay at less expensive hotels.
 ''People have the option of coming to the inauguration and attending the events that are free of charge or buying tickets a la carte,'' said Steve Schmidt, communications director for the Presidential Inaugural Committee.
 Indeed, many fund-raisers are cutting costs. Justin J. Sayfie, a 36-year-old Florida lawyer who raised at least $200,000 for Mr. Bush, said that he sought a less expensive hotel than was offered through LogiCom and was having his law firm pay part of his travel costs.
 ''It's the first time that we get to participate so we are kind of excited,'' Mr. Sayfie said. ''It's not cheap, but it's a unique opportunity. I've been working 18 months to see this day.''
 He is also skipping the $2,500 candlelight dinner. ''I'd like to go,'' he said, ''but it's a stretch as it is.''
 Slater Bayliss, a 28-year-old Florida lawyer who raised at least $50,000, said he was looking forward to the inauguration, which he called a ''once- or twice-in-a-lifetime thing.'' But he is using a frequent flyer ticket to get to Washington and is likely to forgo the city's finer restaurants, and perhaps some inauguration events as well.
 ''I probably wont be eating at the Caucus Room,'' Mr. Bayliss said.
 The Presidential Inaugural Committee raised at least $8 million through last week toward a tab that could top $40 million. Most of the money is coming from wealthy individuals and corporations, which can contribute up to $250,000. In return, top inaugural donors get stacks of tickets to events and admission to a special lunch with the president. The money collected from fund-raisers by LogiCom, which has a contract with the Republican National Committee, will similarly be used to offset the costs of various inauguration festivities.
 Mr. Wine and other fund-raisers acknowledge that the events are expensive to produce and say they are not pointing fingers. But this is the second time this year that Republican fund-raisers have spoken out about the expense of attending political events. The Republican National Convention in New York drew complaints when fund-raisers were charged thousands of dollars to attend V.I.P. events.
 ''This is obviously becoming the norm,'' said Bruce Bialosky, a California accountant who raised at least $100,000 for Mr. Bush. Conditioned by the cost of the convention, Mr. Bialosky said he was ready when it came time to pay to attend the inauguration.
 ''It's the price of playing the game, I guess,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); POLITICS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (76%); LAWYERS (70%); AIR FARES (62%) United States Politics and Government; Inaugurations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Glen Justice

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004

 
