

201 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1918 words

HEADLINE: President's Economic Circle Keeps Tensions at a Simmer

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama was getting his daily economic briefing one recent morning when a fly distracted him. The president swatted and missed, just as the pest buzzed near the shoes of Lawrence H. Summers, the chief White House economic adviser. ''Couldn't you aim a little higher?'' deadpanned Christina D. Romer, the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
 Mrs. Romer was joking, she said in an interview, adding, ''There are only a few times that I felt like smacking Larry.'' Yet few laughed in the president's presence.
 If the Oval Office incident was meant as a lighthearted moment, it also exposed the underlying tensions that have gripped Mr. Obama's economic advisers as they have struggled with the gravest financial crisis since the Depression, according to several dozen interviews with administration officials and others familiar with the internal debates. 
 By all accounts, much of the tension derives from the president's choice of the brilliant but sometimes supercilious Mr. Summers to be the director of the National Economic Council, making him the policy impresario of the team. The widespread assumption, from Washington to Wall Street, was that the job would be Mr. Summers's way station until the president could name him chairman of the Federal Reserve when Ben S. Bernanke's term expires early next year. 
 But Mr. Bernanke's aggressive response to the crisis has so improved his reputation that people close to Mr. Obama increasingly suggest the president could well reappoint him in the interests of financial stability -- just as Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton retained Fed chiefs who had been picked by predecessors of the other party. 
 As for Mr. Summers, even as top administration officials acknowledge the occasional strains among economic advisers, they say the president is thrilled with the job Mr. Summers is doing in his current post.
 When Mr. Obama named his economic team last November, even some within his circle questioned whether Mr. Summers, given his prickly personality, could be an honest broker of other advisers' ideas, as National Economic Council directors are supposed to be. Mr. Summers also had made it clear that he wanted to be Treasury secretary again, as he was in the Clinton administration. 
 As messy as the process has sometimes been, officials say Mr. Summers and his colleagues have worked through their differences. Often arriving and leaving in the dark, sustained by coffee and the Diet Cokes that fill Mr. Summers's office refrigerator, they have produced in six months an array of economic rescue plans that would be daunting if spread over six years. With those, and the Fed's efforts, the economy shows signs of new life.
 Along the way, Mr. Summers has forcefully debated the Treasury secretary, his onetime protege Timothy F. Geithner, over what to do with troubled banks. He has clashed with Peter R. Orszag, the budget director, over fiscal and health policy issues. He has collided with Austan Goolsbee, an economist on the Council of Economic Advisers, over whether to rescue Chrysler. And he and Mrs. Romer have squabbled over how best to make the economic case for overhauling health care. 
 His argumentative style has contributed to delaying some actions, officials say, like the Treasury-led overhaul of the bank bailout program that was inherited from the Bush administration and an overhaul of the financial regulatory system, which is now expected later this month.
 The disagreements are only natural, White House officials say. The issues are big, and so are the personalities, as Mr. Obama intended. He has said he wanted advisers who would be teammates as well as rivals, long on experience and brainpower and able to air all sides of an issue to help him decide.
 ''You can't assemble a group of really brilliant people, and deal with some of the most complex problems in our lifetimes and not have disagreements,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior political strategist who, with the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, plays a big role in mediating among the economic advisers and helps shape the decisions. 
 The president ''invites debate but he doesn't tolerate factionalism. And ultimately everybody on the economic team knows that at the end of the day we're going to hold hands and jump together,'' Mr. Axelrod added.
 People familiar with the deliberations say that Mr. Summers has been more populist than they expected for a right-of-center economist, siding often with Mr. Obama's political advisers. That has given rise to speculation among colleagues, associates and banking representatives that Mr. Summers is trying to win the Fed seat.
 Mr. Summers, in an interview, dismissed such talk as coming from ''people who disagree with me.'' He added, ''The advice I give is based on determining the right course of economic action, recognizing all the political factors.''
 Some advisers complained that, under Mr. Summers, meetings became ''endless debating sessions,'' a phrase used separately by two aides who asked not to be named given the delicacy of internal matters. As Mr. Summers sees it, his penchant for debate -- he was a standout member of the debate team at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -- fits the job. 
 ''My approach in these things is to always be raising objections and concerns,'' he said, ''because if you haven't anticipated the objections and concerns, you haven't minimized risks.'' 
 Even colleagues who have tussled with Mr. Summers say the president was right to bring him in to the White House inner circle amid the global crisis.
 ''Larry Summers is one of the world's most brilliant economists,'' said Mr. Orszag, who along with Mr. Geithner, successfully resisted Mr. Summers's attempts early on to control their access to Mr. Obama. ''He enriches any discussion he participates in, which is particularly valuable given the complexity and importance of the challenges currently facing us.''
 Mr. Summers, the only top economic adviser with a West Wing office, sees the president more than the others and controls the daily economic briefings. By all accounts he has worked hard to disprove early talk that he would not be good at the job, even poking fun at himself. 
 Just after his 54th birthday on Nov. 30, when the new team was working in Mr. Obama's transition headquarters in Chicago, Mr. Geithner brought a cupcake and the group sang ''Happy Birthday.'' As they ended, Mr. Summers rang out, ''for he's an unpleasant fellow,'' instead of ''for he's a jolly good fellow.'' 
 Few issues have been as contentious as the effort to overhaul the bank bailout program. Mr. Summers left some colleagues believing that he favored nationalizing some big banks, as many liberals wanted. Insiders say that Mr. Geithner would counter that nationalizing banks might sound appealing politically but where would the government get the legions of bank managers it would need? And what would be the exit strategy? 
 In the interview, Mr. Summers denied that he favored nationalizing banks but acknowledged that he explored the idea so that the president had all options. At the time, the Treasury and the Fed were conducting ''stress tests'' of the big banks' books, and it was not clear that some banks would be judged viable. 
 ''Nationalization is a term that has become meaningless because people use it in different ways,'' he said. ''I certainly favored identifying every possibility and presenting every option to the president in response to possible contingencies.''
 Mutual acquaintances say that the longtime friendship between Mr. Summers and the 47-year-old Mr. Geithner has been strained, but that their relationship would be even worse were it not for Mr. Geithner's even temperament and his history with Mr. Summers. ''I am completely comfortable pushing back at him,'' Mr. Geithner said in an interview.
 ''Larry will come to any issue and say, well, here's all the 16 reasons why there's problems with that proposal. If he's got ideas, particularly if I think they won't work, I say to him, 'Well, why don't you make the case against it, Larry, because you're pretty good at making the case against anything.' ''
 But, Mr. Geithner said, that trait makes Mr. Summers a good director of the economic council because ''he is better than anybody else on the planet at framing the case for and against any particular issue and reducing something to a set of concrete options.''
 Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner have generally agreed that the government should not dictate executive pay and other management policies at companies receiving government aid. 
 Mr. Axelrod and other political advisers generally have taken the other side, joined by Austan Goolsbee, the former University of Chicago economist who was Mr. Obama's campaign adviser and now sits with Mrs. Romer on the Council of Economic Advisers. If taxpayers bail out companies, this group says, then the government should set tough conditions on pay and dividends.
 Mr. Goolsbee and Mr. Summers also clashed in March over whether to bail out Chrysler and ease its merger with Fiat, or to let the automaker fail. 
 Mr. Summers, along with Mr. Geithner and the political advisers, favored giving Chrysler a second chance. ''My judgment, and Tim's judgment, was that given all the equities involved, and given the potentially traumatic effects on confidence, that it was much better to try to save Chrysler if a reasonable merger agreement could be reached,'' he said.
 Mr. Goolsbee argued that rescuing the financial system was one thing, since credit is the economy's lifeblood, but the government should not run an auto company. Saving Chrysler, he added, could further harm General Motors, which stood to gain market share.
 The arguments became so heated that Mr. Summers stormed from one meeting, a witness said. While he later included Mr. Goolsbee's objections in a memorandum for Mr. Obama, he excluded Mr. Goolsbee from the decisive meeting with the president. 
 There, Mrs. Romer expressed the objections from the Council of Economic Advisers, but made a point of naming the absent Mr. Goolsbee. That prompted Mr. Obama to ask, ''Where is Austan?'' He had the aide summoned to state his case, in what some aides took as a rebuke to Mr. Summers. The discussion continued that evening, and Mr. Obama decided on the course Mr. Summers supported.
 Mrs. Romer, the only woman among the top advisers, said that Mr. Summers, as a fellow economist, had been ''incredibly inclusive'' and ''listens to the economic arguments.'' Their clashes have come when he takes a more political view.
 A recent example involved a report by Mrs. Romer, released last Tuesday, that analyzed the administration's economic case for overhauling the health care system. Mr. Summers pressed Mrs. Romer to make the argument that health care reforms could make American businesses more competitive globally, adding that it was among the political advisers' favorite ''talking points.'' 
 He did so again when Mrs. Romer outlined her final draft at a recent well-attended meeting. She cut him off, saying that some of his own staff agreed the point did not belong in the paper.
 ''I'm not going to put schlocky arguments in there,'' she said.
 ''I'm not making a schlocky argument,'' he replied.
 Mrs. Romer said later that the exchange was ''good-natured,'' no different than ''a typical seminar where I come from'' in academia. The point Mr. Summers sought was not in her paper on Tuesday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence H. Summers: Director, White House National Economic Council: Controls the daily economic briefings with President Obama. Has been more populist than expected, siding often with Mr. Obama's political advisers. But agreed with Mr. Geithner that the government should not dictate management policies at companies it is bailing out, a position generally not shared by the political advisers.
Timothy F. Geithner: Treasury Secretary: Clashed with Mr. Summers over how to deal with big banks burdened with bad assets. Mr. Summers denies that he ever favored nationalizing some banks but acknowledged he had explored the idea. ''I am completely comfortable pushing back at him,'' Mr. Geithner said of his longtime friend Mr. Summers.
Christina D. Romer: Chairwoman, Council of Economic Advisers: Has struggled to keep her group in the inner circle. Backed Mr. Goolsbee, a council colleague, when he clashed with Mr. Summers on the Chrysler rescue. Opposed Mr. Summers's proposed changes to a recent report that analyzed the administration's economic case for overhauling the health care system.
Austan D. Goolsbee: Member, Council of Economic Advisers: Favored setting tough conditions on pay and dividends at companies getting federal aid, unlike Mr. Summers or Mr. Geithner. Sparred with Mr. Summers on the Chrysler rescue
Mr. Summers included Mr. Goolsbee's objections in a memorandum, but excluded Mr. Goolsbee from the decisive meeting with the president.
Peter R. Orszag: Director, Office of Management and Budget: Dominates budget policy more than any previous budget director, after combating Mr. Summers's effort to control his channel to the president. The two men also have been rivals for control of health care policy.(A11) CHARTS: Skirmishes Among The Economic Advisers: Lawrence H. Summers, the only top economic adviser with a West Wing office, has often clashed with other top advisers.
 MAP: LOCATION OF EACH ADVISER'S OFFICE (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); BANK FAILURES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009



202 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Weighs Steps For Intercepting Korea Shipments

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration signaled Sunday that it was seeking a way to interdict, possibly with China's help, North Korean sea and air shipments suspected of carrying weapons or nuclear technology. 
 The administration also said it was examining whether there was a legal basis to reverse former President George W. Bush's decision last year to remove the North from a list of states that sponsor terrorism.
 The reference to interdictions -- preferably at ports or airfields in countries like China, but possibly involving riskier confrontations on the high seas -- was made by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. She was the highest-ranking official to talk publicly about such a potentially provocative step as a response to North Korea's second nuclear test, conducted two weeks ago.
 While Mrs. Clinton did not specifically mention assistance from China, other administration officials have been pressing Beijing to take such action under Chinese law. 
 Speaking on ABC's ''This Week,'' Mrs. Clinton said the United States feared that if the test and other recent actions by North Korea did not lead to ''strong action,'' there was a risk of ''an arms race in Northeast Asia'' -- an oblique reference to the concern that Japan would reverse its long-held ban against developing nuclear weapons.
 So far it is not clear how far the Chinese are willing to go to aid the United States in stopping North Korea's profitable trade in arms, the isolated country's most profitable export. But the American focus on interdiction demonstrates a new and potentially far tougher approach to North Korea than both President Clinton and Mr. Bush, in his second term, took as they tried unsuccessfully to reach deals that would ultimately lead North Korea to dismantle its nuclear arsenal. 
 Mr. Obama, aides say, has decided that he will not offer North Korea new incentives to dismantle the nuclear complex at Yongbyon that the North previously promised to abandon. 
 ''I'm tired of buying the same horse twice,'' Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates said last week while touring an antimissile site in Alaska that the Bush administration built to demonstrate its preparedness to destroy North Korean missiles headed toward the United States. (So far, the North Koreans have not successfully tested a missile of sufficient range to reach the United States, though there is evidence that they may be preparing for another test of their long-range Taepodong-2 missile.) 
 In France on Saturday, Mr. Obama referred to the same string of broken deals, telling reporters, ''I don't think there should be an assumption that we will simply continue down a path in which North Korea is constantly destabilizing the region and we just react in the same ways.'' He added, ''We are not intending to continue a policy of rewarding provocation.''
 While Mr. Obama was in the Middle East and Europe last week, several senior officials said the president's national security team had all but set aside the central assumption that guided American policy toward North Korea over the past 16 years and two presidencies: that the North would be willing to ultimately abandon its small arsenal of nuclear weapons in return for some combination of oil, nuclear power plants, money, food and guarantees that the United States would not topple its government, the world's last Stalinesque regime. 
 Now, after examining the still-inconclusive evidence about the results of North Korea's second nuclear test, the administration has come to different conclusions: that Pyonyang's top priority is to be recognized as a nuclear state, that it is unwilling to bargain away its weapons and that it sees tests as a way to help sell its nuclear technology.
 ''This entirely changes the dynamic of how you deal with them,'' a senior national security aide said. 
 While Mr. Obama is willing to reopen the six-party talks that Mr. Bush began -- the other participants are Japan, South Korea, Russia and China -- he has no intention, aides say, of offering new incentives to get the North to fulfill agreements from 1994, 2005 and 2008; all were recently renounced. 
 ''Clinton bought it once, Bush bought it again, and we're not going to buy it a third time,'' one of Mr. Obama's chief strategists said last week, referring to the Yongbyon plant, where the North reprocesses spent nuclear fuel into bomb-grade plutonium. 
 While some officials privately acknowledged that they would still like to roll back what one called North Korea's ''rudimentary'' nuclear capacity, a more realistic goal is to stop the country from devising a small weapon deliverable on a short-, medium- or long-range missile. 
 In conducting any interdictions, the United States could risk open confrontation with North Korea. That prospect -- and the likelihood of escalating conflict if the North resisted an inspection -- is why China has balked at American proposals for a resolution by the United Nations Security Council that would explicitly allow interceptions at sea. A previous Security Council resolution, passed after the North's first nuclear test, in 2006, allowed interdictions ''consistent with international law.'' But that term was never defined, and few of the provisions were enforced. 
 North Korea has repeatedly said it would regard any interdiction as an act of war, and officials in Washington have been trying to find ways to stop the shipments without a conflict. Late last week, James B. Steinberg, the deputy secretary of state, visited Beijing with a delegation of American officials, seeking ideas from China about sanctions, including financial pressure, that might force North Korea to change direction.
 ''The Chinese face a dilemma that they have always faced,'' a senior administration official said. ''They don't want North Korea to become a full nuclear weapons state. But they don't want to cause the state to collapse.'' They have been walking a fine line, the official said, taking a tough position against the North of late, but unwilling to publicly embrace steps that would put China in America's camp. 
 To counter the Chinese concern, Mr. Steinberg and his delegation argued to the Chinese that failing to crack down on North Korea would prompt reactions that Beijing would find deeply unsettling, including a greater American military presence in the region and more calls in Japan for that country to develop its own weapons. 
 Mrs. Clinton seemed to reflect this concern in the interview on Sunday. ''We will do everything we can to both interdict it and prevent it and shut off their flow of money,'' she said. ''If we do not take significant and effective action against the North Koreans now, we'll spark an arms race in Northeast Asia. I don't think anybody wants to see that.'' 
 While Mrs. Clinton also said the State Department was examining whether North Korea should be placed back on the list of state sponsors of terrorism, she acknowledged that there was a legal process for it. ''Obviously we would want to see recent evidence of their support for international terrorism,'' she said. 
 That evidence may be hard to come by. While North Korea has engaged in missile sales, it has not been linked to terrorism activity for many years. And North Korea's restoration to the list would be largely symbolic, because it already faces numerous economic sanctions. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met Friday in Washington with Foreign Minister Yu Myung-hwan of South Korea.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RANKINGS (69%); TERRORISM (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2009



203 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Justices Issue a Rule of Recusal In Cases of Judges' Big Donors

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Elected judges must disqualify themselves from cases involving people who spent exceptionally large sums to put them on the bench, the Supreme Court ruled on Monday in a 5-to-4 decision.
 The decision, the first to say the Constitution's due process clause has a role to play in policing the role of money in judicial elections, ordered the chief justice of the West Virginia Supreme Court to recuse himself from a $50 million case against a coal company whose chief executive had spent $3 million to elect him.
 Thirty-nine states, including New York, elect at least some of their judges, and election campaigns, particularly for state supreme courts, have in recent years grown increasingly expensive and nasty. In the last decade, spending on elections for state high courts has reached $200 million, according to Justice at Stake, a group that tracks campaign spending. Elected judges routinely accept contributions from lawyers and litigants who appear before them, and they seldom disqualify themselves for cases involving donors.
 Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, writing for the majority in a decision that split along familiar ideological lines, said the Constitution required disqualification when an interested party's spending had a ''disproportionate influence'' in a case that was ''pending or imminent.'' 
 Monday's decision concerned an extreme case, and it announced a vague and general standard that will be refined and applied in the lower courts. The justices in the majority said they did not intend ''unnecessary interference with judicial elections.'' 
 But the four dissenting justices predicted that the decision would generate a flood of groundless recusal motions and undermine confidence in the judiciary.
 The practice of electing judges is all but unknown in the rest of the world. Federal judges, including the justices of the United States Supreme Court, are appointed. 
 Much of the American legal establishment had urged the court to rule that the Constitution required elected judges to disqualify themselves from at least those cases in which interested parties had spent large sums to elect them. Such groups welcomed Monday's decision with something approaching jubilation.
 ''The court's decision is appropriately narrow but is nonetheless a huge victory for one of the most basic aspects of the rule of law: the right to a fair hearing,'' said James Sample, a lawyer with the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law.
 But groups opposing campaign regulations on First Amendment grounds said Monday's decision created an unworkable standard.
 ''The court has given no guidance on how judges should interpret potential biases, so this ruling will have a chilling effect on citizens engaging in independent speech,'' Bradley A. Smith, the chairman of the Center for Competitive Politics, said in a statement. 
 In the West Virginia case, Justice Kennedy wrote, there was ''a serious, objective risk of actual bias.'' Chief Justice Brent D. Benjamin, the beneficiary of the coal executive's spending, twice joined the majority in 3-to-2 decisions throwing out the $50 million jury verdict against the company, Massey Energy.
 In a series of decisions rejecting disqualification motions, Justice Benjamin said there was no objective reason to suggest he could not rule fairly in the case. 
 Justice Kennedy said he did not doubt Justice Benjamin's sincerity. ''We do not question his subjective findings of impartiality and propriety,'' Justice Kennedy wrote of the state court's chief justice in Monday's decision, Caperton v. A. T. Massey Coal Company, No. 08-22. ''Nor do we determine whether there was actual bias.''
 The plaintiffs in the fraud case, several small mining companies, won the $50 million verdict in 2002, persuading a jury that they had been driven out of business by fraud committed by Massey. That company's chief executive, Don L. Blankenship, spent about $3 million in 2004 to defeat an incumbent justice, Warren R. McGraw, a Democrat, and to elect his opponent, Mr. Benjamin, a Republican who is now the court's chief justice.
 Mr. Blankenship contributed only $1,000, the statutory maximum, directly to Mr. Benjamin's campaign. Most of the rest of his spending was on slashing television advertisements opposing Justice McGraw.
 The sums involved, Justice Kennedy wrote, ''were more than the total amount spent by all other Benjamin supporters and three times the amount spent by Benjamin's own committee.''
 But it was hard to say how much the Blankenship money mattered. Mr. Benjamin won the election by a seven-point margin, with 53 percent of the vote. He was endorsed by every major state newspaper but one. His opponent, Justice McGraw, gave a widely derided speech that probably contributed to his defeat.
 Justice Kennedy said none of that mattered. ''Whether Blankenship's campaign contributions were a necessary and sufficient cause of Benjamin's victory is not the proper inquiry,'' he wrote. 
 Justice Kennedy, writing for himself and Justices John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer, repeatedly said the West Virginia case was ''extraordinary'' and ''extreme.''
 He added that ordinary state judicial ethics rules -- rather than the Constitution -- would govern most cases concerning money spent in judicial elections. 
 But the dissenting justices predicted that the decision would generate groundless litigation and undermine confidence in the judiciary. 
 ''It is an old cliche,'' Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote in a dissent, ''but sometimes the cure is worse than the disease.''
 ''The end result,'' the chief justice wrote, ''will do far more to erode public confidence in judicial impartiality than an isolated failure to recuse in a particular case.''
 Chief Justice Roberts, writing for himself and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr., said that ''the standard the majority articulates -- 'probability of bias' -- fails to provide clear, workable guidance for future cases.''
 He followed this observation with a list of 40 numbered questions that ''courts will now have to determine.'' Among them: How much money is too much money? Must the judge cast the deciding vote? Do contributions from trade associations or interest groups count?
 ''Today's opinion,'' Chief Justice Roberts wrote, ''requires state and federal judges simultaneously to act as political scientists (why did candidate X win the election?), economists (was the financial support disproportionate?) and psychologists (is there likely to be a debt of gratitude?).'' 
 Justice Scalia, in a separate dissent, said Monday's decision illustrated a larger jurisprudential problem.
 ''The court today continues its quixotic quest to right all wrongs and repair all imperfections through the Constitution,'' Justice Scalia wrote. 
 ''Should judges sometimes recuse themselves even when the clear commands of our prior due process law do not require it?'' he asked. ''Undoubtedly. The relevant question, however, is whether we do more good than harm by seeking to correct this imperfection through expansion of our constitutional mandate in a manner ungoverned by any discernible rule. The answer is obvious.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); DUE PROCESS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF WEST VIRGINIA (57%)

PERSON: ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



204 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Rising Gas Prices Threaten to Slow a Recovery

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Karen Ann Cullotta contributed reporting from Chicago, and Christopher Maag from Westlake, Ohio.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
After just a few months of relief at the pump, cheap gasoline is disappearing.
 Gas prices have risen 41 days in a row, to a national average of almost $2.62 a gallon. That is a sharp increase from the low of $1.62 a gallon that prevailed at the end of last year. 
 Refinery problems are producing especially high prices in the Midwest, a region that was already reeling from the economic crisis. Michigan, the state with the highest unemployment rate, at 12.9 percent, is now paying the highest gasoline prices, averaging $2.93 a gallon. 
 The national jump in prices, far larger than the normal seasonal increase, is pulling billions of dollars from the pockets of drivers. It threatens to curtail a modest recovery in consumer spending on items like apparel and electronics.
 After increasing 62 percent since December, the price of gasoline is actually lagging behind the increase in the price of oil, which has doubled in the same period, to more than $68 in recent days. Analysts say the increase is being driven by investor expectations of an economic recovery, the recent fall of the dollar against other currencies and, to a lesser extent, the success of oil-exporting countries in curtailing supplies.
 Whatever the reasons, Dawn Cunningham, a sales representative from Elk Grove Village, Ill., was not happy as she spent $45 the other day to fill the tank of her Honda Pilot sport utility vehicle. ''My husband and I both took pay cuts recently, and now the rising price of gas is taking even more out of our pockets,'' she said.
 Prices remain well below those of last summer, when the national average for regular gasoline soared above $4, but economists say the recent gains are a growing economic problem and may presage a rise in the overall inflation rate.
 ''This hits everyone,'' said Robert J. Shiller, an economist at Yale. ''It has the potential to affect your confidence.'' He said that the recent rise in gasoline prices could effectively offset the new $400 to $800 payroll tax cut most employees are receiving this year as part of the Obama administration's effort to stimulate the economy. 
 Consumers last summer were pulling $1.5 billion a day from their wallets to fuel their vehicles. By January, as oil prices collapsed, they were spending only $600 million a day. But now they are back to daily spending of around $1 billion, Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, said.
 The price increase mystifies some analysts, who say that oil demand remains weak. According to the International Energy Agency, worldwide demand is down 2.6 million barrels a day from last year, mostly because of declines in driving and slower economic activity in the United States and other industrialized countries. Oil inventories are high.
 ''I'm scratching my head,'' said Adam Sieminski, chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank, who attributes oil's rise to an influx of investment dollars. ''Right now, the sense is the economy is on a path toward improvement, and there is a lot of cash sitting on the sidelines. So hedge funds, sovereign funds, pension funds are investing in futures and oil stocks and commodity indexes.''
 Glenn Darden, chief executive of Quicksilver Resources, an independent oil and natural gas producer in Fort Worth, predicted that oil prices would keep rising. ''We were below the cost of drilling and production costs, so that situation could not last,'' he said. ''Oil being at $70 or $80 or $100 a barrel is where it's going.'' 
 Crude oil settled Monday in New York trading at $68.09 a barrel. 
 Because of the economic downturn, petroleum refiners around the country slowed gasoline production at the end of last year, and more recently they took extra time to complete the switch from winter to summer fuel blends. 
 Several refineries in the Midwest had temporary maintenance delays and problems, including at the large BP refinery in Whiting, Ind., which has had to retool its operations to refine fuels from Canadian oil sands.
 ''You are entering the highest demand season of the year with tight supply, and that supply may not catch up with demand until the fall,'' said Lewis Adam, president of ADMO Energy, a consulting company.
 The increase since the beginning of the year has been especially brisk in Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and Michigan, states already hit hard by the decline in the automobile industry and slumping home prices.
 ''Every penny counts,'' said Mayor Valerie Knol of Farmington, Mich., who said that people in her area typically drive long distances for work and do not have ready access to mass transit. She added that the extra money people were spending on gas was money they would otherwise spend going out or buying goods.
 Molly Maloney, 17, winced the other day as she pumped $40 worth of gas into her Toyota Camry at a station in Westlake, Ohio, that was selling its regular blend for $2.75 a gallon. She is looking for a job in a tight economy, and the high gas prices are crimping her search.
 ''I'm just blindly applying to any place that's close to my house, so I won't have to drive very far,'' she said. ''It's just crazy.''
 Experts who follow the auto industry see a silver lining of sorts in the rising prices. The government, which recently bailed out two of the three Detroit carmakers, is pressing the companies to build smaller, more fuel-efficient cars. 
 ''The manufacturers need high gas prices for people to accept those cars,'' said Maryann Keller, an automotive consultant. ''Gasoline prices motivate behavior.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A driver, Sue Loebbaka, filling up near Chicago. Gas prices in Illinois are among the highest in the country, partly because several refineries in that region experienced problems and delays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B7) CHARTS: PRICE OF REGULAR GASOLINE: National average, adjusted for inflation: Nationally, the price of gas has risen for 41 consecutive days, and is up by $1 a gallon since December. (Source: Energy Information Administration) (pg.B1)
FOR HIGH GAS PRICES, MIDWEST RIVALS CALIFORNIA: Tight supplies, partly because of refinery problems, have caused gas prices in the Midwest to rise. (Sources: Oil Price Information Service
 AAA) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); EXPORT TRADE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



205 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 750 words

BYLINE: By ROB COX and JOHN FOLEY

 BODY:
Court Will Take
 Look at Fiat Deal 
 The treatment of secured lenders in Chrysler's reorganization raised troubling questions about the rights of creditors. That the highest court in the land has now signaled a willingness to consider the merits of arguments made by those opposed to the deal is good for capitalism, not to mention democracy.
 To be clear, the Supreme Court has not sided with the Indiana's state treasurer's contention that the subjugation of secured Chrysler creditors was illegal. Rather, the court has delayed the transfer of Chrysler's assets to Fiat until the bench can decide whether it should hear Indiana's case. 
 Given the importance of the situation, this is a welcome delay. At stake is more than just whether Fiat starts making Alfa Romeos in Ohio this month or next. By putting the United Automobile Workers' rights above those of secured lenders -- and in the process seemingly upsetting years of established bankruptcy law -- the government in essence created uncertainty about the rule of law, and perhaps discouraging those willing to put capital at risk in America. 
 The government may have a reasonable case to make that the rapid restructuring of Chrysler and the apparently generous allocation of spoils to the union are for the greater economic good. 
 The quick-fix version of Chapter 11 may get the company back in the business of manufacturing vehicles without the prospect of striking workers. 
 But because the biggest Chrysler creditors, who caved to the White House's plan, were recipients of more than $50 billion of bailout money, their rubber-stamping of the revamping plan hatched by President Obama's auto task force had the potential to undermine faith in due process. 
 The Supreme Court was intended to act as an unpoliticized check on the powers of the other branches of government. The Supreme Court's action in taking a little more time to decide whether this case merits a full hearing is good not only for confidence in American business, but also for democracy. 
 Taiwan Trade Worries
 Taiwan has not yet found salvation in the pages of China's deep pockets. Despite talks about closer financial ties between the two countries, figures released on Monday showed Taiwan's global trade was still in the doldrums. Foreign shipments fell 31 percent in May compared with the same month last year -- an improvement on April, but dire nonetheless.
 The country's overheated stock market, however, seems not to have noticed. Taiwan's benchmark index has risen 45 percent since the beginning of 2009, notwithstanding a wobble on Monday. It trades at a 60 percent premium to the rest of the region, according to Credit Suisse. Generous tax cuts are one reason -- but a bigger one is that investors spy a quirky way to trade on Chinese growth.
 The idea is that China will fulfill two roles. First, it can supply capital, once plans to relax rules on investment by mainlanders come into effect. Second, it will be an export buyer of last resort.
 Last week, the big technology trade show Computex played host to three times as many Chinese visitors as it did in 2008. Mainland television firms placed $4.4 billion in orders for flat-panel screens alone, officials said on Sunday.
 Closer ties between the countries are welcome and inevitable. But Chinese demand is not enough to cure Taiwan's trade ills. Much of what Taiwan sends to China is assembled and re-exported to the West. Chinese consumers are not yet ready to find a use for all those microchips. 
 Meanwhile, China fever may have two unwanted side effects. One is to bring in hot money, and not just the foreign kind. Taiwanese investors have repatriated funds in droves in 2009, totaling by some estimates as much as a third of the total amount invested offshore. That money, which helps push share prices up even further, might be stickier than the foreign kind. But if corporate earnings do not match valuations, it is likely to stray overseas again. 
 The other side effect could be to keep too many unhealthy companies alive. Taiwan's semiconductor industry in particular has too many firms, and too little profits. In aggregate, producers of DRAM, a kind of memory chip, lost $7 billion last year. A state-backed plan to crunch them together seems to have lost impetus. The hope for unlimited future Chinese demand could provide further unjustified life support. 
 ROB COX and JOHN FOLEY 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Computex trade show was held in Taiwan, whose stock market is currently overheated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PICHI CHUANG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (79%); DUE PROCESS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAX LAW (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); STRIKES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); SHIPMENTS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FIAT SPA (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%) TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



206 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Hearing on Flight 1549 Will Seek Ways to Keep Birds and Planes Apart

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Airports already bulldoze bird nests and send dogs to chase off flocks, but engineers are trying new technologies to scare away birds in flight, including using landing lights as strobe lights, the vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board said Monday. 
 The official, Robert L. Sumwalt, spoke on the eve of Tuesday's safety board hearing on the crash of US Airways Flight 1549, which took Canada geese into both engines shortly after takeoff from La Guardia Airport on Jan. 15 and glided into the Hudson. All 155 people on board survived. 
 Mr. Sumwalt said turning the landing lights into strobe lights could make a plane, closing in on the birds at more than 100 miles an hour, more conspicuous to them. But, he said, that is only one solution that should be investigated.
 ''Maybe there's some other technology out there, a radar that some innovative company can come up with to zap the birds out of the way,'' Mr. Sumwalt said in an interview. Some pilots believe that birds try to avoid emissions from the planes' on-board weather radar, he said, and ''we need to find out, is that an urban legend or is there some truth to that?'' 
 ''We need to be innovative when we're looking for solutions here,'' he said. 
 The happy outcome in Flight 1549's splashdown into the frigid Hudson involved not only the skill of the crew, but also a lot of luck, experts say: In the last 20 years, researchers counted 229 people killed and 210 aircraft destroyed as a result of bird strikes.
 In fact, the Federal Aviation Administration already has an extensive program for what it calls ''wildlife hazard mitigation,'' but it seems ill suited to the problem that faced the US Airways flight, which struck geese five miles from the runway -- too far for the New York airports to take action -- at an altitude of 2,900 feet -- too high for radars being installed around the country to detect birds.
 Researchers from the Smithsonian Institution announced Monday that isotopic analysis of the goose remains found in Flight 1549's two engines showed that habitat destruction would be impractical because the birds were migratory and not part of the population that has settled permanently in the New York area. 
 They were probably in flight that morning because snow had covered the grass where they usually graze, said Peter P. Marra, a research wildlife biologist based at the National Zoo in Washington, and they were looking for open feeding grounds. Native populations can be displaced by a few miles to keep them away from runways, but biologists do not want to disrupt birds that migrate. 
 Laura J. Brown, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration, said that biologists follow the patterns of resident birds and try to dissuade them from living where they would be a problem. But, she added, ''what kind of program can you have for migratory birds?''
 Disrupting habitats close to airports that are attractive to birds, like ponds, can be helpful for discouraging both resident and migratory birds, she said. 
 The Smithsonian determined that the geese involved in Flight 1549 were migratory by looking at the ratio between two kinds of hydrogen in their feathers. That ratio reflects the one found in grasses that the birds ate while they grew their feathers after the annual molt. A type of hydrogen called deuterium, which was low in this case, is more prevalent in grasses in latitudes like New York's than in northern Canada. 
 Another area to be covered in the three days of safety board hearings is how engine standards are set. There is a rule for how big a bird an engine must be able to take in and spit out while continuing to produce thrust, and another for the maximum size it must be able to take in without breaking up and throwing off dangerous shrapnel. The hearings will look into whether engines can be built to withstand birds as big as the Canada goose. Mr. Sumwalt said the answer was probably not. 
 Ms. Brown said engine standards had to be balanced with other concerns like fuel economy and thrust level. 
 While the US Airways accident was unusual for its location and altitude, air safety investigators still hope to glean whatever lessons are available. 
 In a technique called cockpit resource management, crews are trained to work together in an emergency, and human performance experts will evaluate how well that worked on Flight 1549, Mr. Sumwalt said. 
 The experts will also look at other procedures. According to Mr. Sumwalt, the US Airways crew began working on the checklist for restarting the engines, but did not finish, for lack of time, and then started on a checklist for ditching, but did not finish that either. 
 A few years ago, Airbus revised its engine-out checklist. The procedure includes the instruction ''LAND ASAP.'' If the engine restart is unsuccessful, the procedure moves directly into the ditching instructions. 
 In hindsight, some experts said that the captain, Chesley B. Sullenberger III, might have elected to return to La Guardia in the instant available to make a decision. But Mr. Sumwalt said that without the engines running, he might have lacked the hydraulic power to work the parts essential to landing, like wing flaps and landing gear brakes. He might have brought the plane, an Airbus A320, down on the runway and impaled it on landing lights, with multiple casualties, said Mr. Sumwalt, who flew that model himself as a US Airways pilot before being named to the board.
 Mr. Sullenberger was scheduled to testify Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); BIRDS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); AIRLINES (89%); RADAR SYSTEMS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); BIOLOGY (86%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (79%); CIVIL AVIATION (79%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); WEATHER SENSORS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



207 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: China Requires Software on New Computers to Block 'Unhealthy Information'

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Zhang Jing and Xiyun Yang contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China has issued a sweeping directive requiring all personal computers sold in the country to include sophisticated software that can filter out pornography and other ''unhealthy information'' from the Internet. 
 The software, which manufacturers must install on all new PCs starting July 1, would allow the government to regularly update computers with an ever-changing list of banned Web sites. 
 The rules, issued last month, ratchet up Internet restrictions that are already among the most stringent in the world. China regularly blocks Web sites that discuss the Dalai Lama, the 1989 crackdown on Tiananmen Square protesters, and the Falun Gong, the banned spiritual movement. 
 But free-speech advocates say they fear the new software could make it even more difficult for China's 300 million Internet users to obtain uncensored news and information. 
 ''This is a very bad thing,'' said Charles Mok, chairman of the Hong Kong chapter of the Internet Society, an international advisory group on Internet standards. ''It's like downloading spyware onto your computer, but the government is the spy.'' 
 Called Green Dam -- a reference to slogans that describe a smut-free Internet as ''green'' -- the software is designed to filter out sexually explicit images and words, according to the company that designed it. Computer experts, however, warn that once installed, the software could be directed to block all manner of content or allow the government to monitor Internet use and collect personal information. 
 Details of the new regulations, which were posted Monday on a government Web site, were first reported by The Wall Street Journal. 
 PC makers that serve the Chinese market, among them Dell, Lenovo and Hewlett-Packard, said they were studying the new rules and declined to comment. But privately, industry executives in the United States said they were unnerved by the new rules, which were issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology with no consultation and no advance warning. 
 Beyond the nettlesome issue of abetting government censorship, they said six weeks was not enough time to shift production on such a large scale. ''Many of us are going to take it in the neck with this mandate,'' said one executive. ''It has put people into five-alarm mode.'' 
 This is not the first time that foreign companies have been enlisted in government efforts to police the Internet. Google already removes politically forbidden results yielded by its popular search engine, Microsoft allows censors to block content on its blog service, and Yahoo was widely criticized for turning over information that was used to jail a journalist. 
 ''I would advise dissidents to buy computers before July 1,'' said Clothilde Le Coz, the head of the Internet freedom desk of Reporters Without Borders. 
 More than 40 million personal computers were sold last year in China, one of the fastest growing markets. Despite the slowing economy, industry analysts expect that figure to rise by 3 percent this year. 
 A group of industry representatives met with American officials Monday to express their displeasure with the new rules, said Susan N. Stevenson, a spokeswoman for the United States Embassy in Beijing. ''We view any attempt to restrict the free flow of information with great concern,'' she said. 
 Zhang Chenming, general manager of Jinhui Computer System Engineering, a company that helped create Green Dam, said worries that the software could be used to censor a broad range of content or monitor Internet use were overblown. He insisted that the software, which neutralizes programs designed to override China's so-called Great Firewall, could simply be deleted or temporarily turned off by the user. ''A parent can still use this computer to go to porn,'' he said. 
 Although the directive is somewhat imprecise and suggests that manufacturers can provide the software as a compact disc, it also says that it must be installed on computer hard drives as a backup file. The five-point circular uses the word ''preinstall'' repeatedly and the first clause unequivocally states: ''Imported computers shall preinstall the latest available version of the 'Green Dam' software before they are sold in China.''
 Manufacturers complain that they have had been given little guidance by Chinese authorities. ''The wording may be intentionally vague, but the message is clear: we have no choice in the matter,'' said one computer executive who spoke on condition of anonymity because some companies are hoping they can persuade the government to ease the requirements. 
 Industry experts and civil libertarians say they are worried the software may simply be a Trojan horse for greater Internet control. The software developers have ties to China's military and public security agencies, they point out, and Green Dam's backers say the effort is supported by Li Changchun, the country's chief propaganda official and a member of the decision-making body of the Communist Party, the Politburo Standing Committee. 
 The software will be provided free, paid for by the government, and according to the official Green Dam Web site, it has already been downloaded 3.2 million times. That figure includes thousands of schools that were required to install the software by the end of May. The site claims that Chinese manufacturers, including Lenovo, Inspur and Hedy, have already agreed to install 52 million copies of the software on new computers. 
 In recent months China has tightened its Internet restrictions, including an ''antivulgarity'' campaign that has closed down thousands of pornographic sites but also nonsexual sites, including some of the most popular bulletin boards and blog hosts. China already employs more than 30,000 censors and thousands who ''guide public opinion'' by flooding bulletin boards with comments favorable to the Communist Party. 
 Last week, as the 20th anniversary of the military crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests approached, the government blocked a host of Internet services, including Twitter, Microsoft's live.com and Flickr, a photo-sharing site, though by Monday evening, these sites had become available again. YouTube has been inaccessible in China outside Hong Kong since March. 
 Even beyond ethical concerns, those who have tested the new software describe it as technically flawed. An American software engineer said it led machines to crash frequently. Others worry that it could leave tens of millions of computers vulnerable to hackers. So far, at least, there is no version for the Linux operating system and for Apple's Macintosh system. 
 The directive makes no mention of the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macao, but one industry association executive said companies had been told that these areas are exempt from the new rules. 
 On Monday, Green Dam's own Web site offered a hint of discontent over the filtering software. On the bulletin board section of the site, one writer described it as a ''Web devil'' and several users complained that pornographic images slipped through or that their computers had become painfully slow. ''It seems pretty lousy so far,'' one posting said. ''It's not very powerful; I can't surf the Internet normally and it's affecting the operation of other software.'' 
 By Monday night, however, most of the comments had been deleted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTING & IT REGULATION & POLICY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERNET CRIME (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); CULTS & SECTS (76%); SPYWARE (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); WEB SITES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (62%); WRITERS (60%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



208 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Predict $9 Billion Global Loss

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
The global airline industry on Monday nearly doubled its forecast for losses this year to $9 billion and warned that the economic problems would continue for some time. 
 The forecast by the International Air Transport Association, the industry's largest trade group, was slightly better than the loss last year. But it was significantly worse that the association's projections in March that estimated a loss of $4.7 billion for 2009. 
 The group also said it expected revenue across the industry to fall 15 percent, to $448 billion this year -- a much steeper decline than after the 9/11 terror attacks in the United States. 
 ''There is no modern precedent for today's economic meltdown. The ground has shifted,'' Giovanni Bisignani, the association's director general, said Monday in a speech at the association's annual meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. ''Our industry has been shaken. Our future depends on a drastic reshaping by partners, governments and industry.''
 Many airlines have grappled with declining passenger numbers and freight transport -- often an important line of business for airlines, which were hurt by the global economic slowdown.
 Sales of first- and business-class tickets, in particular, have slumped as passengers have switched to economy class, depriving many airlines of a major source of revenue that is unlikely to return soon.
 ''Whether this crisis is long or short, the world is changing,'' Mr. Bisignani said. ''It will not be business as usual in the postcrisis world.''
 Airlines around the world responded recently with cost saving measures, including shelving investment plans, parking planes and reducing salaries and the number of flights.
 For passengers, the industry's troubles have been a mixed blessing.
 Many routes are being flown less frequently, and some airlines, especially those in the United States, have resorted to cutting in-flight services or adding fees for things like luggage or pillows.
 Airlines in the Asia-Pacific region are expected to post the largest losses -- $3.3 billion -- as Japan remains mired in recession and the formerly thriving economies of China and India cool, the association said.
 North American airlines are forecast to have a combined loss of $1 billion this year. That would be a significant improvement over the $5.1 billion loss in 2008, when soaring fuel prices hit many airlines there especially hard. European airlines are expected to lose $1.8 billion.
 Unlike those in North America and Europe, Asian carriers generally have not reduced in-flight services. Analysts say they believe travelers in the Asia-Pacific region are unlikely to see their comfort impaired or face new costs for extras, despite the steep losses expected by airlines.
 In Asia, most of the costs are in staff and fuel, said Gary Pinge, an analyst for Macquarie in Hong Kong.
 ''Cutting back on in-flight service saves very little, and these airlines have to be very careful about preserving their brand image,'' Mr. Pinge said. ''They have to make sure that they remain the airline of choice for premium travelers once that part of the market revives.''
 On Monday, Japan Airlines, Asia's largest by revenue, said it planned to cut capacity on international routes by 10 percent this business year, and state-owned Air India said it was considering delaying planes on order from Boeing, Reuters reported from the association's meeting. 
 The Finnish carrier Finnair is increasing salary cuts in a move to rein in costs, it said last week.
 By contrast, the Australian airline Qantas said it did not plan to add to its already-announced flight reductions, showing that some carriers now believe they have adjusted enough to the changed environment. There are also some signs that the decline in passenger and cargo volumes may have stabilized.
 ''Many airlines now have a pretty good handle on capacities: they have scaled back flights and volumes enough by now to have adjusted to the changed circumstances, and will probably not have to do much more now,'' Mr. Pinge said.
 The transport association expects cargo demand to fall 17 percent this year and passenger demand to drop 8 percent, to 2.06 billion travelers. 
 The global industry's projected $9 billion loss is a slight improvement over the $10.4 billion loss in 2008, when fuel bills climbed to $165 billion as oil prices soared. This year, the association expects airline fuel bills to fall back to $106 billion, but Mr. Bisignani warned that oil prices could be pushed up again as the global economy began to recover.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giovanni Bisignani, the leader of the International Air Transport Association, spoke Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GOH SENG CHONG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); TERRORISM (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (76%) ASIA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



209 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Battle Between Budget and Beauty, Which Budget Won

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
The recent news that the developer Forest City Ratner had scrapped Frank Gehry's design for a Nets arena in central Brooklyn is not just a blow to the art of architecture. It is a shameful betrayal of the public trust, one that should enrage all those who care about this city.
 Whatever you may have felt about Mr. Gehry's design -- too big, too flamboyant -- there is little doubt that it was thoughtful architecture. His arena complex, in which the stadium was embedded in a matrix of towers resembling falling shards of glass, was a striking addition to the Brooklyn skyline; it was also a fervent effort to engage the life of the city below.
 A new design by the firm Ellerbe Becket has no such ambitions. A colossal, spiritless box, it would fit more comfortably in a cornfield than at one of the busiest intersections of a vibrant metropolis. Its low-budget, no-frills design embodies the crass, bottom-line mentality that puts personal profit above the public good. If it is ever built, it will create a black hole in the heart of a vital neighborhood. 
 But what's most offensive about the design is the message it sends to New Yorkers. Architecture, we are being told, is something decorative and expendable, a luxury we can afford only in good times, or if we happen to be very rich. What's most important is to build, no matter how thoughtless or dehumanizing the results. It is the kind of logic that kills cities -- and that has been poisoning this one for decades. 
 I suppose we should have seen this coming. The scale and location of the project posed serious challenges -- challenges that could not be solved by the conventional development formulas. Arenas are notorious black holes in urban neighborhoods, sitting empty most of the year and draining the life around them. And in this case, the arena would dominate a major intersection and anchor a dense 22-acre residential development several blocks to the east.
 Mr. Gehry began by asking a simple question: Is it possible to integrate an arena of this size into the city? Many architects would attempt to disguise the structure behind banners and billboards. Mr. Gehry's solution was more inventive: to envelop the arena in the fabric of the city itself.
 He began by surrounding the arena with four residential towers -- essentially burying it in the middle of the triangular block at the southeast corner of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues. A glass-enclosed public space, several stories high, projected out from one of the towers toward the intersection, like the prow of a ship. An oval lawn, surrounded by a running track, covered the arena's roof. Open only to the towers' tenants, it nonetheless added to the feel that the building had been swallowed up by the city.
 Perhaps the most ingenious aspect of the design was the way it met the street. Along Atlantic and Flatbush, where the bowl of the arena bulged out between the residential towers, Mr. Gehry clad it in panels of curved glass, so that people passing by could peer directly into the concourse. From certain perspectives, views opened up straight through the arena itself.
 There were valid objections to the design. Some people argued that it was overscaled -- traffic would be a nightmare -- and that it would destroy the character of the neighborhood. But to those of us who defended it, Mr. Gehry's design was an ingenious solution to a seemingly intractable problem, one that would provide a focal point for an area (and arguably a borough) that could use some cohesion. Like all great architecture, it challenged our assumptions of what a building of its type can do.
 The rest of the story is a depressing illustration of how New York development gets done. While Forest City Ratner fought for more and more concessions from the city -- demanding tax breaks, reducing the number of affordable housing units -- Mr. Gehry was forced to trim back his design. First the rooftop park was dropped because it was too expensive. The prowlike public space was redesigned, then redesigned again, until it began to look like a conventional atrium.
 Worst of all, the main tower at the intersection of Atlantic and Flatbush was stripped of much of its vitality. Once a dynamic composition of tumbling glass shards, it became a more static form of irregularly stacked boxes, one that failed to capture the energy of the traffic streaming by on both sides. Then the towers, too, began to disappear, one by one, until the arena bowl was left naked and exposed to the street.
 Still, this was not enough. In a stunning bait-and-switch, Forest City Ratner (which was the development partner for The New York Times Company's headquarters in Midtown) has now decided that it can't afford an architect of Mr. Gehry's stature. Neglecting to tell the public, the firm went out months ago and hired Ellerbe Becket, corporate architects known for producing generic, unimaginative buildings. And although it has refused to release details of the design, the renderings, obtained by The New York Times, tell you all you need to know.
 A massive vaulted shed that rests on a masonry base, the arena is as glamorous as a storage warehouse. A rectangular window overlooks Atlantic, but without the other buildings it lacks the sense of mystery and surprise that was such an essential part of the Gehry design. A trapezoidal brick and glass box at the corner of Atlantic and Flatbush is obviously intended as an echo of Gehry's public space. But Gehry's room, several stories tall, soared over the intersection. Ellerbe Becket's, lower to the ground, just sits there, adding nothing.
 Building this monstrosity at such a critical urban intersection would be deadly. Clearly, the city would be better off with nothing. But what's at issue here is more than the betrayal of a particular community, as tragic as that could be. It is the way the city makes decisions about large-sale development.
 Typically, a developer comes to the city with big plans. Promises are made. Serious architects are brought in. The needs of the community, like ample parkland and affordable housing, are taken into account. Editorial boards and critics, like me, praise the design for its ambition.
 Eventually, the project takes on a momentum of its own. The city and state, afraid of an embarrassing public failure, feel pressured to get the project done at any cost, and begin to make concessions. Given the time such developments take to build, sometimes a decade or more, we then hit the inevitable economic downturn. The developer pleads poverty. Desperate to avoid more economic bad news, government officials cut a deal.
 It's a familiar ending, made more nauseating because we have seen it so many times before. And it can't be solved by simply crunching numbers. It demands a profound shift in mentality. What we have now is a system in which decent architecture and the economic needs of developers are in fundamental opposition. Until that changes, there will be more Atlantic Yards in our future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The firm Ellerbe Becket's design for a Nets arena in Brooklyn, viewed from Atlantic Avenue. A version by Frank Gehry has been abandoned.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLERBE BECKET)(C1)
The firm Ellerbe Becket's design for a Nets arena, looking east.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLERBE BECKET)
 A model of Frank Gehry's design, now scrapped by the developer of the Atlantic Yards project.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEHRY PARTNERS, LLP)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



210 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Bain Capital May Buy Stake In a Major Chinese Retailer

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
Bain Capital, the private equity firm, is planning to invest as much as $400 million to acquire a minority stake in Gome Electrical Appliances, one of the biggest retailers in China, according to people with knowledge of the talks. 
 The deal, which could be announced as early as Tuesday, would be one of the largest American investments in a Chinese company and could help stabilize a consumer electronics giant that was recently rocked by scandal.
 The founder of Gome, Huang Guangyu, was recently listed as the richest man in China, worth an estimated $6 billion. But last November, he was arrested on corruption charges, and China's state-controlled media reported he was being held for ''economic crimes.'' 
 Mr. Huang, 39, still owns a substantial stake in the company but has since been removed as chairman.
 To shore up its finances and restore confidence, Gome has been seeking outside investors. Bain, which has headquarters in Boston, was one of those bidding to take a stake in the company, according to people with knowledge of the talks. 
 A person who answered the telephone at Bain Capital's Hong Kong office Monday said no one was available to speak to the media. A Gome spokeswoman said the company declined to comment.
 But people with knowledge of the talks say Bain could take a 16 percent stake this week and also take several board seats.
 Gome has 739 outlets in China and in 2008 generated revenue of $6.7 billion. 
 Gome stock plummeted more than 70 percent last year, and trading was suspended in Hong Kong after Mr. Huang's detention. Trading in shares of the company is still suspended. 
 Analysts say the company is strained for cash and has a large debt payment coming due in 2010.
 The fate of Mr. Huang is still uncertain. But state-controlled news media in China have reported in recent months that several high-ranking officials in the southern province of Guangdong have been arrested because of involvement in the case.
 The South China Morning Post reported that the mayor of Shenzhen, one of the country's fastest-growing cities, had been detained in connection with the investigation into Mr. Huang.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); ARRESTS (75%); ELECTRONICS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); SCANDALS (71%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (91%); GOME ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES HOLDINGS LTD (91%)

TICKER: 0493 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (91%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); SIC5722 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



211 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CONTINENTAL DIVIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: Economic Crisis Pits the European Union Against Its Members

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Nadim Audi contributed reporting from Amiens and Calais, France, and George Calin from Bucharest, Romania.

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The European Union is an extraordinary experiment in shared sovereignty, creating a zone of peace that now stretches from Britain to the Balkans. The union of 27 countries is the world's most formidable economic bloc, incorporating 491 million people in an integrated market that produces nearly a third more than the United States.
 But the global economic crisis has made it clear that Europe remains less than the sum of its parts.
 The crisis has presented the European Union with its greatest challenge, but even many committed Europeanists believe that the alliance is failing the test. European leaders, their focus on domestic politics, disagree sharply about what to do to combat the slump. They have feuded over how much to stimulate the economy. They argue about whether the European Central Bank should worry more about the deep recession or future inflation. And they have rushed to protect jobs in their home markets at the expense of those in other member countries. 
 The latest European parliamentary elections on Sunday drove home the point. Only 43 percent of Europeans voted -- a record low turnout, despite the financial crisis and compulsory voting in some countries. Far-right parties, opposed to the European Union and to immigrants from poor member countries, recorded gains, as did the Greens. Those who did vote weighed in largely on national issues.
 With American leadership undercut by divisive foreign wars and the United States' economic model of market freedom and light regulation under great challenge, Europe matters. The ''European model'' of significant government involvement in the economy; close supervision of finance, industry and labor; and generous state-run pensions and health care, is being praised in some circles as a freshly viable alternative to Anglo-American-style capitalism.
 But although the subprime mortgage crisis began in the United States, Europe is arguably suffering more. The International Monetary Fund estimates that European banks hold more bad assets than American ones and have written down much less. Budget deficits are rising, and unemployment, especially among the young, is already at its highest in 10 years. 
 With the response hobbled by a fractious European Union, many economists now expect the downturn to last longer here than across the Atlantic.
 ''We are in a moment of a very severe crisis,'' said Joschka Fischer, a Green Party politician and former German foreign minister. ''We have a traumatic lack of leadership; we are caught right in the middle by the flood.''
 National vs. Common Good 
 The central tension in the union has always been between national priorities and collective interests. Ceding national rights and powers -- over currency, trade, customs duties -- has never been simple, even in good times. In bad times, like the current downturn, national politics trump the common interest. Leaders move to protect their own industries, workers and voters at the expense of those elsewhere. Workers still seethe at the sacrifices they feel they make on behalf of integration.
 At the Goodyear Dunlop tire factory in Amiens, in northern France, Thierry Fagot, 36, is losing the job he has held for 13 years. He sees competition within the alliance as part of the reason.
 ''I feel like I was fooled. I mean, we created Europe to protect us, and for a long time it worked,'' he said, explaining that Europe provided a market for the factory's tires and established safety rules. ''Now, with the competition of Eastern countries, I feel like Europe created this situation where we're losing our jobs to another E.U. country. How can this be for the greater good?''
 The European Union is not about to collapse amid such antagonisms. But some of the continent's most devoted advocates are scaling down their ambitions. Few speak any longer of a Europe that is a significant political or military counterweight to the United States.
 Mr. Fischer, the Green Party politician, is a committed European who bemoans ''the post-'89 generation's'' indifference to the ideals of a European destiny, and the retreat, under the pressure of the crisis, to nationalist goals and rhetoric.
 ''Crises are always moments of truth because they relentlessly expose both the strengths and weaknesses of all the players involved,'' said Mr. Fischer, criticizing in particular the narrow, national vision of the German government. 
 He said the European Central Bank, which sets a major borrowing rate for the 16 nations that use the euro as a common currency, has done well. But the European Commission, the union's main executive body, ''played a zero role in the present crisis, and this was a transnational crisis, so the role of the commission should have been just the opposite.''
 Instead, European leaders are concentrating on passing the long-delayed Lisbon Treaty, to create a European president and foreign minister and simplify decision-making. But the treaty has little to say about economic matters. 
 The strains are evident in the way countries have worked to bail out their own banks and rescue national factories of global automobile companies, when a broader European policy would be more logical. But they are also visible in the inability to agree on a policy toward Afghanistan or on a joint energy policy to reduce European dependence on Russian natural gas.
 German-French Tensions
 Germany and France together are the traditional motor of the European Union, but relations between them are cold, with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, putting national interests first, whether the issue is social benefits or saving jobs in the faltering car industry.
 Divisions are also evident between northern Europe and southern Europe, with more fiscally responsible countries like Germany only reluctantly promising to help floundering economies like those of Spain and Greece. Solidarity, meant to be the great principle of the European Union, is fraying as well on East-West lines, with the countries that use the euro reluctant to jeopardize the currency's stability by rescuing members outside the so-called eurozone, like Bulgaria and Romania. 
 Few want to consider what happens to Ukraine, a nonmember, where many European banks, especially German and Austrian ones, are heavily invested.
 And the promise of a Europe ''without borders'' has been undermined by a reaction in hard times against immigrants from around the region who are seen as competing for jobs.
 Before the European parliamentary elections, Mr. Sarkozy and Ms. Merkel issued a joint letter. ''We want a strong Europe that protects us, we reject a bureaucratic Europe that mechanically applies nitpicking rules,'' they wrote.
 But they disagree sharply on the role of public spending and the European Central Bank. Mr. Sarkozy favors more stimulus and giving the central bank the flexibility to buy bonds or public sector loans to help revive lending. Ms. Merkel, in contrast, has attacked rising budget deficits and criticized the central bank for reducing interest rates too much and risking future inflation.
 They agree, however, on protecting jobs in their home markets. While Mr. Sarkozy has been criticized for providing billions to protect French car companies, Ms. Merkel, with a national election in September, has just brokered an expensive deal for Opel, the European branch of General Motors, almost entirely based on saving German jobs.
 The former French president Valery Giscard d'Estaing said that since the French rejected a European constitution he helped to draft in 2005, national leaders had dominated those who favor a stronger union. 
 ''It's retrograde,'' he said in an interview. ''In a short-term crisis, you may have national intervention to protect people, but it's not a policy, it's just a reaction,'' he said, putting the single market at risk. ''The trend must be to see the European market as a whole.''
 Questioning a Bloc's Purpose 
 In Calais, France, the Schaeffler Chain Drive Systems factory, German-owned, makes parts for Opel. A third of the workers were laid off a month ago, including Dany Valcke, 53. He was a foreman, but now, as he says, ''time is all I've got,'' and he doubts he will ever find another factory job.
 ''Europe is a good thing, it allows our countries to have a stronger voice in the world, and it brought peace,'' Mr. Valcke said. ''But economically, it's not so good. Many have lost their jobs to European countries where the work force is cheaper. They are part of Europe, but if you want Europe, you can't have these two competing systems.'' 
 The European Union ''didn't try hard enough to help its people through the crisis. It probably doesn't even have the power for this,'' he said. Then he asked, a bit plaintively: ''Sometimes I wonder what it's for, if not for this? I find the U.S. government response to the crisis much more appropriate.''
 In Romania, on the other side of the union, the workers are suffering, too. But they take some comfort in being part of a larger, richer bloc than their old, Soviet one, and in general blame local leaders for their problems.
 Cristina Lincu, 32, went to find work in Spain in 2001. Now she is back home, with her husband and baby son. The crisis hit their small Madrid grocery hard, but it also reduced property prices in Romania, so they came back and bought land for a house. In a way, she gained from the crisis, Ms. Lincu said, but she is concerned about her fellow Romanians in Spain. There, ''the vast majority of immigrant workers were doing low-paid or not very dignified jobs, but now even Spaniards want those jobs,'' she said. 
 As for the European Union, she is grateful. ''It's a wonder they admitted us in the first place,'' she said, laughing. ''We have such a big corruption problem here.''
 As for the future, opinions are divided, but few predict that the European experiment is over. The Lisbon Treaty is expected to pass eventually, strengthening the union's powers. And today's leaders, however divided, may learn to grapple with economic challenges collectively, even as they learned to avoid the military conflicts of an earlier age.
 ''It will be tough, we'll have setbacks, history will beat us up, we'll have painful years, but I think crisis creates leaders, the right leaders,'' said Mr. Fischer, the German Green Party politician. ''I'm not pessimistic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BATTERED BY THE FORCES OF A VOLATILE MARKET: Left, workers protest layoffs at a Goodyear tire factory in Amiens, France. Cristina Lincu, center, with her son, Alexandru, returned to Romania after her grocery store in Madrid faltered. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, shown meeting with cabinet members in May in Berlin, brokered a costly deal to save German jobs at Opel, the European branch of General Motors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIPPE HUGUEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
GEORGE CALIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
FABRIZIO BENSCH/REUTERS)
 'TIME IS ALL I'VE GOT': Dany Valcke, 53, was laid off as a foreman at Schaeffler Chain Drive Systems in Calais, France. ''Many have lost their jobs to European countries where the work force is cheaper,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) MAP: AN ECONOMIC BREAKDOWN: The 27 countries of the European Union form a powerful economic bloc. But the current financial crisis has begun to fracture the alliance, with stronger economies protecting their national interests. (Source: The European Commission, Eurostat) (pg.A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EURO (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (79%); ROMANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



212 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: The Hudson, 400 Years Later

 BODY:
All this week, a mighty procession of ships and boats is sailing and motoring up the Hudson River from New York Harbor to Albany, stopping in harbor towns and cities along the way to the roaring of cannons and pealing of church bells. It's a big event for a big anniversary: the 400th year since Henry Hudson made the same voyage in his little ship, the Half Moon. It is also an opportunity to take stock -- to see how far the Hudson has come and how far it still has to go. 
 The river is a living logbook of environmental destruction and rebirth. Having suffered a century of industrial despoliation, it inspired the modern environmental movement in the 1960s and '70s, starting with the successful battle to stop Consolidated Edison from building a hydroelectric plant on Storm King Mountain, south of Newburgh.
 Landfills were plugged; power projects thwarted. And after decades of delay, General Electric has, at last, begun to dredge PCB's from the river above Albany, slowly clearing away the final dark stain of the Hudson's industrial past. As all the blue crabs, striped bass and bald eagles would tell you if they could, the river flows far cleaner than before. 
 But the job is far from finished. When the flotilla heads upriver, it will pass gleaming parks and river walks, and go under a historic railroad bridge that is being turned into a soaring public walkway. It will also pass condominium sites in places like Yonkers, where development threatens to turn the riverbanks into the high-rise equivalent of stadium bleachers, and the aging Indian Point nuclear plant, whose outdated cooling pipes suck up and kill billions of fish and fish eggs. For all the progress, many of the Hudson's fish populations remain seriously threatened. 
 The river's fiercest advocates -- among them Pete Seeger, who turned 90 this year; Riverkeeper; the Beacon Institute for Rivers and Estuaries -- know the struggle is far from over. One of them, the nonprofit Scenic Hudson, recently began an all-out campaign to protect 65,000 acres of land along the Hudson from sprawl and overdevelopment. This is a 10-year project that will require cooperation among various land trusts, New York State and the federal government. 
 The goal is noble, its future uncertain. The financial crisis has put a huge dent in both public and private resources. But economic recovery will come someday, and the river will still be here. Long after this week's party ends, there will still be serious work to do to preserve the Hudson River's long-term vitality, and we are counting on New York State to dive back in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RIVERS (89%); FISHES (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); LANDFILLS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



213 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Global Arms Spending Up, Study Shows

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
World governments spent $1.46 trillion on upgrading their armed forces last year despite the economic downturn, with China climbing to second place, behind the United States, as the top military spender, a Swedish research group said Monday. Global military spending was 4 percent higher in 2008 than in 2007, and 45 percent higher than a decade ago, the group, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, said in its annual report. American military spending increased nearly 10 percent in 2008 to $607 billion and accounted for about 42 percent of global arms spending, the institute said. The United States was followed for the first time by China, which increased its military spending by 10 percent to an estimated $84.9 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); ANNUAL REPORTS (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%)

ORGANIZATION: STOCKHOLM INTERNATIONAL PEACE RESEARCH INSTITUTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



214 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Sales Rise, but Its U.S. Growth Slows

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation, the restaurant chain, said on Monday that sales at stores open at least a year climbed 5.1 percent in May, helped by strong international sales, but that growth was slowing in the United States. 
 The company said sales at stores open at least a year in the United States, or same-store sales, climbed 2.8 percent, helped by classic menu items and its new McCafe espresso-based coffees. In May last year, same-store sales rose 4.3 percent in the United States.
 Shares of McDonald's were down 2.8 percent in midmorning trading.
 McDonald's, with its dollar menu and value meals, has been able to keep sales rising even as its sit-down restaurant chain competitors report declines. 
 But although the company was able to increase its sales despite the economy -- or perhaps because of it -- the jump in same-store sales was not as high as some analysts on Wall Street had expected.
 An analyst with Deutsche Bank North America, Jason West, for example, had said in a note to investors last week that he expected same-store sales in the United States to grow 3 percent.
 Still, the company reported strong sales in virtually every region of the world. European same-store sales surged 7.6 percent on strong results from France, Germany, Russia and Britain, while same-store sales for Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa rose 6.4 percent.
 Overall sales fell 0.4 percent in the month, the company said, the result of the stronger dollar, which has hurt companies that sell their goods and services overseas. Excluding the effect of the dollar, sales climbed 7 percent over all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (96%); RETAIL SALES (96%); SALES FIGURES (92%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (74%); GERMANY (69%); ASIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



215 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 508 words

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
PATH TO THE STAGE,
 Chord by Chord
 The sound of music tugged a 10-year-old Miguel Landa up the stairs of the Boys' Club of New York, depositing him -- to his surprise -- at a makeshift training center for young musicians. 
 Returning five days a week, for four and a half hours a day, for nearly five years, Miguel, now 14, went on to learn piano, then vibraphone, saxophone and guitar at the Boys' Club of New York in East Harlem. ''When I get home, after finishing my homework, I practice more,'' he said.
 On Tuesday, Miguel will join three dozen other young music students from economically troubled neighborhoods in a sold-out fund-raising concert at Juilliard's Peter Jay Sharp Theater at Lincoln Center, a stage this aspiring musician never thought he would reach. 
 His piano teacher, Gene Williams, was not so surprised, describing Miguel as a student of rare dedication, willing to endure black eyes at the hands of gang members at school when he refused to join. ''This was his safe haven,'' he said.
 For nearly a decade, the Boys' Club of New York has taught music in its 80-year-old red brick building on 111th Street, between First and Second Avenues. Charging 50 cents a year for membership -- 75 cents for the older boys -- the club has provided instruments and private instruction to neighborhood children at no cost, in addition to a range of other activities.
 Many of the young musicians, ages 8 to 18, stay for hours after each school day, building a camaraderie they compare to a family. ''It kept my son off the streets,'' said Lourdes LeBron, as she dropped her son at practice last Tuesday, a routine now in its sixth year. ''These are lessons I can't afford.'' 
 The guiding force behind the program is Malcolm Swisher, a longtime musician whose long thinning hair and mellow drawl hint at his history performing with old rockers. The program started in 1999, when Mr. Swisher began helping William Franklin, then 11, learn the chords to Jimi Hendrix songs in a space they had been using as a nature lab.
 Mr. Swisher persuaded a friend in the music industry to donate guitars to the program and soon there were drum sets, keyboards, horns and xylophones. Over the years, annual recitals turned into concerts, which turned into special appearances at the nearby Apollo Theater and Madison Square Garden. 
 Mr. Franklin said he was amazed by the program's growth. ''Playing in these type of venues shows you what you're doing is worth something; that it can take you places,'' he said.
 During rehearsal last week, Gemel Deshazo, Ms. LeBron's 16-year-old son, crooned the words to Santana's ''Smooth'' in a confident, soulful voice. When the song ended, Miguel Landa put down his guitar and sidled over to a keyboard. Moments later, the chords to another tune leaked down the staircase.
 A. G. SULZBERGER
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Stonewall Revisited: A new exhibition, ''1969: The Year of Gay Liberation,'' at the New York Public Library uses the Stonewall uprising 40 years ago as a starting point in the gay rights movement. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Miguel Landa, 14, rehearsing at the Boys' Club of New York, will perform on Tuesday at Lincoln Center.(PHOTOGRAPJH BY KATE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); HAIR LOSS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



216 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Judge Orders Former Bristol-Myers Executive to Write Book

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Call him the homework judge, not the hanging judge.
 On Monday, Judge Ricardo M. Urbina of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, sentenced a former senior pharmaceutical executive to write a book. 
 Earlier this year the executive, Dr. Andrew G. Bodnar, a former senior vice president at Bristol-Myers Squibb, had pleaded guilty to making a false statement to the federal government about the company's efforts to resolve a patent dispute over the blood thinner Plavix.
 The judge sentenced Dr. Bodnar to two years of probation during which he is to write a book about his experience connected to the case. Dr. Bodnar must also pay a $5,000 fine.
 Elkan Abramowitz, Dr. Bodnar's lawyer, said he had never before heard of a case in which a judge sentenced a defendant to write a book.
 But this is not the first time Judge Urbina has demanded written penance. In 1998, he sentenced a prominent Washington lobbyist to write and distribute a monograph to 2,000 lobbyists at the defendant's own expense. 
 The lobbyist, James H. Lake, pleaded guilty to making illegal corporate campaign contributions. Judge Urbina ordered him to pay a $150,000 fine and to write a monograph describing the criminal provisions of federal laws governing corporate campaign contributions.
 In the sentencing hearing on Monday, Judge Urbina said he would like to see Dr. Bodnar write a book about the Plavix case as a cautionary tale to other executives. The case concerned accusations that Bristol-Myers had made false statements to federal investigators about the company's attempt to resolve a patent dispute with a Canadian maker of generic drugs, Apotex. 
 The Justice Department contended that the company in 2006 made a secret deal, in which Apotex would hold off making a generic version of Plavix. In exchange, the Justice Department said, Bristol-Myers indicated that it would subsequently give Apotex an exclusivity period in which it could produce its Plavix generic without Bristol's making a generic of its own. 
 The government said that Bristol-Myers's actions were anticompetitive and had the potential to restrict public access to lower-priced drugs. Plavix had sales of about $4.9 billion in the United States in 2008, according to IMS Health, a health care information company.
 The initial accusations of anticompetitive behavior ended with only minor charges.
 In 2007, in an agreement worked out with the antitrust division of the Justice Department, Bristol-Myers agreed to plead guilty to two violations of the Federal False Statements Accountability Act and to pay $1 million, the maximum fine.
 In a separate suit, the Justice Department charged that Dr. Bodnar, who had negotiated with Apotex, misled the government over the Plavix agreement.
 In April, Dr. Bodnar pleaded guilty to making a false statement to the federal government, a misdemeanor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew G. Bodnar pleaded guilty to making a false statement about efforts to resolve a patent dispute over a blood thinner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); SENTENCING (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PROBATION (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); DRUG PRICES (72%); ANTICOAGULANTS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); PATENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (68%)

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (92%); APOTEX INC (82%); IMS HEALTH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA (84%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



217 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: At Auction, the Candy Man Can't

BYLINE: By DOMINICK TAO

 BODY:
Next to the many centuries-old Jewish relics up for auction at the Radisson Martinique Hotel in Manhattan on Monday night, one looked almost like a piece of costume jewelry in a Tiffany & Company showcase.
 The silver menorah branches out from its stem at hard right angles, and the plastic rubies glued onto the base add more kitsch than glitz. But the auctioneer, Jonathan Greenstein, owner of J. Greenstein & Company, said the anonymous seller was hoping for bids as high as $15,000 -- when similar menorahs would ordinarily go for closer to $800.
 That's because it once belonged to the entertainer Sammy Davis Jr. 
 ''It's a tremendous conversation piece,'' Mr. Greenstein said.
 Conversation starter it may have been, but money magnet it was not. No bid met the $9,000 reserve, with the highest bid coming in at $8,000. 
 ''It wasn't an important piece by itself. I was hoping someone with nostalgia would buy it, but they didn't,'' Mr. Greenstein said. ''Tomorrow it will probably end up in the owner's safe deposit box, which is sad, because I'm not sure that's how Sammy would have wanted it.''
 The menorah was given to Mr. Davis in 1965 by a Jewish women's charity. He kept it until his death in 1990.
 From there, the menorah -- which is inscribed -- was sold in 1991 at in auction in California to help pay off the singer's tax debts of more than $5 million, according to ''Gonna Do Great Things,'' a biography of the singer-dancer-actor written by Gary Fishgall.
 The inscription reads: ''To Sammy Davis Jr. Whose Achievements Won by Courage and Integrity Say to Every Man: Yes We Can.''
 Coincidentally, the current owner of the menorah, who wished to remain anonymous, wanted to sell it because of tough economic times, Mr. Greenstein said.
 Mr. Davis, a member of the Rat Pack with Frank Sinatra and one of the nation's first black performers to gain mainstream acclaim, endured numerous obstacles in a tumultuous life. He survived a near-fatal car accident in the 1950s, experienced scorn from friends and foes for his interracial marriage in 1960, and made news for his political endorsements (switching support, from Presidents John F. Kennedy to Richard M. Nixon) throughout that decade.
 Although the menorah is a generic piece with no collectible value other than its connection to its former owner, it managed to draw its share of admirers before the auction.
 Rick Granados-Rubin, a regional director for Verizon Wireless, flew from South Carolina for a chance to bid on some of the items. Mr. Granados-Rubin, 42, a recent convert to Judaism, came looking for something to commemorate the occasion of his bar mitzvah. He said he couldn't help but feel attracted to Mr. Davis's menorah.
 ''It was for a lot of the same reasons as him that got me to the same place to choose Judaism,'' Mr. Granados-Rubin said. ''He was feeling that he had a need, and so did I. That is one of the reasons I wanted to come to the viewing, to see that piece.''
 More seasoned collectors, Mr. Greenstein said, were more interested in the other item with an aura of celebrity: the diamond-adorned Torah pointer that once belonged to Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, considered to be one of the most influential Jewish leaders of the 20th century. That item was being sold by Rabbi Schindler's widow, Rhea, because much of the family's money was lost in Bernard L. Madoff's investment swindle. Rabbi Schindler died in 2000.
 The Torah pointer, given to Mr. Schindler as a gift by the Union for Reform Judaism in 1996, is more than 200 years old, and was expected to sell for $12,000 to $18,000, Mr. Greenstein said.
 ''It's only the second one I've seen in 27 years of collecting Judaica,'' Mr. Greenstein said.
 The pointer, used by the Torah reader in Jewish religious services to keep track of his or her place on the parchment, sold for nearly twice its low estimate -- going for $23,000 to a local physician who wished to remain anonymous.
 ''The unbelievable rarity and the prominence that it belonged to such a holy, sweet man as Alexander Schindler is why it sold for so much. Somebody wanted a part of that,'' Mr. Greenstein said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yitzchok Reisman looked over items of Judaica being auctioned on Monday in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The menorah once owned by Sammy Davis Jr. did not get the minimum auction bid.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); RELIGION (73%); DANCERS (69%); CHARITIES (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); DANCE (63%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); RACE & RACISM (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (60%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (92%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (92%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (60%); RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



218 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (13) THE SILK ROAD ENSEMBLE WITH YO-YO MA In 1998 Mr. Ma, the cellist (above, front row, second from left), using the Silk Road trade route as a metaphor for multicultural exchange, founded the Silk Road Project to bring together artists and audiences around the world. The group, with about 60 musicians and composers from more than 20 countries, is affiliated with Harvard University and the Rhode Island School of Design. In this ''Live From Lincoln Center'' production, the ensemble will perform an outdoor concert of Chinese traditional tunes and Rabihh Abou-Khalil's ''Arabian Waltz'' at Damrosch Park in honor of the performing arts center's 50th anniversary.
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY A discussion of the economics of cancer; Sandra Bullock and Melissa Gilbert promote their new movies; Joshua Radin performs. 
 9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY The Nascar driver Jeff Gordon and the actor Michael Vartan are guests.
 11 A.M. (ABC) THE VIEW Sherri Shepherd shows off her bathing suit body. Mandy Moore performs.
 11 A.M. (Showtime) AWAY FROM HER (2007) A long-married couple (Julie Christie, in an Oscar-nominated role, and Gordon Pinsent, left), confront the wife's Alzheimer's disease in this feature directorial debut from Sarah Polley, who also earned an Oscar nomination for her adaptation of ''The Bear Came Over the Mountain,'' the Alice Munro short story. 
 9 P.M. (Sundance) ECO TRIP: THE REAL COST OF LIVING In this season finale David de Rothschild visits the Pacific Northwest, where he reports on the aquaculture harvesting of salmon and examines some of the consequences, including potentially hazardous dyes and drugs in the fish and environmentally hazardous waste. In ''Is Your House Killing You?,'' at 9:30, Kevin Walton, a former photographer for the British Army, rids his Australian home of the treated lumber that was originally installed to withstand floods and termites but that he says has caused skin lesions in him, his wife and their 8-year-old daughter.
 9 P.M. (Fox) MENTAL After a famous professor (David Carradine, who died on Thursday) is left catatonic by a lightning strike that killed his wife, Jack (Chris Vance, above with Estella Warren), tries to revive him with a risky treatment. He also finds himself increasingly attracted to the professor's daughter (Ms. Warren).
 10 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW JERSEY Dina, Caroline and Teresa head down the parkway to Atlantic City for the weekend, where Teresa finds herself considering breast implants. Elsewhere, Danielle's love life falls apart, and the claws come out at a birthday lunch.
 10 P.M. (FX) RESCUE ME Tommy (Denis Leary) and Mike (Michael Lombardi) make up at the firehouse; Sheila (Callie Thorne) tries to get Tommy to control his drinking; Lou (John Scurti) has a flashback; and Sean (Steven Pasquale) finally opens up to his mother (Kathleen Chalfant).
 10 P.M. (Oxygen) TORI & DEAN: HOME SWEET HOLLYWOOD While Tori Spelling films her role in CW's ''Smallville'' in Vancouver, her family falls ill in California. 
 10:30 P.M. (Logo) BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE Simon's mother (Olivia Colman) is convinced that someone will die after Simon (Luke Ward-Wilkinson) pulls a prank. Simon's grandmother (Brenda Fricker) has an operation and wakes up with a new personality.
 11:15 P.M. (IFC) FOOD PARTY Imagine ''Pee Wee's Playhouse'' merged with ''Rachael Ray'' and puppets. That's how IFC is describing this new series created by the Brooklyn artist Thu Tran and served in 10-minute ''bites.'' In this premiere episode Ms. Tran's narcissism takes over, and she sets out to marry herself. ''Wrong Door,'' a British sketch series from Jack Cheshire and Ben Wheatley that is set in a parallel universe where the laws of comedy rule, makes its debut at 11:30 as part of the ''Automat'' programming block. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); CANCER (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); MUSIC (71%); FISHES (68%); NASCAR RACING (67%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (65%); SKIN DISORDERS (65%); AQUACULTURE (63%); ARMIES (51%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (52%); SANDRA BULLOCK (52%); JEFF GORDON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



219 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Lincoln Center Appoints Insider and Real Estate Executive as Chairwoman

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Katherine G. Farley, a senior managing director at the real estate company Tishman Speyer and head of Lincoln Center's redevelopment project, has been appointed the chairwoman of Lincoln Center.
 Ms. Farley, 59, will serve for a year in tandem with the current chairman, Frank A. Bennack Jr., the chief executive of the Hearst Corporation, who will step down next June after five years in the job. The appointment was announced immediately after the annual meeting of the full Lincoln Center board on Monday.
 Mr. Bennack praised Ms. Farley for her leadership ability, nonprofit experience and ''great contacts,'' which will be helpful, he said, because ''fund-raising and marshaling resources is a big part of the job.'' He described the temporary co-chairmanship arrangement as ''unprecedented for Lincoln Center,'' but in keeping with the practices of other large organizations that have found it useful to ''have an overlap like this that makes the transition smoother.'' 
 Ms. Farley is a familiar presence at Lincoln Center, having been a member of its board since 2003 and a vice chairwoman since 2005. For the last three years she has been in charge of the performing arts center's $1.2 billion redevelopment project, which includes a refurbished Alice Tully Hall, spruced-up public spaces and a new visitors' center in the former Harmony Atrium. Ms. Farley has also served on the boards of the New York Philharmonic and Lincoln Center Theater.
 In her new role she will continue to oversee the redevelopment. Although much of it is already under way, there are still more than $200 million in funds left to raise and several important elements to resolve, most notably the refurbishment of Avery Fisher Hall, home to the Philharmonic, a project over which Lincoln Center and the Philharmonic could potentially clash. The two organizations share responsibility for running the hall and are currently renegotiating their constituency agreement, which expires in two years; the scope, details and budget of the hall's renovation also have yet to be decided. Ms. Farley's experience on the orchestra's board is expected to help facilitate agreements, Lincoln Center executives said. 
 And although the campuswide redevelopment has caused tensions in the past among Lincoln Center's 12 constituent groups, which include the Metropolitan Opera, the New York City Ballet and the Film Society of Lincoln Center, Ms. Farley said times had changed. 
 ''It's not a can of worms,'' she said. ''One of the great things that's happened is there really is a broad consensus on campus.'' 
 During her tenure as a Philharmonic trustee, Ms. Farley was head of the orchestra's real estate committee and led the effort to renovate Avery Fisher Hall. She was also instrumental in the orchestra's exploring a merger in 2004 with Carnegie Hall, where her husband, Jerry I. Speyer -- the chairman and co-chief executive officer of Tishman Speyer -- is a prominent board member. (The merger ultimately fell through.) 
 Mr. Speyer and Ms. Farley, who married in 1991, have long been something of a power couple in New York's cultural world; Mr. Speyer is also chairman of the Museum of Modern Art. Precisely whose financial weight Ms. Farley will bring to bear as chairwoman -- an unpaid post that, in addition to soliciting donations, traditionally involves significant giving -- is ''not a distinction worth making,'' Mr. Bennack said. ''I don't know their individual financial positions,'' he added. ''As a couple, they've been generous.''
 Ms. Farley will maintain her position at Tishman Speyer, which she joined in 1984 and where she has led the international expansion into Europe, Latin America, India and China. She handles the firm's emerging-markets business in Brazil and China, heads the compensation committee and serves on the management, investment and executive committees. 
 She has also worked for other nonprofit causes, serving on the boards of Brown University and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and the board of overseers of the International Rescue Committee, which helps refugees. She was previously vice president of the Brearley School in Manhattan and is currently chairwoman emeritus of Women in Need, which provides housing and other support services to homeless women.
 ''She's very experienced in the governance of nonprofit institutions of all kinds,'' said Reynold Levy, the president of Lincoln Center, calling Ms. Farley ''resourceful'' in her approach to challenges. ''A frequent phrase of Katherine's,'' he said, ''is: 'What if we tried it this way?' or 'Imagine for a moment if we approach this problem from another angle,' or 'I had a thought last night.' ''
 Ms. Farley said that it was too early for her to outline a broad agenda for Lincoln Center, but that she planned to continue the institution's efforts to make the campus ''more accessible to the public, more user-friendly for younger audiences.''
 As for the fund-raising challenges ahead, Ms. Farley said, ''Today is a tough time to raise money, no doubt about that,'' but she was confident that Lincoln Center could meet its goal. Having raised $940 million for the redevelopment, the center has $235 million more to go. Its constituent groups, which are sharing the cost of the project, have $100 million left to raise.
 For his part, Mr. Bennack, 76, said he looked forward to the day when he did not have to raise money for the country's largest performing arts center while also managing one of the country's largest media companies -- both in a tough economic climate. 
 ''Clearly my life is more complicated than it was when I began this journey at Lincoln Center,'' he said, ''and while I'm happy to do what is necessary to the end of next year, I need more time at some point for other things, including for myself -- I've been a very busy guy.''
 At the same time, the yearlong transition ''just seems right,'' Mr. Bennack added. ''There's more I want to do before I step down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katherine G. Farley, Lincoln Center's new chairwoman, with Reynold Levy, left, president, and Frank A. Bennack Jr., chairman now.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (93%); EXECUTIVES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); BALLET (66%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



220 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Hey Folks, We're Not So Bad

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
There is Ally Bank: ''A better kind of bank.'' And A.I.U.: ''A unique franchise.'' And -- really -- Redneck Bank: ''Where bankin's funner!''
 All are new names and new slogans for old companies with big worries and, in some cases, even bigger image problems. 
 Ally is the lender formerly known as GMAC Bank, once part of now bankrupt General Motors. Change that ''U'' to a ''G'' in A.I.U. and you get A.I.G., the American International Group, which owns A.I.U. Redneck is the new name for the online arm of plain old Bank of the Wichitas. 
 First came the bailout, now comes the burnishing. Not since the Great Depression has the nation's financial industry confronted so much bad P.R. So with cheery, the-future-is-bright advertising and, in some cases, revisionist branding, companies are trying to put their troubled pasts behind them, or at least out of the public's mind. 
 The messages vary, but the overarching theme is the same: Can't we all just move on? 
 ''The fundamental value of financial institutions is clouded by the anger and the confusion people feel,'' said Anne Finucane, the chief marketing officer at Bank of America, which quickly decided to erase Countrywide's name after acquiring that mortgage lender. ''We are an optimistic society. Individuals and companies want to move ahead. They want to get on with their lives. They want the banking industry to help them.''
 Many banking executives hope the nation will take a kinder view of their industry on Tuesday, when nine big banks are expected to get the go-ahead to return billions of bailout dollars. But ordinary Americans may not forget the financial catastrophe any time soon. After the Depression, some say it took 20 years for popular anger and skepticism around the banks to dissipate. 
 Whatever the case now, some banks are working hard to polish their images. GMAC Bank, by dint of its name and the billions of bailout dollars that GMAC has received, smacks of Detroit and the tumble-down car industry. So in May the company rechristened its online bank Ally, as in friend. 
 Its new symbol is a stylized purple lower-case ''a,'' sort of a smiling swoosh. Its ad campaign, by BBH New York, projects a straightforward, nothing-to-hide image. ''We make money with you, not off you,'' one ad reads. 
 The financial industry is not merely courting public opinion. It is also courting Washington, where banks are trying to fend off some types of regulation. White House officials have cited the lack of public trust as a central problem for the industry. Marketing studies are finding that some banking brands have plummeted in value. 
 Most banks have been reluctant to apologize outright for the financial mess. Instead, many want customers and policy makers to focus on the future and, in particular, on how the industry is helping to pull the economy out of its deep recession. 
 In advertisements and P.R. chitchat, many banks say they are making loans and helping hard-pressed homeowners shoulder their mortgages. Critics maintain the banks are not doing nearly enough. 
 Bankers also contend that a Wall Street version of natural selection has already culled the industry's worst offenders. 
 ''Some of the people who were the most egregious players, they're not around,'' said James E. Rohr, the chief executive of PNC. ''The fact that they haven't stepped up and said they're sorry, well, they don't have a platform.''
 PNC hopes to polish its image with the help of a new advertising agency, Deutsche, which has done work for Kodak and Ikea.
 PNC hired Deutsche after the bank acquired the National City Corporation of Ohio. Other ad agencies like Leo Burnett (the minds behind McDonald's ads) and McCann Erickson (maker of MasterCard's ''Priceless'' spots) showered PNC with data on banking consumers and ideas on the financial crisis. 
 A report that Deutsche presented to PNC captured the angst many American are feeling about their finances. It quoted people saying: ''I'm petrified,'' and ''There's definitely a lot of risk in my decisions right now.'' 
 But Val DiFebo, the president of Deutsche, said that consumers now seem to be feeling a bit better about banks. ''We wouldn't characterize it as anger anymore,'' Ms. DiFebo said. ''We would say that consumers are past the angry phase, and everybody's waiting to see what the banks will do.'' 
 It is difficult for banks to know exactly when the public mood is shifting. In January, for instance, Bank of America introduced a television spot called ''Keep Moving Forward.'' It featured doors opening -- on a barn, an airplane cockpit, elevators and factories. The spot did little to smooth over the bank's troubles, and its chief, Kenneth D. Lewis, remains under considerable pressure. 
 Washington policy makers are acutely aware of the public's dim view of the industry. Last month, in a meeting with banking chiefs, Lawrence H. Summers, the president's chief economics adviser, chided banking chiefs, saying they did not understand the depth of public anger. ''The financial system used to be seen as a positive asset to the United States,'' he told them. 
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, fired back.
 ''Well, tell us, Larry, when was that golden era?'' Mr. Blankfein responded, according to three people who attended the Financial Services Forum meeting. ''Was it 1954? Was it 1927?'' 
 Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, told Mr. Summers that the government, as much as anyone, was fueling people's resentment. 
 ''It's time for you to stop vilifying all bankers and banks,'' said Mr. Dimon, whose bank has posted a series of videos called ''The Way Forward'' on its Web site.
 Industry giants like Citigroup are reviewing their public image and trying to keep a relatively low profile. Many are reluctant to be seen as spending lavishly, on ads or anything else. Citigroup and other large banks have actually reduced their ad spending, according to Nielsen Monitor-Plus, and are instead trying to clean up their images in other ways, such as media relations and philanthropic efforts.. 
 Citigroup spun out a series of public service ads called ''The Citi View'' in December, just after a second patch of government aid. The ads provide tips on saving money, like automatically transferring money from checking to savings accounts, or taking your lunch to work. 
 After buying the Countrywide Financial Group, the big mortgage company that for many symbolized the excesses of the subprime era, Bank of America quickly rebranded the lender. Last month, Bank of America released a large campaign for its mortgage business, promising straight-forward terms. ''Home has a new address,'' says one ad, made by BBDO, the agency behind brands like Campbell's, FedEx and AT&T. 
 Steve Fraser, author of ''Wall Street: America's Dream Palace,'' said the banking industry, whatever its ad message, might struggle to regain trust. That is what happened during the Depression and for years after. 
 ''The anger turned to skepticism and a certain caution.'' Mr. Fraser said. ''And it lasted for decades.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Tuesday about banks' efforts to burnish their images with cheerful advertising misspelled the name of the agency that is creating ads for PNC Bank. It is Deutsch, not Deutsche.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ally Bank, formerly GMAC Bank, hints at friendship.
A playful image from Redneck Bank, the newly renamed online division of Bank of the Wichitas.
 A television commercial for Bank of America, which bought the troubled mortgage lender Countrywide, envisions better times. (pg.B7) DRAWING (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); INTERNET BANKING (78%); BRANDING (77%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



221 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: In Beirut Vote, Signs for U.S.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon 

 BODY:
There were many domestic reasons voters handed an American-backed coalition a victory in Lebanese parliamentary elections on Sunday -- but political analysts also attribute it in part to President Obama's campaign of outreach to the Arab and Muslim world. 
 Most analysts had predicted that the Hezbollah-led coalition, already a crucial power broker in the Lebanese government because of its support from Shiites who make up a large part of Lebanon's population, would win handily. In the end, though, the American-aligned coalition won 71 seats, while the Syria-Iranian aligned opposition, which includes Hezbollah, took only 57. 
 It is hard to draw firm conclusions from one election. But for the first time in a long time, being aligned with the United States did not lead to defeat in the Middle East. And since Lebanon has always been a critical testing ground, that could mark a possibly significant shift in regional dynamics with another major election, in Iran, on Friday. 
 With Mr. Obama's speech on relations with Muslims still fresh in Lebanese minds, analysts point to steps the administration has taken since assuming office.
 Washington is now proposing talking to Hezbollah's patrons, Iran and Syria, rather than confronting them -- a move that undermines the group's attempt to demonize the United States. The United States is also no longer pressing its allies in the Lebanese government to unilaterally disarm Hezbollah, which, given the party's considerable remaining clout, could have provoked a crisis. 
 ''Lebanon is a telling case,'' said Osama Safa, director of the Lebanese Center for Policy Studies here. ''It is no longer relevant for the extremists to use the anti-American card. It does look like the U.S. is moving on to something new.''
 In fact, some analysts said that it was possible that Lebanon's election could be a harbinger of Friday's presidential race in Iran, where a hard-line anti-American president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, may be losing ground to his main moderate challenger, Mir Hussein Moussavi. 
 While President Ahmadinejad has grown unpopular for many reasons, including his troubled stewardship of the economy, political analysts said that President Obama had blunted the appeal of Mr. Ahmadinejad's confrontation with the West.
 The results in Lebanon may also make it more difficult for Israel to capitalize on fears of Hezbollah dominance and shift the conversation away from the peace process with the Palestinians -- a tactic that many analysts here attributed to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
 ''I think the speech of Obama in Cairo more likely played a role in neutralizing anti-Americanism,'' said Khalil al-Dakhil, a sociologist from Saudi Arabia. ''It was a positive message. It was a conciliatory message.'' 
 Nonetheless, there are many other factors at play that do not depend on the United States. The Lebanese election did little to change the balance of power in a country where Hezbollah is by far the strongest player. Christians, who played a moderating role and have traditionally tilted toward the United States, are not a political force elsewhere in the region. And it will probably be weeks, even months, before all sides can agree on the makeup of a new government, suggesting the paralysis that has often enveloped Lebanon's government may continue. 
 Power in Lebanon is divided along sectarian lines. Christians control half of the 128-seat Parliament. The other half is divided among Sunnis, Shiites, Druse and a few other sects. In this election, Shiites voted largely with Hezbollah and the opposition, and Sunnis and Druse mostly voted with the majority. The real contest was among Christians, who were divided between the camps this time around. And here the American-backed, Sunni-led coalition appears to have conducted a well-calculated negative campaign, stoking sectarian tensions and fears of Iranian and Syrian dominance. 
 The opposition fought back, with Hezbollah and its allies charging that the March 14 coalition, as the Western-backed parties are known, has allowed the United States to control Lebanon and serves as an agent of Israel.
 But among important Christian swing voters, fears of Iran and Syria appeared to trump concerns about interference from Washington. 
 When Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. visited Lebanon in late May, and appeared to threaten withdrawal of financial aid if the opposition won, that was widely derided as a kiss of death. But now, some political analysts believe the vice president may have helped by crystallizing for voters their choice: alliance with the United States, France and the regional allies, Egypt and Saudi Arabia; or with Iran and Syria and their allies, Hezbollah and Hamas.
 The fear was that Lebanon might have become isolated like the Gaza Strip.
 ''Evidently the majority of the Lebanese have resolved their minds; they don't want confrontation, they want peace,'' said Hilal Khashan, a political science professor at American University of Beirut.
 Final results showed that 54.8 percent of eligible voters turned out, far higher than the 28 percent who voted in 2005.
 The Lebanese Parliament will be divided almost exactly as it was, denying the new majority a mandate to govern alone. It has an increased legitimacy to form a government, but that legitimacy is largely symbolic. As a result, to preserve stability, the majority is likely to agree to a unity government that incorporates members of the opposition. 
 The biggest loser was a retired Christian general, Michel Aoun, leader of the Free Patriotic Movement. He entered into an alliance with Hezbollah and, had that alliance won, would have emerged as the most powerful Christian leader in the country. Instead, political analysts said that has emerged diminished.
 While those internal details were being worked out, all eyes are expected to shift to Iran for Friday's presidential election. An upset victory there for the challenger would not fundamentally alter Iran's priorities, but it would be taken as another step in the moderation of the region.
 ''Iran did not get a chip and neither did Syria,'' said Paul Salem, director of the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut. ''Today, the U.S., France, Egypt, Saudi, they all feel better.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Lebanon's pro-West coalition, called March 14, celebrated Monday in Beirut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); RELIGION (72%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); PEACE PROCESS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (77%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); CAIRO, EGYPT (78%) LEBANON (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SYRIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



222 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Frank Words to Workers About a Carrier's Future

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
 BRITISH newspaper readers are accustomed to blaring tabloid headlines, just not on the front page of the weekly company newsletter. Yet there it was for all British Airways employees to see, these blunt words in two-inch capital letters: FIGHT FOR SURVIVAL
 In case the point wasn't clear, a smaller headline underneath said, ''No recovery in sight.'' 
 These are tough times for airlines and especially for carriers like British Airways, which depend heavily on robust premium business travel. Willie Walsh, the company's chief executive, said he wanted to focus employees' attention. I spoke with him 10 days ago as he was returning to London from Logan International Airport in Boston after two days of meetings in New York and Boston to lay out his airline's financial realities to analysts.
 Airlines, like other big companies, often obfuscate their way through bad times, employing euphemisms like ''unforeseen challenges'' when they mean ''great big trouble.'' Mr. Walsh, a former pilot and former chief executive of Aer Lingus, has been running British Airways since October 2005. He is not coy about what he sees as a protracted, and possibly permanent, change in global airline fortunes.
 ''This is anything but a temporary blip,'' he said.
 British Airways reported its worst financial results ever, with a loss of $:375 million ($602 million) for the fiscal year ended March 31, compared with a net profit of $:712 million the previous year. 
 British Airways built its brand cachet on its premium cabin services, especially its highly regarded Club World business class. Although the airline never officially disclosed the fare breakdown, Club World until recently accounted for about 50 percent of the revenue on any flight. But premium business travel for British Airways and other big players in that market fell off significantly last fall, and has not been coming back.
 For most of this year, major airlines have been sharply discounting the seats in their business-class cabins. British Airways, for example, recently offered a $2,600 round-trip two-for-one sale in Club World, which made the price $1,300 for each companion traveler between New York and London.
 Compare that with the walk-up price for Club World, which was listed at $11,717 on Monday for the same round trip. The walk-up first-class round-trip fare was $16,835. Premium economy was $3,221 and basic economy $2,085.
 In the boom times that ended last year, Mr. Walsh said, those flexible walk-up fares, coupled with corporate volume discounts of up to 40 percent for major customers like the big investment banks, accounted for most of the revenue in premium classes.
 That is no longer the case, with advance purchases and less flexible fares now predominating and overall premium traffic plummeting.
 ''If you had looked at who our top 20 corporate customers were this time last year, nine of them were banks,'' Mr. Walsh said. That business has declined significantly, along with demand from financial services lawyers and affluent leisure travelers.
 And the problem isn't just on the East Coast-London routes. ''A lot of people assume this is a trans-Atlantic crisis, triggered by the collapse of the financial services businesses, mostly impacting London and New York,'' he said. ''But if you look at the figures on the global industry, overall premium traffic was down 19.2 percent for the first three months of this year, against about 15 percent at B.A. For the industry, trans-Atlantic premium travel was down about 17.8 percent -- bad but better than the worldwide average.'' 
 Across the airline industry, everybody is cutting costs and nobody yet sees a bottom. On the other hand, the major airlines can't stand still. British Airways, which is seeking antitrust exemptions for a deeper alliance with American Airlines, is taking delivery of four extended-range Boeing 777-300 aircraft this year. It has recently announced new service between London and Las Vegas.
 One stark reality is that those five-figure fares for premium travel are probably gone for good. Airline executives are now contemplating a future business-travel market in which flexibility -- many flights throughout the day -- will no longer command top dollar.
 Based on the former demand for flexibility, British Airways has 11 daily flights between London and New York. Mr. Walsh says that kind of frequency is unsustainable now. ''Given the fares, the business traveler wanted that flexibility to be able to leave at 4 or 5 or 6 o'clock, whatever. A big part of that market is gone. As customers' expectations change on fares, our operations need to reflect that.''
 British Airways plans to cut back service on what had once been its most lucrative route. ''We're planning on reducing the number of flights between London and New York,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (86%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (55%)

TICKER: AERL (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

PERSON: WILLIE WALSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



223 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Tight Race in Virginia as 3 Democrats Vie for Governor

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
When Virginia voters go to the polls Tuesday in the Democratic primary for governor, they will choose among three candidates who have distinguished themselves more by personality than politics during the fight to continue their party's recent winning streak in this historically conservative state.
 The candidates are Terry McAuliffe, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee; State Senator R. Creigh Deeds; and Brian J. Moran, a former member of the House of Delegates. The winner will oppose the Republican candidate, Robert F. McDonnell, in November. Mr. McDonnell, a former state legislator, was Virginia's attorney general until he resigned in February to seek the governorship. 
 The incumbent governor, Tim Kaine, a Democrat, is prevented by law from seeking a consecutive term. 
 The race is one of two elections for governor this year -- the other is in New Jersey -- and both national parties are strongly involved. 
 A close ally of Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. McAuliffe, 52, is a multimillionaire businessman with an outsize personality who held an early lead in statewide polls based largely on his ability to out-talk and outspend his opponents. 
 But his supercaffeinated style, dependence on out-of-state donors and lack of experience in state politics have undercut his popularity among some voters and undermined his claim that his national stature makes him the man to beat Mr. McDonnell. 
 And Mr. McAuliffe's pitch that his proven skill at making money -- as a banker, real estate developer, credit-card marketer and an Internet venture capitalist -- will bring prosperity to all Virginia comes as public mistrust of millionaires is high and unemployment in some parts of the state is near 14 percent.
 ''My argument is that if you're looking for someone new, someone who hasn't been part of the partisan bickering in Richmond, a business guy to come in and shake things up, then you should take a look at me,'' Mr. McAuliffe said Friday in an interview between campaign stops in Richmond and Charlottesville. 
 After most polls had the three candidates in a statistical dead heat for most of the race, Mr. Deeds opened up a slight lead over the weekend, but many voters were still undecided and turnout was expected to be low. 
 Both parties see more than a governor's seat at stake, with Virginia the latest front in the national red state-blue state battle.
 Democrats have defeated Republicans in two successive United States Senate elections in Virginia and held the governor's office for two terms, and Barack Obama carried the state last year, the first Democratic presidential candidate to do so since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. 
 Republicans, though, say they are hopeful in this race because Mr. McDonnell has generally polled better than any of the three Democrats running to oppose him. Republicans say they would strengthen their hand nationally if they can beat the Democrats vying to replace Mr. Kaine, the Democratic national chairman, in a state that Mr. Obama has courted over the past four years. 
 The three Democrats agree on most major issues. Each supports the death penalty, enforcement of immigration laws and higher salaries for teachers. Each has said he will bring new jobs and high-speed rail to Virginia. Mr. Moran opposes drilling for oil and gas off the state's coast, while Mr. McAuliffe backs limited drilling for natural gas only and Mr. Deeds is open to drilling for either. Their campaign strategies and personal styles pose the starkest contrasts. 
 Folksy and halting in his public speaking, Mr. Deeds, 51, is from Bath County, in the state's rural western sector. In 2005, he ran against Mr. McDonnell for attorney general, losing by fewer than 400 votes. The tortoise to Mr. McAuliffe's hare, Mr. Deeds was the first candidate to enter the race in 2007. He has been traveling the state ever since, gradually rising in the polls as he has met with voters in small groups to promote his legislative record.
 ''The knock on Mr. Deeds is that he's a nice guy -- an odd insult,'' The Washington Post editorial board wrote in endorsing him.
 Hailing his character, the newspaper said Mr. Deeds was the only candidate with a record of tough stands, including calling for an increased gasoline tax to tackle a shortfall in the transportation budget. ''Our judgment, from watching Mr. Deeds over the years,'' it said, ''is that he is more politically astute than his 'aw, shucks' persona might suggest.''
 Having spent two decades as a prosecutor and lawmaker, Mr. Moran, 49, also claims deep roots in the state. His approach, though, has been to argue that he is best equipped to win in November because he is the most progressive Democrat in the race and the most able to rally support from liberal voters in Northern Virginia, the fastest-growing part of the state. 
 ''Unlike my friend Creigh, I support the Second Amendment, but I don't dance whenever the N.R.A. tells me to,'' said Mr. Moran, jabbing at Mr. Creeds, who won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association in his 2005 attorney general race.
 Mr. Moran, from Alexandria, added that he was the only candidate who had said he would try to repeal the state's 2006 constitutional amendment banning contractual agreements to sanctify same-sex relationships. 
 In the end, Tuesday's result may come down, as it often does, to infrastructure, said Larry Sabato, a political science professor at the University of Virginia.
 To win, Mr. McAuliffe will need his get-out-the-vote machine to counter the help Mr. Moran is likely to receive from the two dozen or so mayors and local elected officials who are expected to push their constituents to go to the polls and support him, Mr. Sabato said. 
 Still, as the Democrats look to November, they will need to close the gap with Mr. McDonnell, who has raised about $8.9 million. Mr. McAuliffe leads the Democrats, with roughly $6.9 million; Mr. Moran is next, having reported raising $3.8 million, with Mr. Deeds at $2.8 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terry McAuliffe, former Democratic national chairman, with Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Brian J. Moran, left, a former member of Virginia's House, debating State Senator R. Creigh Deeds, a fellow Democrat. The primary winner will face Robert F. McDonnell, a Republican. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TIM KAINE (79%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (93%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



224 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Support for Bloomberg, and Fatigue

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Marina Stefan, Dalia Sussman and Megan Thee-Brenan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Despite generally broad approval for the job Michael R. Bloomberg has done as mayor, a majority of New Yorkers say that he does not deserve another term in office and that they would like to give someone else a chance, according to a poll conducted by The New York Times, Cornell University and NY1 News.
 With anxiety rising over a difficult economy, few surveyed have a lot of confidence in Mr. Bloomberg's ability to lead the city out of the recession, a troubling sign for a mayor who cited his financial acumen as the rationale for his undoing of the term limits law that otherwise would have forced him from office.
 In addition, some 51 percent say that the city is on the wrong track, while 40 percent say it is going in the right direction. 
 And though Mr. Bloomberg has sought to elevate his image nationally and internationally as a bold-thinking mayor with a record of innovation and results, New Yorkers in the survey struggle when asked to identify any particular achievement of his tenure. More than a third of those polled could not offer any answer when asked what was the best thing Mr. Bloomberg has done since he became mayor almost eight years ago.
 Despite the poll's findings, Mr. Bloomberg maintains tremendous advantages heading into November's city election. In addition to the powers of incumbency, the mayor has already poured $20 million into the race and has indicated he could spend as much as $100 million to win another term.
 His presumptive Democratic opponent in November, the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., is largely unknown, with almost three-quarters of respondents saying they have not heard enough about Mr. Thompson to form an opinion, even though he has been a citywide official for the same duration as Mr. Bloomberg.
 While New Yorkers have concerns about the economy and the state of the city and they would like to see a new mayor, at the same time they think Mr. Bloomberg has been doing a good job. The latest poll shows that 60 percent of residents approve of Mr. Bloomberg's job performance, while 34 percent disapprove.
 The poll of 683 New York City adults was conducted by telephone from May 29 to June 3. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.
 In follow-up interviews with those surveyed, a sense emerged that Mr. Bloomberg has tried his best under difficult circumstances, but that a fresh perspective could be healthy. That is a change from four years ago, when a majority said that Mr. Bloomberg deserved re-election.
 ''I think the city's needs change as time goes on,'' said Deborah Fantera, an architect who lives in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. ''And I also think there's a complacency that happens when someone has been in their position too long.'' 
 Eric Weinstock, an economist and Democrat who lives in Flushing, Queens, said that Mr. Bloomberg had done a poor job of controlling spending and taxes. That opinion mirrored the finding that 58 percent of those surveyed said their city taxes have risen under Mr. Bloomberg.
 ''Bloomberg was supposed to be not just another politician but a businessman and smarter on the economy than anyone else,'' Mr. Weinstock said. ''That's why we elected him, because he was different. But he wasn't different.''
 Mr. Bloomberg is no stranger to wild fluctuations in popularity. In a New York Times poll from June 2003, for example, only 24 percent of those polled approved of his performance, citing job losses, tax increases and service cuts. It was the lowest approval rating for a mayor since The Times began taking polls on mayoral performance in 1978.
 But Mr. Bloomberg's numbers rose later in that term as more New Yorkers credited him for trying to overhaul public education and fight crime, as well as his success in banning smoking from restaurants.
 ''I approve of what Bloomberg has done for New York City,'' said Leo Pachter, a retired businessman in East Elmhurst, Queens, who is a Democrat. ''I feel he wants to complete what he's doing and make more improvements.''
 The mayor is also personally popular, with 48 percent expressing a favorable view of him and 26 percent a negative view. Among black residents, the mayor's favorability is 10 points lower -- 38 percent have a positive opinion of him, 33 percent a negative one. Black New Yorkers and Democrats are also more likely to say that it is time for a new person as mayor, the survey finds.
 Mr. Bloomberg is also credited with doing a good job handling the city's latest crisis: the outbreak of H1N1, or swine flu. Almost three-quarters of those surveyed say that the city has provided enough information about the outbreak, and 70 percent say that they are satisfied with the city's response.
 Yet the majority of New Yorkers say important aspects of city life, including affordable housing and crime, have either deteriorated or stayed the same since Mr. Bloomberg took office.
 And even though New York City's public school students showed substantial gains on state math tests this year, particularly in the middle school grades, most people are dissatisfied with the quality of public schools.
 The poll shows that the recession is affecting city residents in personal and tangible ways. A third say someone in their household experienced unemployment in the past year, and most say the unemployment had a serious effect on the family's standard of living.
 While almost 60 percent say that the mayor can have a big impact on the economy, only 20 percent have a lot of confidence in Mr. Bloomberg's ability to bring new jobs to the city. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has unleashed a flood of television ads in recent months, publicizing his concern for average working New Yorkers and promoting his economic recovery program for the five boroughs. He has been eager at news conferences to move beyond the polarizing battle over his successful push to revise the term limits law last fall, which enabled him and other officials to seek four more years in office.
 But the survey finds that residents are unhappy over that change, with 58 percent saying they disapprove of the term limits extension and 37 percent saying they approve.
 ''Eight years is long enough for a politician to do his service,'' said George Chin, a retired financial consultant and political independent who lives on the Lower East Side. ''Lengthening terms sets up some sort of crony system where things get stagnant and politicians get too chummy with all the people they work with. I approve of Bloomberg, but I probably would not vote for him because term limits is a significant issue, and it's time to get someone else in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A majority of New Yorkers say that Mayor Bloomberg does not deserve another term in office. (POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD RACHMAN) (pg.A22) CHART: MAYOR BLOOMBERG'S PERFORMANCE: New Yorkers, unhappy about term-limits extension, say Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg doesn't deserve re-election. Yet his approval rating is high. (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



225 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Renovated High Line Now Open for Strolling

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Standing on a newly renovated stretch of an elevated promenade that was once a railway line for delivering cattle -- surrounded by advocates, elected officials and architects who made the transformation happen -- Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg cut a red ribbon on Monday morning to signify that the first phase of the High Line is finished and ready for strolling. 
 Calling the High Line, which opens to the public on Tuesday, ''an extraordinary gift to our city's future,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''Today we're about to unwrap that gift.'' He added, ''It really does live up to its highest expectations.'' 
 The first portion of the three-section High Line, which runs near the Hudson River from Gansevoort Street to West 20th Street, will be open daily from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. There are entrances at Gansevoort Street (stairs) and at 16th Street (elevator); exits are located every few blocks.
 The second phase, which extends to 30th Street, is under construction and expected to be completed by fall 2010. The third phase, up to 34th Street, has yet to be approved.
 The High Line project is something of a New York fairy tale, given that it started with a couple of guys who met at a community board meeting in 1999 -- Joshua David, a writer, and Robert Hammond, a painter -- and discovered they shared a fervent interest in saving the abandoned railroad trestle, which had been out of commission since 1980 and was slated for demolition during the Giuliani administration. That began a decade-long endeavor that involved rescuing the structure and enlisting the Bloomberg administration in its preservation and renovation.
 Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, called the project ''a great West Side story.''
 The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, described it as ''a miracle of perseverance,'' and said, ''The idea could easily have gone into a file, 'great ideas that will never happen.' ''
 With all the bureaucratic hurdles that the project had to overcome, it was fitting that so many representatives of different arms of local government were there for Monday's celebratory news conference, including Amanda M. Burden, the city planning commissioner; Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner; Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York; and Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. Also present were two couples who have been the project's major benefactors -- Diane von Furstenberg, the fashion designer, and her husband, the media mogul Barry Diller, and Philip Falcone, a hedge fund billionaire, and his wife, Lisa Maria Falcone.
 The walkway, designed by James Corner Field Operations and Diller Scofidio & Renfro, includes more than 100 species of plants that were inspired by the wild seeded landscape left after the trains stopped running, Mr. Bloomberg said. He added that the High Line has helped to further something of a renaissance in the neighborhood; more than 30 new projects are planned or under construction nearby. 
 One of those projects includes a new satellite for the Whitney Museum of American Art, designed by Renzo Piano, which will anchor the base of the High Line at Gansevoort. The mayor announced on Monday that the city was finalizing a land sale contract with the museum.
 The first two sections of the High Line cost $152 million, Mr. Bloomberg said, $44 million of which was raised by Friends of the High Line, the group that led the project. 
 All of the speakers' comments echoed the triumphal subject line of an e-mail message sent out by Friends of the High Line right after the festivities had concluded: ''We did it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The High Line's newly renovated section, running from Gansevoort Street to West 20th Street, opens to the public Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); WRITERS (64%); FASHION DESIGN (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%); JERROLD NADLER (57%); PHILIP FALCONE (50%); BARRY DILLER (50%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



226 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: White House Cites Progress On Economy Under Plan

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The rising unemployment rate is giving President Obama's critics an opportunity to raise questions about the effectiveness of his recovery plan and his economic leadership. The huge budget deficit is focusing fresh concern on the national debt.
 So Mr. Obama began a new effort on Monday to show that his stimulus plan was yielding concrete benefits, saying that his administration expects to save or create 600,000 more jobs this summer, as the federal government spends billions to expand care at health centers, spruce up national parks, hire teachers and improve military facilities.
 At a meeting with Mr. Obama and the cabinet, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. outlined 10 major initiatives that he said would ''build momentum and accelerate job growth'' over the next 100 days. After Mr. Biden ticked off a list of programs -- including water and waste projects in rural America and rehabilitation of 98 airports and 1,500 highways -- the president took aim at his critics. 
 ''Now I know that there are some who, despite all evidence to the contrary, still don't believe in the necessity and promise of the recovery act,'' Mr. Obama said, ''and I would suggest to them that they talk to the companies who, because of this plan, scrapped the idea of laying off employees and in fact decided to hire employees. Tell that to the Americans who receive that unexpected call saying, 'Come back to work.' ''
 A little less than four months after he signed the $787 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act into law, Mr. Obama is now in the position of trying to convince Americans that the stimulus measure -- his signature legislative achievement thus far -- is working, even as the job losses mount. 
 On Friday, the Department of Labor reported that unemployment was now 9.4 percent, the highest in 25 years, although the rate of monthly job losses dropped off in May. The president's top aides spent the weekend trying to tamp down expectations that the unemployment rate would turn around anytime soon. One adviser, Austan Goolsbee, told Fox News the nation was in for ''a rough patch,'' a phrase often invoked by Mr. Obama's predecessor, George W. Bush
 With Mr. Obama talking up the stimulus bill, Republicans went on the offensive.
 ''The Obama administration is continuing to fabricate job creation numbers related to the stimulus,'' Tony Fratto, a deputy press secretary in the Bush administration, said in an e-mail message to reporters. He added, ''Their so-called models would not stand the light of day.''
 The administration maintains that 150,000 jobs were either created or saved in the first 100 days after Mr. Obama signed the stimulus bill on Feb. 17. The 600,000 figure the president discussed Monday is not new; it was made public by Mr. Biden on May 13. It includes 125,000 part-time summer jobs for teenagers, which the administration counts as 62,500 full-time job equivalents. 
 Independent experts say those figures -- estimates based on macroeconomic models and projections -- are plausible, although they say it is very difficult to measure the number of jobs created. But Republicans say the teenage jobs estimate proves that there is less than meets the eye to the stimulus package.
 ''The administration looks dramatically out of touch as they highlight the creation of temporary summer employment in the face of job losses unseen in decades, record unemployment and massive deficits,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican whip.
 In preparing his report to the president, Mr. Biden said he had asked cabinet secretaries to give him a list of projects ''that they were absolutely certain of they could get up and running in the second hundred days.'' 
 The Department of Health and Human Services, the White House said, will either build or expand 1,129 health centers to provide service to approximately 300,000 additional patients across the country. The Justice Department will hire or keep approximately 5,000 law enforcement officers on the job. The Department of Veterans Affairs will begin improvements at 90 veterans medical centers across 38 states.
 By spotlighting specific projects that he expects will get under way this summer, Mr. Obama may be trying to use his presidential platform to prod states into spending the federal dollars at a critical period, when the weather is more conducive to construction projects in the Northeast and teenagers are free to work, giving a temporary boost to the job market, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.
 ''The economy is at a very key juncture,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''We are right at a turning point from recession to recovery. If they can juice things up just even a bit, that may make a big difference.''
 But complicating Mr. Obama's efforts are the predictions of two of his own economic advisers: Jared Bernstein, the top economist for the vice president, and Christina D. Romer, the chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. In January, 10 days before Mr. Obama was inaugurated, they released a report forecasting that the unemployment rate would remain at 8 percent or below in 2009 if the plan were enacted. 
 ''When they passed this spending plan, Democrats said it would immediately create jobs,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, ''yet nearly four months later, unemployment has continued to climb and none of their rosy predictions have come true.''
 Mr. Bernstein, addressing reporters on Monday at a contentious White House briefing, conceded that his forecast had been ''clearly too optimistic.'' He said it had not taken into account figures from the fourth quarter of last year, because those numbers were not available at the time. But he said unemployment would be higher were it not for the economic recovery package. 
 ''Job losses would have been deeper,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''The unemployment rate would have been -- by our estimate, by the end of next year would have been between one and a half and two points higher than it otherwise will be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met Monday with the cabinet on the recovery act. Critics dispute the administration's job numbers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (56%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE BIDEN (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



227 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW HOT 97'S SUMMER JAM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Hot Time: The Living Is Gritty

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

 BODY:
As is the wont with Hot 97's Summer Jam, an annual reckoning of the hip-hop and R&B pecking order, this year's show at Giants Stadium here on Sunday night essentially came to an end well before the last act finished its set. But in a twist this year the festivities began early -- two nights prior, to be specific. All last week the New York radio station known as Hot 97 had been hyping a transformative event: not Sunday night's five-hour concert but the Friday night premiere of a new song by the not-quite-retired Jay-Z. A listener could have been forgiven for forgetting that there was a show at all. 
 As Jay-Z records go, the song, ''D.O.A. (Death of Auto-Tune),'' is middling. As Jay-Z concepts go, it's positively retrograde, perhaps the first sign that he views the genre from the perspective of a petulant, misguided elder: ''I know we facing a recession/But the music y'all making gonna make it the Great Depression,'' he scolds, well, it's not clear exactly who. In a radio interview on Friday night he graciously gave authenticity passes to T-Pain, Kanye West and Lil Wayne, the biggest Auto-Tune offenders. ''My raps don't have melodies,'' the song goes -- somewhat melodically, it should be said.
 But still, Jay-Z knows an open lane when he sees one. This year's Summer Jam lineup wasn't promising: no clear hip-hop headliner, no promise of imminent conflict. And so 48 hours after the premiere of ''D.O.A.'' on Hot 97, giving the station a boost, he emerged to perform it during Young Jeezy's Summer Jam set, giving a boost to a show in dire straits and ruining the night for all performers yet to come.
 Jay-Z's stunt aside, this was the least engaging Summer Jam in years and also the least meaningful. There were some unexpected high points: Mary J. Blige turned in a gritty set of adult-contemporary soul (and was joined by an invigorated Method Man and Redman). Performing late in the night T-Pain was indefatigable and charming. (He also came out during Jay-Z's song, grinning cheesily and momentarily triumphing over Jay-Z himself.) 
 There was no Lil Wayne or Kanye West, though. No T. I. No Beyonce or Rihanna. Not even Rick Ross. Lesser stars were absent too. The Canadian newcomer Drake made a brief appearance during Young Jeezy's set, but where was the Atlanta rapper O J Da Juiceman, who's become a New York radio staple thanks to his hit ''Make tha Trap Say Aye'' and his appearance on Jadakiss's ''Who's Real?'' Why was Fabolous, one of New York's most impressive and ubiquitous rappers, relegated to a walk-on during The-Dream's set? Instead there were bits of R&B (Day26, Pleasure P and The-Dream, who hopefully stuck around to watch T-Pain) and reggae (Serani, Mavado and an Elephant Man) that by night's end were barely memories.
 New York hip-hop radio, and by extension Summer Jam, isn't necessarily hostile to out-of-town artists so much as out-of-town aesthetics. The G S Boyz, from Dallas, have one of the year's sunniest songs, ''Stanky Legg'' (with an accompanying dance, naturally), and were relegated to a secondary stage, early in the day. But so were DJ Webstar and Ron Browz, local acts who make just the sort of Auto-Tune-driven songs that Jay-Z would lambaste later in the night.
 The Jay-Z moments display how New York can still get excited about one of its own, or needs to: local rap heroes are tough to come by these days. Jadakiss muscled through an emphatic, short set early in the night, marching out to ''2 Gunz Up,'' triggering one of the night's most fervent responses. His guest-filled set -- Styles P, Sheek Louch, Busta Rhymes, Swizz Beatz, Jeremih -- was a study in Summer Jam classicism.
 Met less enthusiastically were Jim Jones and Juelz Santana, who closed the night with a ramshackle performance during which they teased the crowd by playing a few bars of Cam'ron's ''Touch It or Not.'' There's longstanding beef between these former crew mates, and in prior years, perhaps, Summer Jam would have been the place for their reconciliation, or for confrontation.
 Not this year though. Even Jay-Z knows the brand has been diminished. Before performing ''D.O.A.'' he delivered his verse from the remix of Young Jeezy's ''Put On,'' running down his list of accomplishments at Summer Jams past: ''I put Mike Jack on stage at Summer Jam, Billie Jean/I put Prodigy in his place on that Summer Jam screen.'' He might someday rap about having stolen this show too, but really it was there for the taking.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hot 97 Summer Jam 2009: Jay-Z, left, and T-Pain onstage at Giants Stadium on Sunday night in an annual hip-hop and R&B show.(C1)
 Mary J. Blige at Giants Stadium on Sunday night.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); MUSIC (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (93%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (90%); LIL WAYNE (78%); KANYE WEST (58%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



228 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words

 BODY:
CHRYSLER SALE AWAITS The Supreme Court has delayed the sale of most of Chrysler's assets to Fiat pending consideration of an appeal by three Indiana state funds and several consumer groups. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, above, said the sale was stayed pending the court's review. 
 PUTTING ON A HAPPY FACE Banks are trying to put their troubles behind them with happy advertising and, in some cases, revisionist branding. Advertising. [B1.] 
 SHELL SETTLES NIGERIA CASE Royal Dutch Shell, the big oil company, will pay $15.5 million to settle a case alleging it took part in human rights abuses in the Niger Delta in the early 1990s. [B1.] 
 TROUBLE FOR A SHEIK Sheik Sulaiman al-Fahim of Abu Dhabi has a flashy lifestyle and is trying to buy a soccer team in Britain's Premier League, but his work as a real estate developer is overshadowing that. [B1.] 
 BOSTON GLOBE OFFER REJECTED Facing the threat of a 23 percent pay cut, the largest union at The Boston Globe rejected an offer of a smaller trim of wages and benefits by the newspaper's owner, the New York Times Company. [B1.] 
 A HEDGE FUND REBOUND Hedge funds are enjoying a resurgence, rising more than 5 percent in May and more than 9 percent for the year. [B5.] 
 EX-EXECUTIVES DENIED APPEAL The Supreme Court has declined to hear an appeal by Tyco's former chief executive and former chief financial officer. [B2.] 
 AN AIRLINE IN TROUBLE The trouble at British Airways results from a loss of business travel. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [B6.]
 The global airline industry has almost doubled its prediction for losses this year. [B4.] 
 FULL NAMES, PLEASE The Transportation Security Administration will soon be checking airline passenger lists for names of terrorists, so travelers should be ready to provide their full names and dates of birth. [B6.]
 BAIN BUYS STAKE IN RETAILER Bain Capital, the private equity firm, will invest up to $400 million in the big Chinese retailer Gome Electrical Appliances. [B4.]
 INTEREST RATE WORRIESStocks changed little as investors worried about an increase in interest rates. [B11.] 
 NO CHANGE FOR ROSE After winemakers protested, the European Commission decided not to increase the ways that rose wine is produced. Xavier de Volontat, the president of a French wine industry group, called it ''a very sensible decision.'' [B4.]
 WHY GAS PRICES ARE UP Problems at refineries are blamed for rising gasoline prices. [B1.]
 QWEST STOPS ITS AUCTIONQwest Communications International, the telecommunications company, is halting the auction of its nationwide long-haul data and telephone network. [B2.] 
 REGULATOR TO STEP DOWN Mark W. Olson, the chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that regulates auditors, is stepping down. [B3.] 
 A NEW IPHONE Apple introduces its new iPhone, the 3G S. [B3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (86%); AIRLINES (86%); SMARTPHONES (83%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 3G WIRELESS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); AUCTIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); SOCCER (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); WINERIES (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (54%); GOME ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES HOLDINGS LTD (53%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (52%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); 0493 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (53%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC5722 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: RUTH BADER GINSBURG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NIGERIA (79%); NIGER (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



229 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Spending Disparities Set Off a Fight in the Effort to Overhaul Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama recently summoned aides to the Oval Office to discuss a magazine article investigating why the border town of McAllen, Tex., was the country's most expensive place for health care. The article became required reading in the White House, with Mr. Obama even citing it at a meeting last week with two dozen Democratic senators.
 ''He came into the meeting with that article having affected his thinking dramatically,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. ''He, in effect, took that article and put it in front of a big group of senators and said, 'This is what we've got to fix.' '' 
 As part of the larger effort to overhaul health care, lawmakers are trying to address the problem that intrigues Mr. Obama so much -- the huge geographic variations in Medicare spending per beneficiary. Two decades of research suggests that the higher spending does not produce better results for patients but may be evidence of inefficiency. 
 Members of Congress are seriously considering proposals to rein in the growth of health spending by taking tens of billions of dollars of Medicare money away from doctors and hospitals in high-cost areas and using it to help cover the uninsured or treat patients in lower-cost regions.
 Those proposals have alarmed lawmakers from higher-cost states like Florida, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York. But they have won tentative support among some lawmakers from Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, Oregon and Washington, who say their states have long been shortchanged by Medicare.
 Nationally, according to the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, Medicare spent an average of $8,304 per beneficiary in 2006. Among states, New York was tops, at $9,564, and Hawaii was lowest, at $5,311. 
 Researchers at Dartmouth Medical School have also found wide variations within states and among cities. Medicare spent $16,351 per beneficiary in Miami in 2006, almost twice the average of $8,331 in San Francisco, they said.
 The Senate Finance Committee recently suggested that one way to pay for health care overhaul would be to reduce geographic variations by cutting or capping Medicare payments in ''areas where per-beneficiary spending is above a certain threshold, compared with the national average.''
 Another proposal would spare health care providers in low-spending, efficient areas from across-the-board cuts in Medicare payments.
 The committee chairman, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, and the panel's senior Republican, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, are from lower-spending states.
 But the proposals are not just pork-barrel politics. They are based on the research by Dartmouth experts who have documented wide geographic variations in health spending. The research has become phenomenally influential on Capitol Hill since it was popularized by Peter R. Orszag, as director of the Congressional Budget Office and then as President Obama's budget director.
 Aides said Mr. Obama had been intrigued by regional variations in health spending since before his inauguration. The topic came up at a meeting with Mr. Orszag in Chicago late last year. 
 The magazine article, by Dr. Atul Gawande in the June 1 issue of The New Yorker, said a major cause of the high costs in McAllen was ''overuse of medical care.''
 Dr. Elliott S. Fisher, one of the Dartmouth researchers, diagnosed the problem this way: ''Medicare beneficiaries in higher spending regions are hospitalized more frequently, are referred to specialists more often and have a much smaller proportion of their visits to primary care physicians.''
 In his blog last month, Mr. Orszag wrote, ''The higher-cost areas and hospitals don't generate better outcomes than the lower-cost ones.''
 But other researchers and politicians are not so sure. They say it would be a mistake to cut or cap Medicare payments without knowing why spending in some places far exceeds the national average.
 ''There is too much uncertainty about the Dartmouth study to use it as a basis for public policy,'' said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''Researchers can't explain why some areas of the country spend more on health care than others. There are many reasons spending could vary: higher costs of living, sicker people or more teaching hospitals.''
 ''States like Massachusetts are concentrated centers of medical innovation where cutting-edge treatments are tested and some of the nation's finest doctors are trained,'' Mr. Kerry added. ''This work might cost a little more, but it benefits the entire country.''
 Madeline H. Otto, an aide to Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, said he was ''adamantly opposed'' to the proposed cuts in higher-spending areas because the cuts did not distinguish between necessary and unnecessary care.
 Mr. Orszag says health spending could be reduced by as much as 30 percent, or $700 billion a year, without compromising the quality of care, if more doctors and hospitals practiced like those in low-cost areas. The supply of hospitals, medical specialists and high-tech equipment ''appears to generate its own demand,'' Mr. Orszag has said.
 A Democrat from a low-spending state said critics were trying to ''blow holes in the Dartmouth analysis.''
 Dr. Michael L. Langberg, senior vice president of Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, is among the critics.
 ''The statement that Medicare costs can be cut by 30 percent has been repeated so many times that it has come to be viewed as a proven fact by some,'' Dr. Langberg said in a recent letter to the Senate Finance Committee. ''It is not a fact. It is a gross oversimplification of an untested theory.''
 Dr. Langberg endorsed the goal of covering the uninsured, but said, ''We do not believe that rushing to make large cuts in Medicare payments to hospitals is the right way to fund that coverage.'' The Dartmouth team has cited Cedars-Sinai as having very high Medicare spending per beneficiary.
 Research by Dr. Robert A. Berenson and Jack Hadley of the Urban Institute suggests that much of the geographic variation in health spending can be explained by differences in ''individual characteristics, especially patients' underlying health status and a range of socio-economic factors, including income.''
 ''Some patients may benefit from higher spending,'' said Mr. Hadley, who is also a professor at George Mason University in Virginia. ''They could be adversely affected if they live in geographic areas where payments are cut.''
 Dr. Berenson, who was a Medicare official in the Clinton administration, said, ''There remains too much uncertainty about the Dartmouth findings to ground public policy on them.''

GRAPHIC: MAP/CHART: Regional Variations in Medicare Costs: Spending per beneficiary in each state, 2006. New York ranks highest in Medicare spending per beneficiary, at $9,564, but there are wide variations within the state. Such disparities are also seen in large, populous states like Texas and Florida.(Source: The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); BUDGET CUTS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); RON WYDEN (57%); MAX BAUCUS (57%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (73%); MIAMI, FL, USA (54%) IOWA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



230 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: IPhone Stars in Apple Show, Supported by Software

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and JENNA WORTHAM

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Apple offered its devoted fans their periodic supply of catnip on Monday with a new version of the iPhone, called the iPhone 3G S.
 Apple announced some things that were characteristically Apple: more, better, faster features on its smartphones and computers. It also announced something that was not: lower prices. 
 The company said the third model of its hit phone, which looks physically identical to the last version but includes internal hardware and software improvements, will go on sale on June 19. Among the changes, the iPhone 3G S will have a three-megapixel camera that also records video, an internal digital compass and voice-control features that let owners use spoken commands to make calls and play music. 
 The S stands for speed, and upgraded internal components will allow the device to run more than twice as fast as the previous model, according to Philip W. Schiller, Apple's senior vice president for worldwide product marketing. Mr. Schiller delivered much of the keynote presentation at Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference, a meeting of Apple software makers that will last through Friday.
 Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, was not present, as some commentators had expected. Mr. Jobs is on a six-month medical leave and is not expected to return until later this month. 
 The iPhone 3G S, which will be available in both black and white, is priced at $199 for the 16-gigabyte version and $299 for the 32-gigabyte version. A spokesman for AT&T, Apple's exclusive iPhone partner in the United States, said that for now, it would not change the monthly prices on its iPhone voice and data plans. 
 Apple also announced it would sell the previous eight-gigabyte iPhone 3G for a price of $99, reduced from $199, on top of data and voice plans. That could make the iPhone accessible to cost-conscious consumers and undercut competitors like Palm. Palm's new smartphone, the Pre, which went on sale Saturday, costs $199 after a mail-in rebate. Sprint, which is selling the Pre exclusively, offers a two-year service contract that is cheaper than the one AT&T offers for the iPhone. 
 ''This puts a lot of pressure on the likes of RIM and Palm,'' said Charles Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company, referring to the BlackBerry maker Research in Motion. ''It sorts of upsets Palm's apple cart two days after the launch of the Pre.''
 Apple also used the industry gathering to announce new features and price cuts on its MacBook Pro line of laptops. All new MacBook Pros will feature up to seven hours of battery life -- a 40 percent increase from the last version, because of the new lithium-ion batteries Apple is using. The new batteries are sealed into the laptops, as opposed to the removable batteries that have been in previous MacBooks. Apple is saying the power units can be recharged up to 1,000 times -- up to three times as much as other batteries. New MacBook Pros will also feature an SD memory-card slot for simpler photo transfers.
 The new, lower prices suggest the company is taking aim at recession-wary consumers and is willing to sacrifice at least some profit to increase its share of the market for personal computers.
 But Apple did not budge on prices significantly. For example, the new 15-inch MacBook Pro now costs $1,699, $300 less than the previous version.
 ''I think there was a recognition that their prices are becoming increasingly disconnected from the market,'' said Toni Sacconaghi Jr., an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''But this was not a bold step into new price points.''
 AT&T said iPhone owners with existing contracts would have to pay more to upgrade to a new phone: $499 for the eight-gigabyte, $599 for the 16-gigabyte and $699 for the 32-gigabyte. However, current customers who are eligible for upgrades and those whose contracts have expired would pay the same price as a new customer, said Mark Siegel, executive director of media relations for AT&T mobility and consumer markets. The original iPhone was sold two years ago.
 TomTom, the maker of GPS systems for cars or personal use, also made a presentation at the conference, in which it said it was introducing a portable navigation application and car kit to provide drivers with turn-by-turn directions. TomTom executives were acknowledging that the iPhone and other smartphones were killing its market for stand-alone GPS hardware and that the company was entering the accessories and applications business.
 The new software for the iPhone also pushed the device more clearly into the portable game console arena occupied by Nintendo's DS and Sony's PSP. In what looks like another play for the iPhone to resemble a handheld gaming device, the new peer-to-peer connection feature will locate nearby users using Bluetooth and connect the two using Wi-Fi, allowing them to compete in various games.
 Much of Apple's presentation was devoted to software, both for the Macintosh computer and the iPhone. The company said a new version of its operating system for the Macintosh, called Snow Leopard, would be available in September. It will cost $29 for current Mac owners to upgrade and the operating system will be shipped with all new Macs.
 Snow Leopard includes new features that include enhanced global search that can now read URLs and text in Web pages; better compatibility with Microsoft Exchange, the dominant e-mail system used in businesses; and faster computing over all.
 Apple also said the new version of the iPhone's operating system, iPhone OS 3.0, will be made available free to current iPhone owners beginning June 17. The software will have more than 100 new features, including capabilities for multimedia messaging; cut, copy and paste tools; and search functions. It will also unlock features developers have eagerly awaited, like the ability to buy virtual goods or new gaming levels within applications.
 ScrollMotion, a start-up based in New York, unveiled an application at the convention called Iceberg, a digital bookstore that will let users purchase best sellers from within the application without having to open a browser. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Tuesday about new Apple products misstated the costs for some existing iPhone customers to upgrade to the new iPhone 3G S. Under what the company calls ''early upgrade pricing,'' customers who do not yet qualify for an upgrade, which usually occurs late in the two-year contract, will pay $499 for the 32-gigabyte model, $399 for the 16-gigabyte model and $299 for an older 8-gigabyte iPhone 3G -- not $699, $599 and $499, respectively.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Philip Schiller, an Apple vice president, spoke to the developers conference Monday at the Moscone Center in San Francisco.
 Scott Forstall, Apple's vice president for iPhone software, spoke of an application that helps owners retrieve lost phones. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); VOICE RECOGNITION (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); SALES REBATES (72%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); NEEDHAM & CO INC (62%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (52%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); RIM (TSX) (52%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



231 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: SUPREME COURT MOVES TO DELAY CHRYSLER'S SALE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Adam Liptak and Micheline Maynard contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Obama administration's effort to hurry Chrysler through bankruptcy court ran into an unexpected last-minute delay on Monday, when the Supreme Court said it could consider whether to hear the objections of three Indiana state funds and consumer groups. 
 The implications of the court's move -- Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg issued a one-sentence order that amounted to a holding action -- are unclear. 
 The delay could be resolved by Tuesday, freeing Chrysler to join forces with Fiat. But if the court decides to hear an appeal that lasts weeks or months, it could put Chrysler at risk of going out of business. Fiat, the only company to show an interest in acquiring most of the assets of Chrysler, can walk away from the deal if it is not concluded by June 15.
 In a broader context, such a decision would also give the justices an early opportunity to consider the scope of the wide-ranging but not unlimited authority that Congress granted the president to address the economic crisis. 
 Indeed, the Indiana funds explicitly compared the Chrysler case with Youngstown Sheet and Tube v. Sawyer, the 1952 decision in which the Supreme Court rejected President Harry S. Truman's assertion that he had the constitutional authority to seize steel mills during the Korean War. 
 ''I think the points of law are so clear in this case that they need to be examined by this body,'' said Richard Mourdock, the Indiana treasurer. ''This is a step towards having that happen. I'm certainly not elated. There's nothing in this story that would lead me to elation.''
 Several legal experts noted that the action should not be interpreted as a signal of the full Supreme Court's intentions. And it is not unusual for the court to issue a stay while it considers whether to hear a case, but it rarely grants the kind of expedited hearing on the merits that the Indiana funds are seeking.
 ''I'm astonished she even stayed the sale, but I find it quite encouraging, because I find it important that they take a close look at the issues,'' said David A. Skeel Jr., a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. ''I think it's a good move. My guess is in the end they will approve the sale.'' 
 The order represents a surprising turn of events to what President Obama had promised in late April would be a ''quick'' and ''efficient'' bankruptcy. 
 His concern for speed reflected, in part, a desire to limit the damage of bankruptcy to Chrysler and its workers, as more consumers were likely to steer clear of the automaker as long as a cloud of uncertainty hung over its future.
 It was also seen as a test run for General Motors, which filed for bankruptcy on June 1, with a similarly ambitious goal of emerging from bankruptcy quickly.
 In the case of Chrysler, Mr. Obama promised its bankruptcy would be ''controlled,'' by reaching agreements with crucial players before the filing. A new agreement, for example, was struck with the United Automobile Workers before the filing.
 But many creditors objected to the discount they were being asked to accept on their Chrysler debt. Mr. Obama singled them out for criticism, referring to them as ''speculators'' in his speech announcing Chrysler's filing. 
 ''They were hoping that everybody else would make sacrifices, and they would have to make none,'' Mr. Obama said of the creditors at the time. ''I don't stand with them.''
 Many relented, but other creditors dug in for a fight, including the three Indiana funds, which represent teachers and police officers and are seeking more compensation for their $42.5 million share of Chrysler's $6.9 billion in secured debt. 
 Lawyers for the funds have questioned whether Chrysler could have received a better deal than the Fiat transaction or through a liquidation. They have also objected on constitutional grounds, saying that the Obama administration was not allowed to give bailout money meant for financial institutions to Chrysler.
 ''The negative economic consequences of permitting an unlawful sale to proceed may well over time dramatically outweigh Chrysler's short-term harm,'' the funds said in their brief. 
 But Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said he was more concerned about the risk of Chrysler being forced to liquidate. ''By refusing to make the relatively small sacrifices that would avert a calamity, the pension funds will instead create a great catastrophe,'' he said in a statement Monday.
 Chrysler, Fiat and the government were prepared to close the deal as soon as Monday night if the court let the deal go forward, according to people briefed on the matter. 
 Chrysler and Fiat declined to comment. An administration official responded to the court's action by saying, ''We understand this to be an administrative extension designed to allow sufficient time for the court to make a determination on the merits of the request for a stay.''
 Under the terms of the deal, Fiat can walk away as soon as June 15, a move that Chrysler executives warned would mean near certain liquidation. Executives testified in court that despite spending more than a year scouring the globe for someone to buy the company, none except for Fiat made an offer. And a lawyer for Chrysler argued in a recent court filing that the carmaker was losing $100 million a day while it was in bankruptcy.
 Under the government-backed plan, Chrysler would emerge from bankruptcy with a union retiree trust owning 55 percent, Fiat owning a 20 percent share that could eventually grow to 35 percent, and the United States and Canadian governments holding minority stakes.
 Justice Ginsburg, who handles emergency matters arising from the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, issued an order Monday, saying that the rulings of the bankruptcy judge allowing the sale ''are stayed pending further order of the undersigned or of the court.''
 For much of its court case, decisions had fallen Chrysler's way. The carmaker won quick approval of its sale from two lower courts, and many legal experts said they did not expect the Supreme Court to stay the deal.
 But lawyers for the objectors, which also included several groups with product liability claims, filed their appeal to Justice Ginsburg Saturday night, after the Second Circuit reaffirmed a lower court's approval of the sale. The appeals court had delayed the closing of the deal until 4 p.m. Monday or until the Supreme Court declined to issue its own delay.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tourists visited the Supreme Court on Monday, when it issued a one-sentence order that slowed Chrysler's bankruptcy process. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); APPROVALS (76%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); KOREAN WAR (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



232 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 AMERICAN MILITARY RELEASES
 Insurgent Backed by Iran
 The American military has released a Shiite insurgent said to be backed by Iran who was accused of playing a leading role in an attack that killed five American soldiers in Karbala in 2007. PAGE A4 
 RELATIVES WIN TERROR SUIT 
 Relatives of victims of the worst terrorist attack in Northern Ireland's history won a civil case against members of an Irish Republican Army splinter group that the court found responsible. PAGE A4 
 CAMPAIGN RALLIES IN TEHRAN
 Two large demonstrations by followers of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his main electoral challenger brought the capital of Iran virtually to a standstill. PAGE A8 
 IRAQ BOMBING KILLS 7
 A bomb exploded on a minibus in a neighborhood in south Baghdad, killing at least seven people and wounding two dozen, security officials said. PAGE A9 
 ISRAEL KILLS 4 GAZA GUNMEN
 Israeli forces killed four gunmen from Gaza who attacked an army patrol along the Gaza border in one of the most audacious raids since Israel ended its military campaign in the Palestinian coastal strip in January. PAGE A10 
 CHINA ORDERS PC CENSORING
 China has issued a directive requiring all personal computers sold in the country to include software that can filter out pornography and other ''unhealthy information.'' PAGE A11 
 ACAPULCO DRUG BATTLE
 A four-hour gun battle over the weekend between soldiers and suspected drug traffickers in Acapulco made clear that no part of Mexico may be completely immune from the continuing drug war. PAGE A12 
 NATIONAL
 KENNEDY NOT EXPECTED
 To Return to Capitol
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who Democrats had hoped would lead them in the drive to overhaul health care, is not expected to return to the Capitol as debate begins because of his battle with brain cancer. PAGE A14 
 SHOW FOR MEXICO'S OUTSIDERS
 ''La Hora Mixteca,'' a radio show broadcast from Fresno, Calif., is aimed primarily at Mixtec Indians, a group that is said to occupy the lowest rungs on the immigrant pecking order. PAGE A14 
 OBAMA DEFENDS STIMULUS
 President Obama began a new effort to show that his stimulus plan was yielding concrete benefits, saying his administration expected to save or create an additional 600,000 jobs this summer. PAGE A15 
 3 DEMOCRATS VIE IN VIRGINIA
 Virginia voters who head to the polls in the Democratic primary for governor will choose among three candidates who have distinguished themselves more by personality than by politics. PAGE A17 
 NEW YORK
 HEARING ON WAYS TO KEEP
 Birds and Planes Apart
 A National Transportation Safety Board hearing will seek ways to avoid bird strikes like the one that caused US Airways Flight 1549 to land in the Hudson River. PAGE A21 
 OBITUARIES
 OMAR BONGO, 73
 Africa's longest-entrenched autocrat, he ruled Gabon for 41 years, amassing immense personal wealth while his West African country remained poor. PAGE A20 
 BUSINESS
 CLIMBING GAS PRICES
 Could Slow a Recovery
 Gas prices have risen to a national average of almost $2.62 a gallon, a sharp increase from the low of $1.62 a gallon that prevailed at the end of last year. Refinery problems are producing especially high prices in the Midwest. PAGE B1 
 SHEIK FACES IRKED INVESTORS
 Investors in an ''eco-village'' of lakes and villas in Abu Dhabi are campaigning to force the developer, Sheik Sulaiman al-Fahim, to push ahead with the project. PAGE B1 
 SENTENCE: WRITE A BOOK
 As penance for a false statement, Judge Ricardo M. Urbina of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia sentenced a former senior pharmaceutical executive to write a book. PAGE B3 HEDGE FUNDS REVIVED
 After huge losses last year, hedge funds climbed an average of 5.23 percent in May for one of their best months ever. PAGE B5 
 SPORTS
 SAND BLASTERS RACE TO WIN
 Sand drag racing, a sport begun in dry riverbeds, is an unofficial minor league to the National Hot Rod Association, with lots of grit. PAGE B12 
 ARTS
 LINCOLN CENTER APPOINTS
 Insider as Chairwoman
 Katherine G. Farley, a senior managing director at the real estate company Tishman Speyer who has been overseeing Lincoln Center's redevelopment project, has been appointed the chairwoman of the center. PAGE C1 
 SCIENCE TIMES
 RETURN OF THE BEAVER?
 Not in My Yard
 Around the nation, decades of environmental regulation, conservation efforts and changing land use have brought many species, like beavers, so far back from the brink that they are viewed as nuisances. PAGE D1 
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); PORNOGRAPHY (66%); CENSORSHIP (66%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (65%); CANCER (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); BIRDS (60%); BRAIN CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); TED KENNEDY (56%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); MEXICO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); IRAQ (79%); GABON (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); IRAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



233 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Smartphone Rises Fast From Gadget to Necessity

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In today's recession-racked economy, penny-pinching is a national pastime. But people are still opening their wallets for smartphones. 
 Sales of BlackBerrys, iPhones and other smartphone models are rising smartly and are projected to increase 25 percent this year, according to Gartner, a research business. Widely anticipated new models like the Palm Pre, which went on sale nationwide on Saturday, will help fuel that growth. Meanwhile, total cellphone sales are expected to fall. 
 The smartphone surge, it seems, is a case of a trading-up trend in technology that is running strong enough to weather the downturn. And as is so often true when it comes to adoption of new technology, the smartphone story is as much about consumer sociology and psychology as it is about chips, bytes and bandwidth. 
 For a growing swath of the population, the social expectation is that one is nearly always connected and reachable almost instantly via e-mail. The smartphone, analysts say, is the instrument of that connectedness -- and thus worth the cost, both as a communications tool and as a status symbol.
 ''The social norm is that you should respond within a couple of hours, if not immediately,'' said David E. Meyer, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan. ''If you don't, it is assumed you are out to lunch mentally, out of it socially, or don't like the person who sent the e-mail.''
 The spread of those social assumptions may signal a technological crossover that echoes the proliferation of e-mail itself more than a decade ago. At some point in the early 1990s, it became socially unacceptable -- at least for many people -- to not have an e-mail address.
 Smartphones are not cheap, particularly in tough economic times. The phones, even with routine discounts from wireless carriers, usually cost $100 to $300, while the data and calling service plans are typically $80 to $100 a month.
 But recent smartphone converts are often people who count pennies, including many from the growing ranks of job seekers. Helene Rude of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., was laid off from her job as a business development manager at I.B.M. this year, when her unit, among others, was the target of cuts. When she left, Ms. Rude had to turn in her company notebook computer with its constant wireless connection. 
 So she got an iPhone instead, allowing her to be online no matter where she was, without having to lug a computer around. ''I absolutely got it for the job search,'' she said. ''I don't know if it's really an expectation, but if another job candidate returns an e-mail message eight hours later, and you get back immediately with a message that says 'Sent from my iPhone,' I think it has to be a check box in your favor.''
 That is certainly the sort of message the wireless industry would like to reinforce. ''Smartphones are seen as essential to be productive in a mobile society,'' said David Christopher, chief marketing officer at AT&T's wireless division.
 James L. Balsillie, co-chief executive of Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, said the company's introduction of less business-oriented phones, with the general spread of mobile communication, explained the snowballing growth in BlackBerry users. They now number 25 million, nearly double the total a year ago and a tenfold increase in the last four years.
 The smartphone wave, industry analysts say, should continue to build. The room for gains is ample because, though rising, smartphone sales will still account for only a quarter of total cellphone shipments in the United States this year. And along with the Palm Pre, a host of new smartphone handset and software offerings are coming this year, from Apple, R.I.M., Nokia, Microsoft, Google and others.
 The industry's goal is to win over more rank-and-file converts like Joseph Sexton of San Jose, Calif., who calls himself ''not a gadget person.'' Mr. Sexton, 45, decided to leave his job as a manager of a community health organization to travel and then look for other work, shortly before the financial crisis hit last fall.
 He soon found himself looking for work in a tough market, and got a smartphone as a digital assistant in his search. Now he is hooked. ''It allows me to be on top of things, and always connected, no matter where I am,'' he said.
 Mr. Sexton searches the Web, takes notes and sends e-mail with his iPhone. When he has trouble sleeping, he reaches for his smartphone to read news or check e-mail. In fact, Mr. Sexton said, he finds himself reading more online these days and buying fewer magazines.
 ''Basically, I'm walking around with a minicomputer in my pocket,'' he said. ''And it's a part of me now, an appendage.''
 Such a digital connection can have its downside. The perils of obsessive smartphone use have been well documented, including distracted driving and the stress of multitasking. CrackBerry, a term coined years ago, is telling.
 The smartphone, said Mr. Meyer, a cognitive psychologist, can be seen as a digital ''Skinner box,'' a reference to the experiments of the behavioral psychologist B. F. Skinner in which rats were conditioned to press a lever repeatedly to get food pellets. 
 With the smartphone, he said, the stimuli are information feeds. ''It can be powerfully reinforcing behavior,'' he said. ''But the key is to make sure this technology helps you carry out the tasks of daily life instead of interfering with them. It's about balance and managing things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Sexton got a smartphone to help look for a job, but now relies on it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (95%); SMARTPHONES (94%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (84%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); TRENDS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); BANDWIDTH (75%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



234 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Mogul Ascends With Old Hollywood Clout

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
In 1992, Ariel Zev Emanuel, a young operative with the struggling InterTalent agency, had a problem with the rent on a $639-a-month walk-up in the city's modest Fairfax district. The landlord took him to court seeking eviction, and won.
 Today, Mr. Emanuel has a $10 million home in the Brentwood neighborhood; a pipeline to the White House through his brother Rahm, its chief of staff; and a sprawling new talent agency of his own design, called William Morris Endeavor Entertainment.
As Hollywood stories go, that is a good start. But it needs a third act.
 Long known as a hardball player of considerable skill, Mr. Emanuel, 48, has emerged in the last six weeks as the pre-eminent power player in a Hollywood that has often bemoaned the sunset of colorful moguls from an older generation, including Michael Ovitz and David Geffen. 
 As the co-chief executive and principal architect of William Morris Endeavor, formed in late April by the merger of Mr. Emanuel's Endeavor with the venerable William Morris Agency, Mr. Emanuel has finally stepped into their shoes -- assuming he can hold his venture together. He spent much of the last week in mixers meant to help hundreds of wary colleagues from the newly joined agencies get comfortable with one another.
 Hollywood, meanwhile, is still struggling to get comfortable with Mr. Emanuel and his aspirations -- and to figure out exactly what makes him tick.
 ''It's about respect,'' offered J. C. Spink, a young producer who, with his business partner Chris Bender, has been a protege of Mr. Emanuel's. ''With nine out of 10 people, if not more, they tend to be in this business for respect.''
 Others queried in the last week mentioned power, money, an itch to surpass the Creative Artists Agency, and, most intriguing, a surge of ambition that came with the return of Mr. Emanuel's brother Rahm, a former Clinton adviser, to the White House with President Obama. ''Ari wants an empire,'' said one associate, who insisted on anonymity to protect his relationship.
 If empire is indeed being born here, it is being shaped by a restless achiever who hungers for the bold stroke -- as when Mr. Emanuel and three colleagues in 1995 started Endeavor with a nighttime raid on their own office files at International Creative Management -- even when that leaves a mess to be cleaned up afterward. In the case of their I.C.M. caper, James A. Wiatt, then president of the agency, caught and fired the four before they could quit. 
 Even hardened observers of Hollywood's coarse ways were stunned when Mr. Emanuel and his colleagues dumped dozens of Morris agents and parted ways with Mr. Wiatt, who had since become the Morris chairman, less than a month after the merger was approved. Mr. Wiatt, 62, had expected to continue as chairman for perhaps a year, but has decided to leave in the coming months.
 (Mr. Wiatt declined to comment and Rahm Emanuel did not respond to queries for this article.)
 Even as Mr. Wiatt opted out, Mr. Emanuel's temper flared in negotiations with NBC over the drama ''Medium,'' which was created by one of his clients, Glenn Gordon Caron. The spat, which broke out when the network balked at financial terms, concluded with ''Medium'' moving to CBS and Mr. Emanuel threatening Marc Graboff, co-chairman of NBC Entertainment, with personal ruin, according to three people with knowledge of the incident. Mr. Graboff declined to comment; an Emanuel colleague insisted the threats were not personal.
 ''Nobody wants to be on the wrong side of Ari Emanuel, especially now that his brother is running the White House,'' said one television executive, who asked for anonymity to preserve harmony with him.
 Mr. Emanuel is now pushing toward a next step that will involve an alliance with a still-to-be-formed investment firm. The goal is to put financial firepower behind the agency, new capital that could, for instance, allow partners or clients of William Morris Endeavor to finance media start-ups or its own productions. 
 To that end, Joseph Ravitch, an investment banker formerly at Goldman Sachs, and Jeffrey A. Sine, from UBS Warburg, have been working quietly for months to assemble a firm and a fund that would involve William Morris Endeavor and Mr. Emanuel. Prior to the merger, Goldman considered organizing a purchase of Endeavor. But a deteriorating economy, coupled with a growing sense that William Morris was vulnerable, led instead to talks -- with Mr. Ravitch advising Endeavor -- that resulted in the current merger.
 (Neither Mr. Ravitch nor Mr. Sine returned calls for this article; Mr. Emanuel declined to be interviewed.)
 But people who have been briefed on the financial enterprise said Mr. Ravitch expects to have it up and running this year, giving William Morris Endeavor access to perhaps the most sought-after commodity in show business: Fresh capital.
 Too, Mr. Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell, a fellow co-chief of William Morris Endeavor, have been spending time, on the golf course and off, with Theodore J. Forstmann. A friend of both, the private investor controls IMG, a powerhouse sports and media agency that produces lucrative events like fashion shows and golf tournament programming.
 Despite widespread speculation about an alliance or merger between the new agency and IMG, no formal ties are likely in the near future, according to people who are involved with each agency and spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid damaging relationships.
 If past is prologue, Mr. Emanuel's approach to growth will be anything but conventional.
 Two years ago, in a speech at a gala for the Lab School of Washington and Baltimore, which presented him an award for outstanding achievers with learning disabilities, Mr. Emanuel described his idiosyncratic business style as being rooted in a struggle with dyslexia.
 Captured in a video now posted on YouTube, a nervous Mr. Emanuel said that dyslexics, if they overcome their disability at all, do so by inventing a path of their own. The effort ''actually provides them with insight to find inventive solutions to life and in business that others when they're in those situations probably never find,'' Mr. Emanuel said.
 Mr. Emanuel boasted in the video that he now reads scripts for clients like Larry David and Martin Scorsese. More, even Mr. Scorsese would be at home in a state-of-the-art screening room in Mr. Emanuel's house, purchased four years ago for $9.85 million, as a 10-year-old Endeavor was coming into its own. (As for that Fairfax district eviction, Mr. Emanuel, who had irked the landlord by trying to use his security deposit for his last month's rent, moved out before any sheriff showed up.)
 Mr. Emanuel's dominance within Endeavor -- universally acknowledged, though he had no formal title and shared control with three other members of a permanent governing group -- was built around a client list that is unusually scattershot.
 It includes those with long-time connections, like the writers John Altschuler and David Krinsky, a team who had started many years before at InterTalent and later helped produce the animated ''King of the Hill,'' and the actor-filmmaker Peter Berg, who was Mr. Emanuel's roommate at Macalester College in Minnesota. They are matched by a roster of movie stars as eclectic as Mark Wahlberg, Michael Douglas and Sacha Baron Cohen. Then come writer-producers like Greg Daniels (''The Office'') and Aaron Sorkin (''The West Wing''), and a grab-bag of performers and media types whose common threat might simply be that they are interesting to know.
 In this last category, Mr. Emanuel has represented the documentary filmmakers Michael Moore and Errol Morris, ''Tonight Show'' host Conan O'Brien, basketball star Shaquille O'Neal and interviewer Charlie Rose. 
 A year ago, Mr. Rose, on his television show, moderated a freewheeling session with the brothers Rahm, Ari and Ezekiel Emanuel, a renowned bioethicist who described his brothers as being driven by an ethos: ''What are you doing today to make the world better?''
 In Ari's case, that has meant driving a hybrid Prius and electric Tesla, keeping the roof of his home lined with solar panels and serving as a director of the National Resources Defense Council's Action Fund.
 But Mr. Emanuel has also undertaken less high-minded ventures. For instance, he became one of the biggest shareholder in, and a consultant to, Tablemax Holdings -- a small Las Vegas-based company that makes electronic gambling tables (''Caribbean Stud Poker'') for Indian casinos and other gambling operations.
 ''I do actually believe it's going to come through,'' said Gavin Polone, a Hollywood producer who was recruited as a fellow investor by Mr. Emanuel. Mr. Polone joined the agent in guaranteeing millions of dollars in bank loans for the company, which has been struggling in the tough economic climate.
 Another foray involves Live Nation, the concert company whose proposed merger with Ticketmaster is under review by federal antitrust regulators. Mr. Emanuel is on the Live Nation board, but directors of the combined companies have not yet been named.
 Mr. Emanuel's position will be complicated by the merger of Endeavor, which had no significant music business, with William Morris, a music powerhouse whose performer clients will find their fortunes affected by deals with the new concert company.
 But Michael Rapino, chief executive of Live Nation, said he did not see a potential conflict of interest in Mr. Emanuel's evolving roles. ''We hope he would find time to continue to be a member,'' he said.
 Mr. Rose, a friend who describes himself as ''the fourth Emanuel brother,'' acknowledged that something about Mr. Emanuel's status has changed in recent weeks.
 ''It seems to have kicked to another level,'' Mr. Rose said. ''A convergence of things has enabled him to be seen at a more commanding height.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the ascendance of the Hollywood agent Ariel Z. Emanuel misstated part of the name of an environmental group that he serves as a director. It is the Natural -- not National -- Resources Defense Council Action Fund.

GRAPHIC: Ariel Emanuel JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES Ariel Emanuel, principal architect of William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, has a roster that includes many A-list names. J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALENT AGENTS (90%); EVICTION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); APPROVALS (73%)

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (57%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (53%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (51%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); DAVID GEFFEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



235 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2269 words

HEADLINE: Neighbor, Can You Spare A Plum?

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
 THE loquats were ripe and just begging to be picked. 
 But there was a problem. Although the tree was planted on private property, the loaded branches hung over the street. 
 Did that make the fruit public property?
 In the end, with no one around to ask, Asiya Wadud decided the answer was yes. So she added them to a bag already heavy with Meyer lemons picked (with permission) from a yard a few blocks away. Then she headed off to check on some plum trees.
 It was just another day of urban fruit foraging for Ms. Wadud, one of a growing number of people who looked around their cities, saw trees full of fruit and thought, ''Delicious.'' 
 A year and a half ago, Ms. Wadud, who studied urban sociology in college and bartended at Chez Panisse, began organizing a little neighborhood fruit exchange called Forage Oakland. She did it as much to build neighborhood relations as to get her hands on some of that fruit. 
 It works simply. A woman with a yard full of lemon trees, say, can share her bounty in exchange for a paper bag full of someone else's persimmons when they come into season. So far, 200 people have signed up.
 All over the country, the underground fruit economy is growing. At new Web sites like neighborhoodfruit.com and veggietrader.com, fruit seekers can find public mulberry patches in Pennsylvania and neighbors willing to trade blackberries in Oklahoma. 
 In Royal Oak, Mich., a woman investigated how to start a fruit exchange modeled after Fallen Fruit (fallenfruit.org), an arts group that designs maps of accessible fruit growing in Los Angeles neighborhoods.
 In Alaska, cooks used Facebook to find willing donors of backyard rhubarb, the first dessert crop that grows after the long winter. In Columbia, S.C., university students pulled spare peaches from orchards and donated them to a local food bank. 
 Supporters of this movement hold two basic principles. One, it's a shame to let fruit go to waste. And two, neighborhood fruit tastes best when it's free.
 ''There have always been people harvesting fallen fruit,'' Ms. Wadud said, ''but there's a whole new counterculture about gathering and eating public fruit. This tremendous resource is growing everywhere if people just start looking around.''
 Jennifer Perillo, a mother and food writer who lives in Brooklyn, became an accidental neighborhood fruit forager last summer. She was driving to her mother's house in Bensonhurst when she saw vibrant red balls hanging from a tree in someone's yard. Cherries! 
 She saw a peach tree, too, and leaned over a fence for a sample. The owner was none too happy, but when she explained that she only wanted her children to taste a fresh Brooklyn peach, he gave her half a dozen.
 Then she started looking for fruit in her own neighborhood, Carroll Gardens, finding apricots and figs in abundance. ''Honestly, for years I walked around the neighborhood in my own world and I never noticed all of this before,'' she said.
 Three years ago, Katy Kolker had a similar experience in her northeast Portland, Ore., neighborhood. Fruit was going to waste, and she decided to do something about it. 
 She and some friends went to the home of a woman who had planted apple trees 30 years before, but was too old to pick them. They gathered nearly 200 pounds, gave some to the woman and went back to prune her trees. 
 That apple adventure inspired the Portland Fruit Tree Project, a database of more than 300 trees, each registered by the owner, who promises to call about two weeks before the fruit is ripe to arrange a harvest. 
 ''A family can only really eat 20 pounds of fresh apples or so before they cry uncle,'' Ms. Kolker said. ''A fruit tree is really made for sharing with your neighborhood.''
 This year, 20 picking parties are planned. Half the fruit goes to the people who pick, and half to a local food bank. Ms. Kolker reserves half of the dozen slots at each picking party for low-income people.
 Hynden Walch, a voice-over actress for animated films, put together a more modest fruit program in her Los Angeles neighborhood. ''I would walk up in the hills where I live and I would see all this incredible food just dying on the tree and rolling down the hill,'' she said. Plus, her own seven fruit trees were going unpicked, which was an embarrassment.
 Last August, she sent an e-mail message to her neighbors asking them to drop extra fruit and garden bounty at her house, where she would divide it up and give everyone back a bagful.
 Since then, membership in her little Hillside Produce Co-operative has doubled, and other neighborhoods are copying her. 
 She recently filled bags with lemons, oranges, grapefruits, kumquats and loquat jam. The jam came from a chef who didn't have fruit but had skills. 
 ''Everyone's contribution weighs the same,'' she said. ''A fig will get you a bag. In my gigantic idealism, where money isn't the center of the universe, this is a small way I can right the balance of the world.''
 For cooks, like Samin Nosrat, a cook at the restaurant Eccolo in Berkeley, free fruit is like a little kitchen miracle. She sneaks grape leaves to wrap sardines. Once, she stumbled upon so many fallen green walnuts on a sidewalk that she piled a bunch into a blanket she retrieved from her car, and made nocino, a walnut liqueur.
 Ms. Nosrat calls it opportunistic cooking, which she means in the best way. 
 ''It's cooking from nothing,'' she said.
 As with content on the Internet, though, not everybody believes that fruit wants to be free.
 Danila Oder, who works at a hospital in Los Angeles, learned that lesson a few years ago when she wrote a list of tips on making public fruit tree maps for Fallen Fruit. 
 A woman whose tree was included on one of the maps was furious that people were raiding her trees, even though some of her fruit was hanging over public space, making it legal to pick under California law.
 Since then, Ms. Oder has wrestled with the issues of fairness and legality, which can vary by state and neighborhood. She has come to see that not everybody is respectful when it comes to the civic sharing of public fruit.
 ''If you let everyone know who's got extra food, someone is going to break in or go over the fence,'' she said. 
 Then there is the debate over whether money should be made from spare backyard fruit. Two new Web sites are trying to find a balance. The thousands of people who have registered on veggietrader.com can choose to swap or sell their backyard garden's overflow, Craigslist style.
 Neighborhoodfruit.com offers a swapping system and lists 5,000 public fruit trees around the country. The founders are considering charging a $4 finder's fee for people who want to use the site, said Kaytea Petro, who helped start the project.
 That sum could help pay for the Web site but still be affordable for people with low incomes, who might be able to sell pies or other items made with the fruit. The fee would be waived for people who give fruit away.
 They might even add a V.I.P. service for ''the super-fancy Slow Food people who really like the idea of extremely local food but don't have time to go get it,'' she said.
 Of course, there are legal considerations. So the founders carefully worded their site user agreement. ''If they register a tree with malicious intent, then they are liable,'' Ms. Petro said.
 Some money-for-fruit models are less ambitious. Jennifer Fisher, a stockbroker, sells the Santa Rosa plums that proliferate in her Berkeley backyard. 
 ''It became this big ordeal to give away my plums every year,'' she said. 
 She decided to set out a table of paper bags each holding a generous pound of plums. Next to them was a box where people could drop in a dollar per bag.
 Last summer, she made $75, including the dollar she charged parents who wanted their three children to pick the fruit themselves. It's not about the money, Ms. Fisher maintains. She just wants to make sure the plums go to people who really care about fruit.
 ''You could just give them away,'' she said, ''but if you sell them for a dollar a pound you know people are using them.''
 Recipe: Cherry and Spring Onion Salsa Adapted from Samin Nosrat Time: 15 minutes
 Adapted from Samin Nosrat
 Time: 15 minutes
 1 small red spring onion bulb and greens
 3 tablespoons lemon juice, or more to taste
 1 1/2 cups pitted cherries, or about 8 ounces 
 1 teaspoon finely chopped chives
 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley
 1 small jalapeno, seeded and finely chopped
 5 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt.
 1. Finely dice spring onion bulb and greens. Place 3 tablespoons diced bulb and 1 tablespoon greens in a small bowl and pour lemon juice over them. Set aside for 10 minutes to macerate.
 2. Halve the cherries and slice into slivers. Place cherries, herbs, jalapeno, olive oil and salt in a medium-size bowl and stir to combine. 
 3. Add onion and greens, taste and add more salt and lemon juice if needed.
 4. Let the salsa sit for at least 5 minutes to meld flavors. 
 Yield: 4 to 8 servings.
 Note: Salsa can be spooned over flaky fish, like halibut, or grilled pork or duck. 
 Recipe: Foraged Fruit Tart Adapted from Cindy Burke Time: 45 minutes, plus at least two hours' chilling
 Adapted from Cindy Burke
 Time: 45 minutes, plus at least two hours' chilling
 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar 
 6 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus some to grease baking sheet
 1 teaspoon vanilla
 1/2 cup cream cheese
 2 eggs
 2 cups flour
 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
 4 cups thinly sliced stone fruit, like plums, apricots or peaches, peeled if skin is thick; berries can be mixed in, too
 1/4 cup currant jelly.
 1. Combine 1/2 cup sugar, 6 tablespoons butter, vanilla and cream cheese in a large mixer bowl, and beat on medium speed for 2 minutes, until light and fluffy. Add 1 egg and beat for 1 more minute. 
 2. In a separate bowl, mix flour and salt, then add to egg and butter mixture. Blend on low speed for 1 minute until combined. Shape dough into a ball, wrap and freeze for 2 hours, or refrigerate overnight.
 3. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Roll dough between two sheets of plastic wrap to a 15-inch circle. Remove top layer of plastic wrap and turn dough onto a large, lightly greased baking sheet. Remove remaining plastic wrap. 
 4. Arrange fruit on dough, leaving a generous 3-inch border.
 5. Combine jelly and 2 tablespoons water in a small bowl, and microwave for 1 minute to melt jelly. Brush fruit with jelly. 
 6. Fold border of dough over fruit. The fruit will be only partly covered. 
 7. Beat remaining egg with 1 tablespoon water, and brush on top of dough. Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of sugar. 
 8. Bake for 30 minutes until light brown. Cool tart on baking sheet for 10 minutes, then use 2 spatulas to slide it onto a serving platter. 
 Yield: 8 servings.
 Recipe: Cherry and Spring Onion Salsa Adapted from Samin Nosrat Time: 15 minutes
 Adapted from Samin Nosrat
 Time: 15 minutes
 1 small red spring onion bulb and greens
 3 tablespoons lemon juice, or more to taste
 1 1/2 cups pitted cherries, or about 8 ounces 
 1 teaspoon finely chopped chives
 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley
 1 small jalapeno, seeded and finely chopped
 5 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt.
 1. Finely dice spring onion bulb and greens. Place 3 tablespoons diced bulb and 1 tablespoon greens in a small bowl and pour lemon juice over them. Set aside for 10 minutes to macerate.
 2. Halve the cherries and slice into slivers. Place cherries, herbs, jalapeno, olive oil and salt in a medium-size bowl and stir to combine. 
 3. Add onion and greens, taste and add more salt and lemon juice if needed.
 4. Let the salsa sit for at least 5 minutes to meld flavors. 
 Yield: 4 to 8 servings.
 Note: Salsa can be spooned over flaky fish, like halibut, or grilled pork or duck. 
 Recipe: Foraged Fruit Tart Adapted from Cindy Burke Time: 45 minutes, plus at least two hours' chilling
 Adapted from Cindy Burke
 Time: 45 minutes, plus at least two hours' chilling
 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar 
 6 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus some to grease baking sheet
 1 teaspoon vanilla
 1/2 cup cream cheese
 2 eggs
 2 cups flour
 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 
 4 cups thinly sliced stone fruit, like plums, apricots or peaches, peeled if skin is thick; berries can be mixed in, too
 1/4 cup currant jelly.
 1. Combine 1/2 cup sugar, 6 tablespoons butter, vanilla and cream cheese in a large mixer bowl, and beat on medium speed for 2 minutes, until light and fluffy. Add 1 egg and beat for 1 more minute. 
 2. In a separate bowl, mix flour and salt, then add to egg and butter mixture. Blend on low speed for 1 minute until combined. Shape dough into a ball, wrap and freeze for 2 hours, or refrigerate overnight.
 3. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Roll dough between two sheets of plastic wrap to a 15-inch circle. Remove top layer of plastic wrap and turn dough onto a large, lightly greased baking sheet. Remove remaining plastic wrap. 
 4. Arrange fruit on dough, leaving a generous 3-inch border.
 5. Combine jelly and 2 tablespoons water in a small bowl, and microwave for 1 minute to melt jelly. Brush fruit with jelly. 
 6. Fold border of dough over fruit. The fruit will be only partly covered. 
 7. Beat remaining egg with 1 tablespoon water, and brush on top of dough. Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of sugar. 
 8. Bake for 30 minutes until light brown. Cool tart on baking sheet for 10 minutes, then use 2 spatulas to slide it onto a serving platter. 
 Yield: 8 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IT'S FREE: Asiya Wadud, fruit foraging in Oakland, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
NOTHING WASTED: Asiya Wadud, above and far left, organized a neighborhood fruit exchange in Oakland, Calif. Left, a tart made of apricots. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE AND LEFT BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (77%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); FOOD CHARITIES (62%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (58%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



236 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Charitable Giving Declines, a New Report Finds

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Charitable giving fell last year by the largest percentage in five decades, according to a new study by the Giving USA Foundation.
 Individuals and institutions made gifts and pledges of $307.65 billion, a decrease of 5.7 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis over the $314 billion given in 2007, according to the foundation, a research organization backed by the fund-raising industry.
 Some experts said they were surprised the drop was not even bigger, given that endowments fell by as much as 40 percent, the stock market declined by a similar margin, corporations posted unheard-of losses and unemployment was rising at a fast clip. 
 ''So far, my clients are holding their own, by and large,'' said Robert F. Sharpe, a fund-raising consultant whose clients include St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
 The Giving USA Foundation study found that the drop in giving accelerated in the fall, as the impact of the economic crisis and the steep decline in stock markets took hold. 
 ''In the first half of the year, it was more or less business as usual for our clients, which is to say pretty good,'' said Del Martin, the chairwoman of the foundation and a partner at Alexander Haas, a fund-raising advisory firm in Atlanta. ''Then, as we got into the last quarter, we saw corporations begin rethinking their giving in greatly different ways, and we saw individuals begin to revisit their philanthropic priorities.''
 Even with the steep drop, charitable giving remained strong. Last year's giving outstripped all previous years on record except 2007, though the outlook for next year remains uncertain.
 Amherst College, for example, had a ''banner year'' last year, said Megan Morey, the institution's chief advancement officer. The college received the largest bequest in its history, $23 million, and several donors responded promptly to a new $425 million capital campaign, enabling Amherst to raise a total of roughly $70 million.
 But like other nonprofit organizations, Amherst has found fund-raising in the current year tough. Ms. Morey said the annual campaign, which ends in a few weeks, is down by roughly 15 percent compared with the 2007-8 effort. ''Over all,'' she said, ''we're tracking comparable to what we were in 2007, which I feel good about.'' 
 Giving USA estimated that donations to educational institutions fell 9 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis to $40.94 billion. Colleges, universities and private schools, including Amherst, have also been hit by sharp declines in their assets. 
 About two-thirds of public charities saw donations decrease in 2008, the foundation said. Most surprising, Ms. Martin said, was the decline in gifts to organizations working to meet basic needs, like food banks and homeless shelters, which are seeing a big increase in demand for their services. 
 Many fund-raising experts had predicted that donors would increase giving to those types of charities at the expense of others, like arts groups. But the foundation estimated that gifts to those organizations fell by an inflation-adjusted 15.9 percent, to $25.88 billion. Boys & Girls Clubs of America, for instance, saw donations drop 4.7 percent last year to a preliminary $524 million.
 This year is not shaping up to be any better, said Cyndi Court, executive vice president for marketing and development at the organization, although the group recently received unexpected gifts of $5 million and $1.2 million to support its summer meals program from Morgan Stanley and Wal-Mart, respectively.
 ''We're definitely anticipating another down year,'' Ms. Court said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Charitable Giving in the U.S.: Giving in 2008 fell by the largest percentage in 50 years.
 But contributions to religious organizations continued to rise.(Source: Giving USA Foundation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITABLE GIVING (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); FOUNDATIONS (79%); PHILANTHROPY (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); CANCER (71%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (53%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



237 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Screen Actors Approve New Hollywood Contract

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Members of the Screen Actors Guild have voted overwhelmingly to approve a new contract with the major Hollywood studios, ending a nearly year-long standoff.
 The delay resulted in the union's missing out on millions of dollars in potential pay increases and on contracts to represent actors on many of next fall's new television series.The union announced Tuesday night that 78 percent of those who voted supported the contract. About 35 percent of the union's 110,000 members returned ballots. The votes in favor of the contract exceeded 70 percent in all three of the union's major divisions, including in Hollywood, where much of the most high-profile opposition was centered. 
 The new, two-year contract gives the union a 3 percent wage increase immediately and a 3.5 percent increase after one year. In addition, it provides a number of benefits for actors working on material created for digital distribution, including residual payments for ad-supported Internet streaming of feature films and television programs. 
 Those benefits came at a cost, however. The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which represents the major Hollywood studios, offered essentially the same terms to the Screen Actors Guild when its previous contract expired a year ago.
 The producers' alliance first reached contracts with several other unions, including those representing directors, writers and a rival union representing actors. The Screen Actors Guild initially took a hard line in negotiations, but a lack of progress eventually led to the ouster of the union's executive director and its chief negotiator.
 David White, who took over as interim national executive director after the ouster and helped to jump-start talks with the producers, said Tuesday that the union in the coming months would seek to ''organize new work opportunities, repair and reinvigorate our relationships with our sister unions and industry partners, and continue to improve the Guild's operations.''
 Alan Rosenberg, the union president who opposed the contract, said he continued to believe it to be ''devastatingly unsatisfactory.'' In an interview, he said that he believes that many more union members believed the deal to be unsatisfactory but decided to support it now and seek more concessions from producers in two years, when all of the major Hollywood union contracts will be expiring at about the same time.
 The disagreements between the union's two major factions are unlikely to disappear soon, said Stephen Diamond, an associate professor of law at Santa Clara University, who has followed the negotiations. The guild will conduct elections for its national president in September. 
 ''The internal divide within the Guild will quickly become an issue again, first in the fall national elections and then again in the preparations for the 2011 contract negotiations,'' Mr. Diamond said.
 The producers' alliance hailed the ratification as ''good news for the entertainment industry.'' In a statement, the alliance said: ''We look forward to working with S.A.G. members -- and with everyone else in our industry -- to emerge from today's significant economic challenges with a strong and growing business.''
 While the Screen Actors Guild remains the major union representing actors who work in feature films, it lost considerable ground in the last year in television work, in large part because television producers did not want to risk starting new television series with a union that might go on strike. 
 Therefore, many new television deals were struck instead with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, a smaller union. Of the 30 television series that were ordered by the major broadcast networks for next season, 25 were covered by the smaller union and only 5 by the Screen Actors Guild, according to the Associated Press. A year earlier, the larger union had covered 19 of 22 new shows. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (94%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); FILM (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); STREAMING MEDIA (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



238 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 70 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on Sunday about major corporate law firms in New York that are eliminating jobs in the recession misspelled part of the name of a firm that has already closed because of the economy. It is Thacher, Proffitt & Wood, not Thatcher. (The error also appeared on Feb. 22, 2004, in an article in the Westchester Weekly about a lawsuit involving a zoning dispute between a religious school and the village of Mamaroneck.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (88%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); LAWYERS (88%); LITIGATION (86%)

COMPANY: THACHER PROFFITT & WOOD LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



239 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: In Ireland, Making Room for a Kitchen

BYLINE: By LIZA FOREMAN

 BODY:
MALAHIDE, Ireland
 ''Welcome to the doll's house,'' John Shirey said, as he opened the door to his small red-brick home in this popular seaside village just north of Dublin.
The two-story semidetached house had only 1,200 square feet when Mr. Shirey and his wife, Blakey, bought it in 2006, two years after Mr. Shirey's job with a financial company relocated the couple from New Hampshire to Ireland.
 It is the smallest place they have ever owned, they said. ''Americans have no concept of such living spaces,'' Mr. Shirey said. ''The last home that we had was around 3,000 square feet, which is not even big by American standards.'' 
 The four-bedroom house, built in 1987, actually is pretty average for the Dublin area. But, for the Shireys, life without closets and the close proximity of neighboring homes are just some of the adjustments that they have had to make.
 ''We have always lived in suburban-type places, but we have never had the physical closeness to neighbors like we have here,'' Mr. Shirey said. The semidetached house -- the structure shares a wall with the neighbor on one side and has a four-foot-wide strip of garden on the other side -- sits on a plot of 2,000 square feet. 
 Despite the size, the couple bought the house because it fit their budget and had the key features they wanted, including a bathroom off the master bedroom, a garden and a good location. It takes Mr. Shirey only about 20 minutes by train to get to his Dublin office.
 The Shireys did not want to disclose how much they paid, but local real estate agents say prices have dropped by at least 15 to 20 percent since they bought their home three years ago. Ireland's property values have plummeted in recent years, partly because of its own housing bubble and partly to the global economic downturn, with some prices now down by as much as 50 percent.
 Juliet Gethin, a real estate agent with Knight Frank in Dublin, said that despite the downturn, ''Malahide is an exclusive area by the seaside and remains popular with buyers.'' She said current prices in the small town of about 14,000 residents range from $800 to $931 a square foot. 
 After the Shireys bought the house, they immediately began a renovation, creating a glass-covered open-plan living space with a modernized kitchen area, an increase of 150 square feet. They also ripped up the deck and patio that had filled most of the backyard, choosing instead to have a small lawn and the flower beds that Ms. Shirey, a keen gardener, keeps in shape.
 They have done little else to the house, beyond repainting the walls a cream color, and modernizing the house's two-and-a-half bathrooms. The sitting and dining rooms on the ground floor and the bedrooms upstairs are still their original, small dimensions. 
 Over all, the couple says buying in Ireland has turned out well.
 ''Having the patio done was one of the most positive building experiences that I have ever had,'' said Mr. Shirey, who personally built one of the couple's homes in New Hampshire. ''The builders made the date with a week to spare.''
 The hardest part, he said, was getting financing for a mortgage. Because Mr. Shirey is over 55, and therefore closer to retirement, the process was complicated. 
 ''They never even asked if I had permission to live here,'' Mr. Shirey said. ''But they do have a cut-off age of 55 and won't give a mortgage to anyone over 55.''
 The Shireys had sought a standard 30-year mortgage. ''They said 'no way' and offered a 10-year mortgage; we were finally able to negotiate one for 15 years,'' he said.
 And the couple was surprised to find out that they could not add the stamp duty, the 9 percent tax levied by the government on some home buyers, to their mortgage. ''Americans would gag'' at that, Mr. Shirey said.
 Still, Mr. Shirey said, he enjoys living so close to his neighbors. ''In America you have to make an effort.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); GARDENING (70%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); HOUSING BUBBLE (61%)

COMPANY: KNIGHT FRANK LLP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%) IRELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



240 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Luring the Best Students

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The announcement that the State Department has begun working to reduce visa processing delays is welcome news (''Department Tackles Visa Delay for Researchers,'' news article, June 3). 
 The world's intellectual talent plays an important role in strengthening the United States economy. For decades, American graduate schools have been the principal destination for international students seeking an advanced degree. Graduate students, including those from overseas, make important contributions to research and development as well as technological advancement. They are our future knowledge creators, leaders and experts in a wide range of fields.
 To enhance American competitiveness, we must continue to attract and retain the top brainpower from around the globe, while simultaneously increasing the number of domestic students, especially those from underrepresented groups, who pursue and complete advanced degrees in key fields. 
 If we don't welcome the world's best and brightest students, they have a growing number of options elsewhere.
 Debra W. Stewart President Council of Graduate Schools Washington, June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (88%); GIFTED EDUCATION (87%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



241 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inventories Declined in April

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Wholesalers slashed inventories more than expected in April as businesses struggled to get stockpiles in line with falling sales.
 Still, analysts were slightly encouraged because sales dipped at a slower pace than in the previous month. 
The Commerce Department said Tuesday that wholesale inventories fell 1.4 percent in April, more than the 1.1 percent decline that economists expected. It was the eighth consecutive month that inventories dropped.
 Sales at the wholesale level fell 0.4 percent in April, after a 2.4 percent drop in March. Sales by wholesalers have fallen in nine of the last 10 months.
 David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York, said he viewed the smaller sales decline as a ''little sign'' that sales were beginning to stabilize.
 Domestic consumers, who pulled the United States out of the last two recessions by increasing their spending, will also be critical to a recovery since export sales are expected to remain weak.
 The ratio of inventories to sales stood at 1.31, meaning it would take 1.31 months to exhaust total stockpiles at the April sales pace. That ratio had stood at 1.32 in March, and was 1.12 in April 2008.
 The reduction in stockpiles held on shelves and back lots has contributed to the economy's sharp contraction as factories have been forced to cut production.
 The gross domestic product plunged at an annual rate of 5.7 percent in the January-March period after falling by 6.1 percent in the last three months of last year, the largest six-month decline in more than a half-century.
 Economists hope that businesses are close to getting their inventories more in line with reduced sales levels. Once that occurs, businesses are expected to start increasing orders, which will translate into stronger manufacturing activity.
 That increased production is expected to be crucial in helping to end the recession, which began in December 2007 and is now the longest since World War II.
 The 1.4 percent fall in wholesale inventories followed a 1.8 percent drop in March which was revised from an original estimate of a 1.6 percent decline.
 Many economists say the believe that overall economic activity is falling 2 to 3 percent in the current quarter, and expect G.D.P. to turn slightly positive in the third quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); RECESSION (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EXPORT TRADE (53%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



242 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: College in Need Closes a Door to Needy Students

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
The admissions team at Reed College, known for its free-spirited students, learned in March that the prospective freshman class it had so carefully composed after weeks of reviewing essays, scores and recommendations was unworkable. 
 Money was the problem. Too many of the students needed financial aid, and the college did not have enough. So the director of financial aid gave the team another task: drop more than 100 needy students before sending out acceptances, and substitute those who could pay full freight.
 The whole idea of excluding a student simply because of money clashed with the college's ideals, Leslie Limper, the aid director, acknowledged. ''None of us are very happy,'' she said, adding that Reed did not strike anyone from its list last year and that never before had it needed to weed out so many worthy students. ''Sometimes I wonder why I'm still doing this.''
 That decision was one of several agonizing ones for this small private college, celebrated for its combination of academic rigor and a laid-back approach to education that once attracted Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive of Apple, to study on its leafy campus minutes from downtown. 
 With their endowments ravaged by the financial markets and more students clamoring for assistance, private colleges like Reed are making numerous changes this year in staff, students, tuition and classes that they hope will tide them over without harming their reputations or their educational goals.
 Reed and others have admitted more students to bolster revenue with larger classes. Many are cutting costs by freezing or reducing salaries, suspending hiring and postponing building maintenance and construction. And the cost of attendance is rising; in Reed's case, by 3.8 percent, to nearly $50,000 a year for its 1,300 students.
 But Reed has put off drastic measures like spending more of its endowment, closing some departments or selling some real estate near campus. Instead, college officials are counting on the economy to turn around quickly, as became apparent when they allowed a New York Times reporter to sit in on budget discussions this spring.
 ''Like everybody, we are trying to start by trying to cut the stuff that is least likely to inflict real pain on the program,'' said Colin Diver, Reed's president. When he talks about Reed's short-term response to the recession, Mr. Diver concedes he is torn, wondering whether a broader reassessment would be in order. 
 Perhaps it would be a good thing, he said, if the recession could refocus college administrators on the quality of higher education, rather than on investments in climbing walls (Reed does not have one) and other ''country club'' aspects of college life that have fueled an academic arms race reliant on tuition increases and fund-raising. 
 ''The catering to consumer tastes -- I keep trying to say, we are in the education business,'' Mr. Diver said, describing the pressure to keep up with wealthier colleges and expressing a frustration rarely voiced publicly by college presidents. ''The whole principle behind higher education is, we know something that you don't. Therefore, we shouldn't cater to them.''
 But no college president wants to be first to make major changes in the college experience; Reed, for example, is not abandoning plans for a new performing arts center. ''If we're going to change our ways, we're really going to need to be pushed,'' Mr. Diver said, referring to colleges generally. ''It's not going to well up from within.''
 So for now, the changes are modest and nearly invisible to students. The impact is mostly in the composition of the student body over the next four years.
 Reed has for now cast aside its hopes of accepting students based purely on merit, without regard to wealth, and still meeting their financial need. Only the nation's richest colleges do that. What's more, when Reed turned to its waiting list this year, it tapped only students who could pay their way.
 This year, the financial aid office put together its own, separate wait list for students whose circumstances had changed or whose financial requests were incomplete. Though Reed had pruned its admissions list for financial reasons before, it always found a way to help the few students with unexpected setbacks. This year, dozens of requests came in. Only a few got extra.
 ''We had so many of these people,'' Ms. Limper said, ''we had to say, oh my goodness, we can't offer aid to everyone who needs it.''
 Hannah C. Moser, 17, needed financial help; her father is a paramedic, her mother is ill and her parents are divorcing. Thrilled with the small classes and quirky students, she applied to Reed last fall and was ecstatic when she learned she was admitted -- through an informal announcement that came in haikus by e-mail. 
 But she said she qualified for only $14,000 in aid, far less than any other college offered. She later discovered that she had not sent in a required form. She was placed on the aid wait list, to no avail. This fall, she will enroll at Willamette University in Salem, Ore., not too far from her hometown, Sedro-Woolley, Wash.
 ''I've actually struggled pretty bad with not being able to go to Reed, just because it was my reach school and everything about it was perfect and I impossibly got in,'' said Ms. Moser, an aspiring writer. ''And then I couldn't go.''
 This year, there was a 23 percent increase in freshmen seeking financial aid, and twice as many students have appealed their aid packages, said Ms. Limper, the aid director. ''We have established some pretty stringent guidelines,'' she said, first trying to help ''the people with changed circumstances.''
 Those guidelines have given priority to students already enrolled like Becca Roberts, a 19-year-old from Los Angeles whose mother lost her job at a film distribution company last fall.
 ''It was sort of unforeseen,'' Ms. Roberts said, ''because the company seemed to be doing very well.'' She feared she would be unable to return in the spring. When her mother called the college to describe their plight, Reed came up with more aid, thanks to the president's discretionary fund. For the second semester, Ms. Roberts started work as a photographer for the college, watched her spending, stuck to the dining hall and tried not to venture off campus.
 As job losses mount, more students like her may plead for help next year. But Ms. Limper does not expect to find money again. The budget, she said, is too tight.
 When members of Reed's board met in February and April to hammer out the budget, their priority was protecting the character of the college. Most of the members are alumni, with fond memories of earnest dialogue with professors in small groups, sometimes outside on the grass.
 None of the options were appealing. Admitting more students would raise the student-faculty ratio, a measure of academic quality and, at Reed, a sign of the importance of interaction with professors. Raising tuition and fees would add to pressure on already-struggling families. Cutting spending could make it harder to recruit faculty members and could limit student resources.
 Dipping further into the endowment, which provides about 20 percent of Reed's budget, could imperil the college's long-term survival. Last year, the endowment fell by nearly 25 percent, to $357 million, from $470 million. At a meeting with the budget committee of Reed's board, Mr. Diver said he was reluctant to tap more of the fund: ''I'm not proposing that.''
 Members of the board did not push back at the time. But afterward, Daniel Greenberg, a Los Angeles businessman who is the group's chairman, said he was not sure that the endowment should be off limits. ''If we need to basically depend on the endowment, let's increase the take rate,'' he said, referring to the percentage of the endowment spent by the college every year. ''We should do it if it will protect the character of the college.''
 Instead, the board has approved increases in tuition and fees that bring the total cost of a year at Reed to $49,950. The college will have nearly 400 new first-year and transfer students in the fall, up from 355 last year. 
 Reed has increased its financial aid budget by 7.8 percent. It aims to use part of the $200 million it hopes to raise in a capital campaign, announced this spring, for financial aid in future years.
 The college has cut 5 percent of its spending except on personnel. It has avoided layoffs -- unlike some other institutions -- though it is not filling vacancies.
 Like many colleges, Reed is betting on a quick recovery of the economy and the financial markets to fuel endowment growth of 10 percent annually -- including investment returns and gifts -- beginning next year.
 Asked by a board member what would happen if those assumptions did not pan out, the college's treasurer, Edwin O. McFarlane, was blunt: ''We'll have to revisit the whole ballgame.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In February, Barbara Isgur, center, and other Reed College board members looked at the budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) CHART: Trying to Get Through the Downturn at One College: At Reed College, tuition paid by students provides most of the revenue
 the endowment contributes about 20 percent. Each year, the college spends 5.3 percent of the average value of the endowment of the past three years. Even if the economy turns around and markets rebound, the endowment's contribution is expected to fall for several years. (Source: Reed College) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%) OREGON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



243 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Response To Bank News Is Muted

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
It was the news that some big banks had been waiting weeks to hear -- on Tuesday morning, the Treasury Department said that 10 large banks could repay $68 billion in bailout money. But Wall Street's reaction was largely a yawn.
 Stocks ended the day mixed, much as they did on Monday, a sign that the announcement from Washington came as no surprise to investors. Many banks that took government lifelines last fall have been chafing under government oversight, and have been pushing to give back the money. 
 Technology shares and energy producers were higher, but financial stocks mostly drifted. Banks that announced they would give back their share of the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program funds, including U.S. Bancorp, American Express, BB&T and Morgan Stanley, were mixed.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was 1.43 points lower at 8,763.06 while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 3.29 points, or 0.4 percent, higher at 942.43. The Nasdaq, buoyed by gains in circuit makers and computer chip manufacturers, rose 17.73 points, or 0.96 percent, to 1,860.13.
 Shares of Texas Instruments rose $1.25, or 6.3 percent, as the chip maker raised its outlook for second-quarter earnings and revenue, a sign that technology companies were withstanding the downturn. The Nasdaq is up 18 percent for the year while other market indexes are still in negative territory or only slightly positive.
 Banking analysts welcomed the bailout repayments as another sign that the financial system was gradually trying to get back on its feet.
 But there were few surprises in the Treasury Department's announcement. Banks with stronger capital positions are repaying their asset relief funds while others, including Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo, are still holding billions in government equity.
 As the faltering economy struggles to turn around, businesses cut their inventories for an eighth month in April as they tried to square their supplies with falling demand, the Commerce Department reported on Tuesday. Inventories fell 1.4 percent for the month and were down 6.2 percent from last April. 
 Wholesalers of automobiles, furniture, lumber products, metals and electrical equipment all scaled back their inventories. While the cuts indicate that businesses still face low sales and sluggish demand, economists say that inventory reductions are necessary to rebalance the economy.
 In other markets, oil prices rose $1.92 to settle at $70.01 a barrel in New York trading. The value of the dollar, which often moves in the opposite direction of crude oil, slid against major currencies on continuing concerns about inflation. 
 Investors have cheered a stock rally that lifted the S.& P. 500 nearly 40 percent since early March, but as the worries of financial apocalypse fade, some are worried about the prospect of how a decaying dollar or higher interest rates on government bonds could affect the economy's chances for recovery.
 But strong demand at an auction of three-year Treasury notes helped to curb the upward creep of interest rates on government debt. Investors showed an appetite for shorter-term government securities, which pushed yields lower.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 4/32, to 94, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 3.86 percent, down from 3.87 percent late Monday.
 Following are the results of the Treasury's auction Tuesday of four-week bills and three-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BONDS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); WHOLESALERS (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); MICROPROCESSORS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (62%); MOTOR VEHICLE WHOLESALERS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); U S BANCORP (70%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (70%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); TXN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



244 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Waterfront Ambitions Rise in Boston

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
In the last decade, two monumental public works campaigns -- a cleanup of Boston Harbor and the infamously protracted Big Dig -- were completed that were expected to set the stage for a 21st-century transformation of downtown Boston. 
 In April 2008, a city agency produced a summary of 250 construction projects that were planned or had already been approved: soaring office towers, biotech innovation centers, downtown shopping areas and thousands of rental apartments, lofts and condominiums. 
 Fourteen months later, a quarter of the projects from that $12 billion list are being built, and three of the largest are along the city's waterfront.
 At 280 Congress Street, Russia Wharf, a $550 million 32-story office, residential and retail project is rising from a collection of late 19th-century mercantile buildings. Across the Fort Point Channel, the Fallon Company is completing a $275 million 18-story office tower at a project called Fan Pier. And a block south of Russia Wharf, a third project -- the $110 million 12-story office building at Two Financial Center -- nears completion. 
 According to the Boston Redevelopment Authority, the municipal agency that prepared last year's summary, the three office buildings are the city's first since 2004. 
 A number of prominent Boston developers assert that there may be no others for at least three years and maybe longer. Referring to the economic downturn and credit squeeze, Joe Fallon, the principal of the Fallon Company, which is developing Fan Pier, said: ''We've never lived through anything like this. If money would loosen and banks get back to doing what they are supposed to do -- lend money -- we would start more construction here. Before the downturn, we were seeing a big demand for premium office space.''
 Indeed, before the downturn this 379-year-old port city made enormous public investments in infrastructure over two decades. In 2000, the city and state completed the $3.9 billion cleanup of Boston Harbor, a 14-year project that produced a state-of-the-art sewage treatment plant and a tunnel to release treated sewage 9.5 miles offshore.
 The $15 billion Big Dig, which ended in 2007, provided new transit lines, moved Boston's central highway underground, replaced a 1950s-era elevated highway with an expansive green boulevard, and opened access to the city's much cleaner shoreline. 
 ''We've seen two major trends in the last couple of years,'' said Kairos Shen, Boston's chief planner. ''The first is that the infrastructure investment made it possible for the city's center of gravity downtown to steadily move eastward toward the harbor. The second is that the recession and credit crisis have slowed that movement.'' 
 Among major developments that have been delayed are One Franklin Street, a 1.2-million-square-foot, $700 million mixed-use project between the Boston Common and the Financial District that ceased construction in November because the developer, John Hynes III, was unable to secure a $400 million construction loan. 
 Also, the $800 million Columbus Center, between the Back Bay and South End neighborhoods, which was to include a 40-story office tower, did not break ground. 
 The three office developments that are under way were financed before the credit crisis, and they reflect market opportunities made possible by new infrastructure and new policy.
 Two Financial Center, which is being built along the Rose Kennedy Greenway, the grassy boulevard that replaced the elevated highway, is a joint venture of the Lincoln Property Company and ASB Capital Management. In October, the partners landed KPMG, an accounting firm, as its anchor tenant. 
 Boston Properties, the real estate investment trust that is developing Russia Wharf, said last year that the Wellington Management Company, a major investment advisory and asset management firm, had leased 450,000 square feet in the project, which overlooks the Rose Kennedy Greenway on one side and Boston Harbor on the other.
 Then in January, the company persuaded the city to allow it to reduce the number of condominium apartments to 65 from 215, and increase to 709,000 square feet, from 500,000, the amount of office space in the 854,000-square-foot building. The intent was to secure a loan, and it succeeded. In April, Boston Properties announced that five banks led by the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation had awarded it a $215 million construction loan. 
 At Fan Pier in the South Boston Waterfront district, the 500,000-square-foot office structure, which is to be completed early next year, is the first of eight office and residential buildings planned for a 21-acre site that was bought for $115 million in 2005 by the Fallon Company and two partners. 
 The mixed-use harborside community that Mr. Fallon envisions at Fan Pier would span nine blocks with 1.1 million square feet of residential development; 1.2 million square feet of offices; more than 300,000 square feet of ground-floor retailing, restaurants and cafes; a 175-room hotel; a marina; and 107,000 square feet of civic and cultural space. The projected total cost is $1.1 billion. 
 Construction of the first building began last September. The building was viewed as confirmation of the city's plan for the South Boston Waterfront, a once-bleak 1,000 acres of surface parking and empty warehouses that will eventually have 20 million square feet of offices, institutional, commercial and entertainment space and 8,000 units of housing. Some 7 million square feet of construction has been completed.
 Meanwhile, the office market is softening. Colliers Meredith & Grew, a commercial real estate company, says office vacancy rates in Boston have risen to 11.5 percent and could reach 13.5 percent by 2012. A year ago, the rate hovered around 5 percent. 
 But Mr. Fallon is still optimistic. On a warm blue-sky day, he was in the sales office at Fan Pier, where the harbor, the Fort Point Channel and Boston's downtown skyline were reflected in the glass of his new office tower. ''We're going to finish early next year,'' he said, ''and when we do, we'll have the best place to work on the entire waterfront. Just look at how beautiful it is here.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages on June 10 about major buildings under construction near the waterfront in Boston misstated the city's office vacancy rate of about a year ago. It was about 8 percent, not about 5 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joe Fallon is a developer of Fan Pier, a mixed-use harborside community in the South Boston Waterfront district. He is confident of resilient office demand.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COMPOSITE PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At 280 Congress Street, Russia Wharf, a $550 million, 32-story office, residential and retail project, is continuing to rise on Boston Harbor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Three large projects in progress are clustered around the water. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); TRENDS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



245 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Life Without King Auto

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY; Louis Uchitelle contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The former General Motors Centerpoint truck plant in Pontiac, Mich., is another empty building that served for years as a reminder of the declining fortunes of American automakers.
 But the day after G.M. filed for bankruptcy, it was bustling with activity. 
 Ed Montgomery, the Obama administration's director of recovery for auto communities and workers, was touring the building with camera crews in tow.
 Amid all the grim auto news, it was as good a photo op as he could have hoped for -- the building was the future home of the Motown Motion Picture Studio. 
 The state, with the help of incentives, lured 25 film crews to Michigan last year to shoot movies like ''The Day the Earth Stood Still'' and ''Gran Torino,'' from Clint Eastwood, and officials are hopeful about a new growth industry. 
 ''I'm very optimistic about the project,'' said Mr. Montgomery, adding that the studio could create 3,000 new jobs. ''That's an excellent start.''
 But any promising starts in Michigan are overshadowed by the brutal reality of the state's economic plight. Just across the street from the building Mr. Montgomery was touring, workers at a huge G.M. truck plant learned the day before that their factory would be closing, one of seven more Michigan plants the automaker plans to shut down.
 G.M. has promised to use its tour through bankruptcy to become a more nimble and competitive company, but Michigan faces an even tougher task in reinventing itself.
 For all the talk of California's economic woes, the distress in Michigan is greater. About 800,000 jobs have been lost in the state -- about one in every six -- since 2000, and its unemployment rate has reached 12.7 percent, higher than any other state. 
 The fallout has been even worse in heavily populated southeastern Michigan. Manufacturing jobs in the seven-county region that includes Detroit have fallen 51 percent since the beginning of the decade, and auto-related positions have fallen 65 percent.
 The economic crisis has been so severe that Michigan, with a $1.4 billion budget shortfall, is closing eight prisons to save money. It is also canceling more than 130 road and bridge repair projects because the state cannot come up with enough money to get matching federal funds.
 ''Movie studio jobs are going to be measured in the hundreds,'' said Don Grimes, an economic forecaster at the University of Michigan. ''It's nowhere near the replacement numbers for what's going on.''
 On a broader level, the troubles of the auto industry are having a profound impact on the overall United States economy. The industry -- with Michigan as its center -- now accounts for only 1.5 percent of the nation's economic output, down from 3 percent in 2007 and 5 percent at its peak in the 1950s. 
 The automakers have historically played a big part in ending recessions. Car companies, in the past, would increase production and add workers to satisfy pent-up consumer demand after a downturn. But now, the industry's troubles may be prolonging the misery.
 ''If not for the problems in the auto industry, this recession would have been much milder,'' said Ben Herzon, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisors, in St. Louis.
 In Michigan, the state's leaders are hoping to build on what's left of the once-mighty Big Three automakers, and attract new jobs tied to the alternative-fuel vehicles of the future. 
 The state has authorized tax credits to support a new battery manufacturing plant for G.M., and similar assistance for three other proposed battery projects. The jobs created will number in the hundreds at first, but state officials are hopeful that Michigan will be at the center of battery development nationwide.
 Still, battery production has a long way to go to match the jobs being lost. On Monday, G.M. opened a new battery lab at its Warren, Mich., technical center that will be used by an existing team of about 1,000 engineers. On the same day, the company said it would cut an additional 400 union jobs by shutting down medium-duty truck production in Flint. 
 Michigan is also pursuing wind-power technology, solar-panel manufacturing, even production of railroad cars -- any viable industry that might be interested in hiring the thousands of engineers who used to work in the auto industry.
 ''This community still has a lot of things going for it,'' said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan. ''This is the heart of the automotive research capital of the world, and there's a strong structure to build on.''
 The bankruptcies of G.M. and Chrysler have, if nothing else, kept both of the automakers alive for the foreseeable future. The state has thus avoided its worst nightmare -- that G.M.'s headquarters in Detroit and Chrysler's sprawling technical center in Auburn Hills would be added to the list of vacant buildings along the Interstate 75 automotive corridor.
 The research and development campuses at the Detroit automakers, as well as new operations occupied by Toyota and Hyundai, are the foundation for growth in new technologies like lithium-ion batteries. 
 But those operations cannot replace the tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs that G.M., Ford, Chrysler and their suppliers have shed in recent years. 
 White-collar positions have also steadily decreased at all the automakers and their suppliers. In response, Gov. Jennifer Granholm started a retraining program in 2007 -- ''No Worker Left Behind'' -- to provide up to two years of free tuition to unemployed workers. So far, more than 60,000 people have signed up. 
 Providing education for laid-off workers is a priority for Governor Granholm, who joined Mr. Montgomery last week on his tour of the Pontiac movie studio. 
 ''We are not interested in looking in the rearview mirror,'' she said. ''We need to be able to play both offense and defense.''
 Retraining is essential to broaden the skills of factory workers and others in the hardest-hit segments of the economy. ''The recession is just crushing industries that tend to employ people with less education -- construction, manufacturing, retail stores,'' said Mr. Grimes.
 Classrooms at community colleges across the state are jammed with former auto industry employees trying to prepare themselves for a new career.
 Greg Cortis, 36, had been a contract worker at G.M.'s huge technical center in Warren, Mich., for three years before he was laid off in October. He is taking courses in carpentry, electrical work and other construction skills in Oakland Community College's facilities management program.
 Leaving the auto industry behind, after a total of 15 years in the business, was difficult, he said, but a fact of life in today's Michigan. ''You've got to work,'' said Mr. Cortis. ''I don't want to be on a two- or three-year unemployment extension.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Greg Cortis, top left, with Douglas Karolski, was laid off as a contract worker at G.M. last year. Now he's taking classes, building house models, above, and hoping to find work outside Michigan's troubled auto industry.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, left, talks with Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan and Ed Montgomery, the director of recovery for auto communities and workers, in a tour of a G.M. plant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE FECHT FOR GENERAL MOTORS)
 In Pontiac, Mich., G.M.'s truck group headquarters, which once employed almost 10,000 engineers, sits vacant. The state has lost 800,000 jobs since 2000, and its jobless rate is 12.7 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); BUDGETS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (66%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (66%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: HILDA L SOLIS (57%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); CLINT EASTWOOD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



246 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Sea of Red Ink: How It Spread From a Puddle

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There are two basic truths about the enormous deficits that the federal government will run in the coming years. 
 The first is that President Obama's agenda, ambitious as it may be, is responsible for only a sliver of the deficits, despite what many of his Republican critics are saying. The second is that Mr. Obama does not have a realistic plan for eliminating the deficit, despite what his advisers have suggested.
 The New York Times analyzed Congressional Budget Office reports going back almost a decade, with the aim of understanding how the federal government came to be far deeper in debt than it has been since the years just after World War II. This debt will constrain the country's choices for years and could end up doing serious economic damage if foreign lenders become unwilling to finance it.
 Mr. Obama -- responding to recent signs of skittishness among those lenders -- met with 40 members of Congress at the White House on Tuesday and called for the re-enactment of pay-as-you-go rules, requiring Congress to pay for any new programs it passes. 
 The story of today's deficits starts in January 2001, as President Bill Clinton was leaving office. The Congressional Budget Office estimated then that the government would run an average annual surplus of more than $800 billion a year from 2009 to 2012. Today, the government is expected to run a $1.2 trillion annual deficit in those years.
 You can think of that roughly $2 trillion swing as coming from four broad categories: the business cycle, President George W. Bush's policies, policies from the Bush years that are scheduled to expire but that Mr. Obama has chosen to extend, and new policies proposed by Mr. Obama. 
 The first category -- the business cycle -- accounts for 37 percent of the $2 trillion swing. It's a reflection of the fact that both the 2001 recession and the current one reduced tax revenue, required more spending on safety-net programs and changed economists' assumptions about how much in taxes the government would collect in future years.
 About 33 percent of the swing stems from new legislation signed by Mr. Bush. That legislation, like his tax cuts and the Medicare prescription drug benefit, not only continue to cost the government but have also increased interest payments on the national debt. 
 Mr. Obama's main contribution to the deficit is his extension of several Bush policies, like the Iraq war and tax cuts for households making less than $250,000. Such policies -- together with the Wall Street bailout, which was signed by Mr. Bush and supported by Mr. Obama -- account for 20 percent of the swing.
 About 7 percent comes from the stimulus bill that Mr. Obama signed in February. And only 3 percent comes from Mr. Obama's agenda on health care, education, energy and other areas. 
 If the analysis is extended further into the future, well beyond 2012, the Obama agenda accounts for only a slightly higher share of the projected deficits.
 How can that be? Some of his proposals, like a plan to put a price on carbon emissions, don't cost the government any money. Others would be partly offset by proposed tax increases on the affluent and spending cuts. Congressional and White House aides agree that no large new programs, like an expansion of health insurance, are likely to pass unless they are paid for.
 Alan Auerbach, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, and an author of a widely cited study on the dangers of the current deficits, describes the situation like so: ''Bush behaved incredibly irresponsibly for eight years. On the one hand, it might seem unfair for people to blame Obama for not fixing it. On the other hand, he's not fixing it.''
 ''And,'' he added, ''not fixing it is, in a sense, making it worse.''
 When challenged about the deficit, Mr. Obama and his advisers generally start talking about health care. ''There is no way you can put the nation on a sound fiscal course without wringing inefficiencies out of health care,'' Peter Orszag, the White House budget director, told me. 
 Outside economists agree. The Medicare budget really is the linchpin of deficit reduction. But there are two problems with leaving the discussion there.
 First, even if a health overhaul does pass, it may not include the tough measures needed to bring down spending. Ultimately, the only way to do so is to take money from doctors, drug makers and insurers, and it isn't clear whether Mr. Obama and Congress have the stomach for that fight. So far, they have focused on ideas like preventive care that would do little to cut costs. 
 Second, even serious health care reform won't be enough. Obama advisers acknowledge as much. They say that changes to the system would probably have a big effect on health spending starting in five or 10 years. The national debt, however, will grow dangerously large much sooner.
 Mr. Orszag says the president is committed to a deficit equal to no more than 3 percent of gross domestic product within five to 10 years. The Congressional Budget Office projects a deficit of at least 4 percent for most of the next decade. Even that may turn out to be optimistic, since the government usually ends up spending more than it says it will. So Mr. Obama isn't on course to meet his target.
 But Congressional Republicans aren't, either. Judd Gregg recently held up a chart on the Senate floor showing that Mr. Obama would increase the deficit -- but failed to mention that much of the increase stemmed from extending Bush policies. In fact, unlike Mr. Obama, Republicans favor extending all the Bush tax cuts, which will send the deficit higher.
 Republican leaders in the House, meanwhile, announced a plan last week to cut spending by $75 billion a year. But they made specific suggestions adding up to meager $5 billion. The remaining $70 billion was left vague. ''The G.O.P. is not serious about cutting down spending,'' the conservative Cato Instituteconcluded. 
 What, then, will happen? 
 ''Things will get worse gradually,'' Mr. Auerbach predicts, ''unless they get worse quickly.'' Either a solution will be put off, or foreign lenders, spooked by the rising debt, will send interest rates higher and create a crisis.
 The solution, though, is no mystery. It will involve some combination of tax increases and spending cuts. And it won't be limited to pay-as-you-go rules, tax increases on somebody else, or a crackdown on waste, fraud and abuse. Your taxes will probably go up, and some government programs you favor will become less generous.
 That is the legacy of our trillion-dollar deficits. Erasing them will be one of the great political issues of the coming decade. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: How Trillion-Dollar Deficits Were Created: To understand the looming deficits, The New York Times analyzed Congressional Budget Office projections of the budget surplus or deficit for the years 2009-12, President Obama's current term. The budget office has been making estimates for these years for nearly a decade now. The numbers that appear below are the average annual deficit or surplus for this four-year period. (Source: New York Times analysis of Congressional Budget Office data) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX RELIEF (85%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); IRAQ WAR (74%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



247 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Is Now Less Popular Than Spitzer

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DALIA SUSSMAN; Marjorie Connelly, Marina Stefan and Megan Thee-Brenan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Fourteen months after being elevated to the governor's job, David A. Paterson is deeply unpopular among New Yorkers, who doubt his ability to grapple with the state's increasingly bleak economic situation, according to a poll by The New York Times, Cornell University and NY1 News.
 With layoffs hitting close to home, those surveyed expressed little confidence that Mr. Paterson could bring new jobs to the state, reduce property taxes or deal with a serious crisis. 
 Mr. Paterson is now less popular in the state than his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, who resigned in disgrace after being identified as the client of a prostitution ring. Only 21 percent of New York voters say they have a favorable view of Mr. Paterson; 26 percent have a favorable view of Mr. Spitzer.
 Seven in 10 respondents said Mr. Paterson did not deserve to be elected in 2010.
 In a worrisome sign for Mr. Paterson, the poll found overwhelming approval of the way Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo was handling his job. Mr. Cuomo is viewed as a potential challenger for the Democratic Party's nomination for governor.
 The survey also revealed that the number of New Yorkers who supported the legalization of same-sex marriage had risen in the last year.
 The poll, a telephone survey of 1,057 adults throughout the state, was conducted from May 29 through June 3 -- before the Republicans wrested control of the Senate -- and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
 With 17 months until he is up for election, Mr. Paterson may have time to repair his image. But in follow-up interviews, those surveyed seemed to rue having given him the benefit of the doubt a year ago. And voters appeared to be souring on Mr. Paterson personally, with 50 percent viewing him unfavorably, five times as many as a year ago.
 ''He said he was going to make government transparent so everyone could see what was going on,'' said Craig Tatro, a retired correction officer in Constable, along the Canadian border. ''He said things would change, but in the end it was still three men in the room making the budget up. So I don't take him at his word.''
 Even black New Yorkers took a dim view of the state's first black governor: 38 percent approved of his performance, 41 percent disapproved. Only 22 percent viewed him favorably.
 Maxwell Simon, 40, an African-American from Jamaica, Queens, said he doubted that Mr. Paterson was capable of cleaning up what he called the ''mess'' in Albany. ''I think a governor should have certain powers, exert influence, but I'm not sure he believes he does,'' Mr. Simon said. ''Maybe people don't take him seriously either because they don't believe he will run or be elected.''
 Making matters worse for Mr. Paterson, the poll found an increasingly dismal outlook among New Yorkers, with 7 in 10 saying the state was on the wrong track, up 12 points from a year ago. Three of four rated the state's economy in bad shape, and one in three said they would prefer to live in another state.
 Not surprisingly, unemployment, the economy and taxes topped the list of problems respondents wanted Mr. Paterson to concentrate on the most.
 The poll found economic anxieties rooted in personal experience, with 45 percent of workers saying their employers had laid off people in the past 12 months. More than a third of those surveyed said they were very concerned that they or someone they live with might lose their job in the next year, and 8 in 10 said they had made cutbacks in their day-to-day spending over the last year. One in five said an adult in their household had been unemployed in the past year, seriously affecting the family's standard of living.
 Nearly half were very concerned about not having enough money for retirement, and 3 in 10 said they were paying more than they could afford for housing. Three in 10 also said they were less able to pay off their debts now than a year ago.
 Mr. Paterson's poor standing came across in a variety of ways. Asked the best thing he had done so far, nearly 6 in 10 respondents could not come up with a single answer. Asked what he had done worst, the most frequent response was taxes, but others included the economy, unemployment, his management of the state budget, his appointment of Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, and the same-sex marriage bill.
 ''I was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt when he replaced Spitzer, but the way he handled the Gillibrand appointment bothered me,'' said James Tonlon, a retired high school teacher in Floral Park, on Long Island. ''I thought a guy who's been around as long as Paterson would have a little more political savvy.''
 George Bores, a retired New York City police officer living in Williston Park, said that he did not trust any politicians but that he was particularly down on Mr. Paterson, who was making him pine for Mr. Spitzer. ''I just don't think he can do anything right,'' he said of Mr. Paterson. ''I'd rather have someone who ran the government well. What someone does in their private life doesn't bother me.''
 Mr. Bores said he thought Mr. Cuomo would be a more effective governor. ''I would vote for Cuomo if he ran,'' he said. ''We belong to the senior citizens center, and this is the first time that a representative from the attorney general's office came to see us, to talk about fraud and pass out all these pamphlets. I like that. It's very enlightened.''
 Despite Mr. Paterson's poor ratings, most New Yorkers still said he cared about their needs and problems, although fewer said so than a year ago. And they were more than twice as likely to say that he had more honesty and integrity than most people in public life than they were to say he had less.
 Another bright spot for the governor is that New Yorkers increasingly are coming around to his viewpoint on same-sex marriage, which he has pushed to legalize in Albany. Forty-six percent now say gay couples should be allowed to marry legally, up from 38 percent a year ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. David A. Paterson at a New York State Police graduation on Tuesday. Seven in 10 survey respondents said he did not deserve to be elected in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: NEW YORK'S VIEW OF THE GOVERNOR (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); APPROVALS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); PROSTITUTION (55%); MARRIAGE (51%); GAYS & LESBIANS (51%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



248 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Candidates In Iran Split On Direction Of Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
In the West, Iran's coming presidential election is viewed largely through the lens of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's crackdown on social freedoms and his combative approach to Israel, the United States, and Iran's nuclear program. 
 But here, as in so many other elections, another issue is seen as more important: the economy. Iran's crippling inflation rate, unemployment, and the question of how its oil revenue is being spent are at the top of the agenda for most voters, analysts say. 
 The two main camps here see the issue in starkly opposed terms, with Mr. Ahmadinejad's supporters saying his policies have improved things for average people, while all three of his challengers in the election on Friday insist that the economy is in serious trouble. Even when it comes to basic economic indicators, the two sides often present starkly opposed statistics and projections, leaving many voters confused about what to believe. 
 To some extent, both sides have a case to make: Mr. Ahmadinejad's populist policies have enriched some segments of the population, but a longer trend of unemployment and economic stagnation is evident as well.
 In his debates with other candidates, Mr. Ahmadinejad has held up graph after graph purporting to show that Iran's economy is in splendid shape, cruising through the global recession that has ravaged much of the West. 
 In fact, growth has slowed sharply in Iran, which is heavily dependent on oil exports. The International Monetary Fund projects the country's economy will expand by 3.2 percent in 2009, down from 4.5 percent in 2008 and nearly 8 percent in 2007.
 During a debate on Saturday, one of Mr. Ahmadinejad's rivals watched in disbelief -- eyes wide, head cocked as though knocked off balance -- as the president delivered a cheerful lecture about his good economic stewardship. 
 ''Do you think I came from the desert, and that I don't know anything about figures?'' said the candidate, Mehdi Karroubi, his voice almost quivering with outrage. 
 Mr. Karroubi went on to dispute Mr. Ahmadinejad's numbers, including his claim that inflation was at 14 percent, not the 23.6 percent reported this week by Iran's Central Bank. 
 Other challengers have done the same thing, holding up their own graphs and reading litanies of gloomy statistics on job losses and slumping oil revenue.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad did not invent the numbers, as his detractors claim, but he emphasized some data that suited his purposes and ignored other widely used indicators. 
 Inflation is about 14 percent when it is measured as the year-on-year change in prices, said Saeed Leylaz, an economist who was briefly a minister in the reformist government of Mohammad Khatami. But in Iran as elsewhere, inflation is usually referred to as an annualized average, or projected annual rate, based on the rise in prices in a recent month or quarter, and by that measure it is 23.6 percent, according to Iran's Central Bank. 
 Measured either way, inflation is far higher today than it was four years ago, even as growth has slowed, undermining Mr. Ahmadinejad's claim that the economy has improved on his watch. 
 Mr. Leylaz said that revenues from oil exports soared in the last few years, and that petrodollars pumped into the economy tended to fuel inflation rather than productive growth. The accusation that Iran's oil wealth has been wasted is rooted in fact, he argued. 
 In addition, unemployment is increasing fast. It was 10.5 percent four years ago, and it is now 17 percent, Mr. Leylaz said. 
 ''The problem is that Ahmadinejad has focused on the distribution of wealth, and what we need is the creation of wealth,'' Mr. Leylaz said. With a disproportionately young population, Iran desperately needs more economic growth and more jobs. 
 Instead, economists say, Mr. Ahmadinejad has bought political support among the poor and lower middle class by increasing pensions and government workers' wages. He has also handed out so-called justice shares of state firms that are selling stock to the public, and provided low-interest loans to young married couples and entrepreneurs. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad's rivals say the money should have been spent on creating jobs and improving Iran's infrastructure. 
 Yet the populist policies clearly serve a purpose. 
 ''He helps the poor, he supports the families of the martyrs and the wounded,'' said Hassan Muhammad Zadeh, a 47-year-old veteran who had come to show his support at a vast Ahmadinejad rally on Monday. 
 Mr. Zadeh explained that his pension had more than doubled, to $500 a month, since Mr. Ahmadinejad came to office. 
 Others in the swelling crowd, gathered at an unfinished prayer hall in central Tehran, had their own stories of how loans and salary increases had cemented their loyalty to Mr. Ahmadinejad, who is widely seen here as simple man with a deep sympathy for the poor. 
 ''Who says Ahmadinejad created unemployment?'' said Hamid Nassiri, a 25-year-old from south Tehran who works in a market. ''It's not true at all. He is from the people, and he attends to the people's needs.''
 Those who oppose Mr. Ahmadinejad tend to be better off and more educated. Issues like social freedoms and Iran's reputation in the world are important to them. Many also say his redistributionist policies, while popular, have undermined the economy. 
 ''Ahmadinejad has destroyed the country,'' said Bahram, a 23-year-old student in Tehran, who refused to give his last name because he said he feared repercussions for criticizing the president. ''We need jobs. We want our money to be for us, not for Hezbollah in Lebanon.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On Tuesday, a supporter of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran held a souvenir of Monday's huge election rally for the incumbent in Tehran.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWSHA TAVAKOLIAN/POLARIS, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); STATISTICS (76%); TRENDS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



249 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Clues to the Health Care Puzzle

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Paying for Universal Health Coverage'' (editorial, June 7):
 If it means raising taxes to pay for universal health coverage, so be it. It seems to me that tax and spend for universal health care coverage is better for America than cutting taxes and being forced to borrow. It would be a sign of substantial progress if politicians could begin to win elections even if they say they support raising taxes. 
 Private-sector insurance companies are so caught up in making money that they do not want to relinquish control of the health care system. Health care is for people, not profit. If we truly love our neighbors as we love ourselves, we should be willing to pay for health care for all. 
 Paul L. Whiteley Sr. Louisville, Ky., June 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The Obama administration doesn't need to raise taxes to fix health care. It needs to cut the cost dramatically. This can be done only by abandoning the fee-for-service payment model. The problem with fee-for-service is not merely that it pays providers to provide service; it pays them to create service as well. It is this almost limitless ability of doctors to create service that makes our per capita health care costs twice that of any other developed country.
 If physicians were salaried employees with modest incentives for productivity and outcomes, we could, in very short order, have affordable health care for all.
 Geoff Berg Warren, R.I., June 7, 2009
 The writer is an internist.
 To the Editor:
 While the politics of how to pay for President Obama's goal of universal health coverage is fierce, one source of revenue ought to be a slam dunk: limit the tax exclusion for the value of health insurance for employees at work to a basic policy. 
 For more than 50 years, the tax laws have allowed the exclusion to extend to the most deluxe policies, typically acquired for highly paid employees who are best able to acquire insurance without any government assistance. Yet if Congress limited the exclusion to a basic policy, it could raise hundreds of billions of additional tax dollars over the years to help finance basic coverage for the uninsured and the underinsured, and it would bring down the costs of insurance and health care for everyone.
 Come on, Congress. Can any one of you really justify giving the biggest tax subsidies for the most expensive policies for the highest paid executives? 
 John O. Fox Amherst, Mass., June 8, 2009
 The writer is the author of ''If Americans Really Understood the Income Tax'' and a visiting professor at Mount Holyoke College.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Spending Disparities Set Off a Fight in the Effort to Overhaul Health Care'' (news article, June 9):
 I applaud President Obama in mandating that White House staff members read a recent article in The New Yorker by Dr. Atul Gawande highlighting the huge variance in health spending across our country. I especially applaud President Obama in encapsulating the issue by stating in effect, ''This is what we've got to fix.'' 
 But the remedy being proposed on Capitol Hill will not control the bleeding that plagues Medicare. Cost-shifting by siphoning precious health care dollars from regions of the country with high health use to regions of the country with lower health use is a temporary Band-Aid remedy that will not control the hemorrhage of health care spending. 
 What is lost in the health care debate is that rehospitalizations among Medicare beneficiaries are prevalent and costly. Controlling rehospitalizations may be one curative prescription to control the bleeding.
 Pankaj Gupta Edison, N.J., June 9, 2009
 The writer, a geriatrician, is medical director of a managed care company.
 To the Editor:
 During the last year and a half of my mother-in-law's life, her medical care incurred huge medical expenses as the quality of her life declined. She was in her late 80s, and many of the hospitalizations and tests she endured were unnecessary, painful and redundant. Her doctors did not communicate so her medications were often incompatible. 
 Thousands of dollars could have been saved if her medical records had been electronic and available to both the hospitals and the doctors who were treating her. I believe that in many high-cost areas, making minor changes in patient care and reducing redundancy would improve costs considerably.
 Margie Parko Crossville, Tenn., June 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Downturn Puts a Chokehold on Those Caring for Family Members'' (news article, June 7):
 The enormous financial and emotional challenges faced by the Szalega and Denk families and the many tens of millions of other Americans who grapple daily with caring for a frail elderly parent or relative reveal a patch-quilt long-term care system that is manifestly unfair. Unless we can figure out how to protect ourselves against the catastrophic costs of long-term care, the system will continue to fail society in good economic times and bad. 
 As the Obama administration gears up for health care reform, it must not forget also to address the financing of long-term care services for both the elderly and other vulnerable people with disabilities.
 Dennis L. Kodner Old Westbury, N.Y., June 7, 2009
 The writer is a professor of medicine and gerontology at the New York Institute of Technology.
 To the Editor:
 ''Health Insurers Balk at Changes for Small Business'' (Business Day, June 3) shows another bit of arrogant greed Americans are supposed to accept more or less quietly. The article says ''employer-provided medical insurance remains the bedrock of the nation's health care system.'' Well, it shouldn't be.
 Given the likelihood of being badly squeezed, small businesses would do well to sign on at last for a single-payer health care system that would relieve them of the burden. The customer-be-damned attitude of the private insurers seems increasingly more blatant and hurtful.
 Perhaps like other outdated industries we've seen, they may be outfoxing themselves. Americans don't need to take their thumbed noses in addition to their amply demonstrated inefficiency.
 Ron Christensen Brooklyn, June 3, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WRITERS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); INSURANCE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (56%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



250 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Managers Switch Strategies and Reap Rewards

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
In mid-March, with the global stock markets plunging, Philippe Jabre, a hedge fund manager based in Geneva, started buying bombed out financial stocks in the United States, Europe and Asia. 
 A procession of sleepless nights followed as he wondered whether his bets would pan out, or send his nascent $2.5 billion fund outfit reeling.
 Now, with his main fund up 30 percent this year, rest comes a little more easily. 
 ''For a while there, it felt as if I was the only person in Europe buying Wells Fargo,'' Mr. Jabre said, as he recalled switching his main fund from a cautious 80 percent weight in bonds to his current portfolio, which was 80 percent invested in stocks.
 The sharp rebound in world markets that started in mid-March has prompted many hedge fund managers to shift gears sharply, increasing risk to avoid being left behind by a market revival that took many by surprise. While a number have been caught flat-footed, many are enjoying their best gains in a long while.
 For May, hedge fund returns globally were up 5.8 percent, the best monthly return in nine years, according to the Hennessee Group, an industry consultant.
 Here in London, the main fund of Crispin Odey, a dean of the British hedge fund community, has soared 35 percent from January through May partly because of a successful bet made on Barclays Bank this year when its shares were nearly worthless.
 Even GLG Partners, the hedge fund manager based in London that was hit hard by redemptions and poor returns in 2008, has experienced a turnaround, its funds rising 11 percent for the year, in part because of its large exposure to emerging markets, which have led the global rally.
 Hedge fund investors, while still net redeemers as recently as April according to research by Morgan Stanley, are gradually coming back. Their focus has been on funds like those of Mr. Jabre and Mr. Odey that have proved adept enough to position themselves for the market's recent powerful upswing.
 Mr. Jabre has apparently not been hurt by a fine from Britain's Financial Services Authority in 2006 for $:750,000, $1.4 million at the time, for taking excessive risks. 
 Hedge fund managers caution that the return to the market has been a tentative one, driven more by institutions and less by wealthy individuals, many of whom still bear the scars of huge losses last year.
 Moreover, any improved spirits have been tempered by a proposed European law that would impose restrictions and costs on funds operating in London.
 Still, after one of the worst six-month stretches ever experienced by the industry, the mood in the Mayfair district of London, where many fund offices are located, is decidedly more upbeat.
 Last week, the leading lights of London hedge funds came together at the annual charity dinner organized by Arpad Busson, the prominent fund of funds executive who is better known as Uma Thurman's fiance. An estimated $:15 million ($24.4 million) was raised, down from $:25 million last year, but still more than expected. Guests bid for prizes like Fiat cars decorated by the artist Damien Hirst and trips to Richard Branson's Virgin Island retreat, a reminder of the flash and glamour that prevailed during the hedge fund boom.
 As for the regulatory threat from Europe, funds in London -- which have benefited from the British government's lenient regulatory approach -- are up in arms about proposals that would force fund managers to seek regulatory approval for their use of leverage and any material change in investment strategy. They would also be required to use outside agencies to value their funds.
 Managers insist that such an intrusion would be calamitous for this industry, whose lifeblood is borrowing and secrecy, and veiled threats have already been aired about a hedge fund exodus, possibly to Switzerland.
 Hedge fund managers argue that it was the overuse of leverage by banks, not the hedge funds, that caused the financial crisis. And that view is shared by Britain's Financial Services Authority.
 Hedge funds based in the United States looking to market their own funds in London and Europe would also be affected by the European Union rules, according to Julian Korek of Kinetic Partners, an adviser to hedge funds on compliance and regulatory matters. He says that the new law would force American hedge funds that want to market funds in the European Union to set up their own companies and funds in London.
 ''This is just fortress Europe and it is anticompetitive,'' he said, adding that the law could result in the loss of thousands of jobs in London if managers moved their businesses.
 That said, it is unlikely that the British government will stand pat as Europe imposes regulations that take direct aim at this country's financial services industry, which remains the single largest source of tax revenue.
 This week, Paul Myners, the government minister responsible for the City of London, warned against regulatory overreach and said there were a number of flaws in the directive ''that needed to be rectified.''
 The government is preparing its own report on hedge fund regulation, which is expected soon and is likely to blunt the impact of the proposals coming out of Brussels.
 For Mr. Odey and Mr. Jabre, their success has derived largely from their ability to quickly recast their investment outlooks. Last year, Mr. Odey gained notoriety for having been among the most prominent short-sellers of the British banking sector. In February, with bank stocks leading the market down, he began buying Barclays, which hit a low of 50 pence before climbing to 300 last month as fears that it would be nationalized abated.
 Mr. Jabre said he reached the conclusion that the markets were pricing in a depression, not a recession. ''I just realized,'' he said, ''the world was not going to end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul Myners, left, official for the City of London, warned against regulatory overreach. Right, Arpad Busson, a funds executive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, LEON NEAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 RIGHT, TIM WHITBY/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ASIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



251 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 454 words

 BODY:
BANKS TO REPAY BAILOUT MONEY The Obama administration decided to let 10 big banks repay the loans that had sustained them through the worst of the economic crisis. But, President Obama said, ''This is not a sign that our troubles are over.'' 
 WHERE THE DEFICIT COMES FROM President Obama's ambitious policies are responsible for only a sliver of the $2.1 trillion annual deficit, with more than half attributable to initiatives originating with the administration of George W. Bush. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [A1.] 
 COLLEGE-LEVEL ECONOMICS Reed College, a free-spirited institution in Oregon, has always prided itself on admitting students based on qualifications, not their ability to pay. This year, it is sending out rejections to 100 worthy students in favor of 100 who can afford to pay. [A1.]
 THE WEST COAST EMANUEL Ariel Zev Emanuel, the head of a sprawling new Hollywood talent agency, has a pipeline to the White House through his brother Rahm, its chief of staff, and a long list of people who would like to know what makes him tick. [A1.] 
 CHRYSLER SALE IS CLEARED The United States Supreme Court declined to hear a challenge to the Chrysler bankruptcy settlement, clearing the way for the sale of Chrysler's major assets to a group led by Fiat. [B1.]
 REMAKING MICHIGAN'S ECONOMY As the shrinking auto industry leaves behind empty shells of once-bustling plants, Michigan struggles to reinvent its economy. A truck plant in Pontiac is becoming a movie studio. [B1.] 
 NEW CHAIRMAN AT G.M.General Motors named Edward E. Whitacre Jr., left, the former chief executive of AT&T, as the chairman of a recast board to oversee the New G.M. that will emerge from bankruptcy. [B4.]
 INDICTMENT IN TAX CASE A former chief executive of the accounting firm BDO Seidman was indicted on federal charges in connection with his work on questionable tax shelters sold to wealthy investors. [B1.]
 CRAIG'S LIST'S INCOME Craig's List, the online classified ad site that claims to value service over profit, is projected to bring in more than $100 million in revenue this year. [B10.]
 SMARTPHONE SALES ON THE RISE Sales of smartphone models are projected to increase 25 percent this year, driven as much by consumer sociology as technology, even though cellphone sales generally are declining. [B1.]
 RATING MAGAZINE ADS Advertisers are pressing magazine publishers to come up with a more accurate way of measuring ad impact and pricing space and the magazines are responding. [B1.]
 SENTENCE IN FAKE SUICIDE Debra Ryan, the girlfriend of Samuel Israel III, the hedge fund manager convicted of defrauding investors, was sentenced to three years of probation for helping him fake a suicide to avoid going to prison. [B2.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDICTMENTS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); PROBATION (71%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (71%); LITIGATION (71%); TAX LAW (71%); SENTENCING (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); TALENT AGENTS (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); PRINT ADVERTISING (66%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); SMARTPHONES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); SUPREME COURTS (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



252 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: For a 2012 Contender, Some Advantages in Leaving Office

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota announced last week that he would not seek re-election next year a decision widely seen in political circles as clearing the way for a presidential run in 2012 he appeared to give his verdict on one of the more intriguing strategic questions confronting many potential Republican contenders: In or out?
 In other words, if you want to run against President Obama in 2012, are you better off as a sitting governor the insider with the large megaphone but all the attendant burdens of running a state -- or as an ex-governor, weighing in on the sidelines.
 The question has taken on particular resonance given the heavy representation of present or former Republican governors considering a race for the White House in 2012. It has replaced, at least for the time being, the question that previously arose at this stage in a presidential cycle: whether it is better running as a senator or as a governor. (The verdict on that one had been pretty lopsidedly governor, until Mr. Obama became the first senator since John F. Kennedy to win the White House.) 
 ''Anyone who is running for president who is not governor has more leeway on what issues he wants to weigh in on,'' said Alex Conant, a Republican strategist and an adviser to Mr. Pawlenty. ''I think that gives you more freedom to pick and chose. But I don't know which is more valuable: being able to pick and chose like that or being in a state adding to a record of accomplishment.''
 Mr. Conant noted that one ex-governor in particular, Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, had ''written op-eds on the auto bail-out,'' positioning himself as a Republican voice in one of the big issues of the day. But it is more than just having freedom about what issues to speak about. Mr. Romney, unlike some other sitting governors Mr. Pawlenty, Sarah Palin of Alaska, Mark Sanford of South Carolina and Haley Barbour of Mississippi doesn't have to bother himself with such irritants as a pesky state legislature, a recession or the daily attention of a statehouse press corps. 
 In many ways, Mr. Pawlenty 48 years old, a relatively new face in a party on the hunt for new faces embodies the advantages and disadvantages that come with being governor. 
 On the upside, he has a platform to take action, and to draw attention, in a way that former governors who might run for president must envy. Mr. Pawlenty earned plaudits from conservatives after a face-off with the Democratic-controlled legislature that permitted him at once to block a big tax increase and impose spending cuts. His re-election last time, although by a slim margin, has allowed him to argue that he is a Republican with appeal in a state that voted by 11 points for President Obama, and it has made him a regular commentator on what the party has to do to get back in the game.
 But there are problems as well. Mr. Pawlenty's fights with the legislature and more broadly, being in charge of his state at a time when things are bleak has pulled down his approval ratings; indeed, there's a fairly decent chance he would have lost had he run again. 
 He has been maneuvered into a politically tough position because of the ongoing battle in Minnesota over the still-unresolved race for the United States Senate between Norm Coleman, the Republican who had held the seat, and his Democratic challenger, Al Franken. The winner cannot be seated until the results are certified by Mr. Pawlenty, which has been delayed because of recounts that began after Election Day and extended through a hearing before the state's highest court last week. 
 National Republicans are pressuring Mr. Pawlenty not to certify the result even if the State Supreme Court rules against Mr. Coleman; the governor is under pressure at home to end the race and permit Minnesota to get its second senator. At a recent news conference Mr. Pawlenty said he would follow the Supreme Court's directive.
 ''It's a double-edged sword,'' Mr. Pawlenty said in an interview shortly after he won the battle with the legislature on spending. ''If you do things that are positive, it can be a big advantage. If you do things negative, it goes the other way. This week was a good week.''
 Consider two other sitting governors who are considering races for the presidency: Ms. Palin and Mr. Sanford. 
 Both of them sought to balance what they see as an opportunity to build up their standing with conservatives against the demands of their state and announced, with some fanfare, that they were going to reject some of the economic stimulus money authorized by Congress. Both have found themselves hammered by opponents at home. Ms. Palin faces a restive legislature.
 In South Carolina, a state court ordered Mr. Sanford to take the money, after battles with his own legislature on this issue, including some Republicans. All of this has left him with more than a few enemies at home, the last thing governors want when they are about to introduce themselves to the nation as potential presidential candidates.
 That this discussion is taking place now reflects the fact that the early Republican field with the potential exception of Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker comes overwhelmingly from the statehouse. Two other governors who had been considering runs have taken themselves out: Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah, who was named ambassador to China by Mr. Obama, and Mitch Daniels of Indiana, who said emphatically last week that he was out of the race. A third Republican governor, Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, has strongly suggested he would wait until 2016 before running.
 Mr. Pawlenty's advisers said that one reason for his decision not to run again was the relative freedom enjoyed by ex-governors, like Mr. Romney. They can travel the country, build networks of support and, most of all, pick the topics they want to talk about. Mr. Sanford is term-limited, which means that he will be joining Mr. Romney, and Mr. Pawlenty, at the end of next year.
 ''I don't think you can argue against the upside opportunities that Romney has: He has, in effect, a campaign-in waiting,'' said Phil Musser, a Republican consultant and former executive director of the Republican Governors Association. ''He's picking the issues that he wants to discuss. He doesn't have to deal with the day-in and day-out problems with a state legislature, or the bleak budget picture and hard choices most governors face these day.'' 
 Still, he said, Mr. Pawlenty has had plenty of time to throw out big new ideas over the next 18 months in Minnesota, which can also be fodder for a broader audience, and be part of the idea factory that is needed to reinvigorate the Republican Party. And then when 2011 comes around, he will be free to give full attention to the nitty-gritty details of running for president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); MARK SANFORD (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



253 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: A Major German Retailer Files for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The German retailer Arcandor filed for bankruptcy Tuesday after the government rejected its request for a loan guarantee of 650 million euros. 
 The move represents a political gamble for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who wants to avoid stoking public anger over company bailouts without piling on even more job losses in an election year.
 The filing by Arcandor, whose Karstadt department stores anchor downtown shopping areas across Germany, also set in motion the biggest test yet for a decade-old insolvency law that was modeled on the bankruptcy reorganization system in the United States. 
 Having lost the chance for breathing space, Arcandor now faces the increasing likelihood of being sold.
 Facing a loan repayment of 710 million euros ($997 million), Arcandor was already in talks to merge with Metro, which has its own chain of department stores, Kaufhof, which often sit near Karstadt stores. Mrs. Merkel played up that possibility in a statement from Berlin.
 ''I think that the company now has a chance, particularly where jobs are concerned, and possibly in conjunction with others like Metro,'' Mrs. Merkel said.
 Still, the filing leaves Primondo and Quelle, Arcandor's two mail-order businesses, in limbo alongside Karstadt, a venerable brand with 89 stories in Germany. Its flagship store is the Kaufhaus des Westens in Berlin, the largest department store on the Continent.
 Metro, one of the world's largest retail conglomerates, says it is interested in roughly 60 of Karstadt's locations.
 By letting Arcandor slide into bankruptcy, Mrs. Merkel is betting that the right mixture of commercial momentum and a shift in the political climate against corporate bailouts will protect her from the fallout that would normally come from the insolvency of a company with 43,000 employees.
 Mrs. Merkel's government last month gave 1.5 billion euros in loan guarantees to save the European operations of General Motors, whose main component is the German unit, Opel. The episode prompted a resignation threat from her conservative economy minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, who has criticized the repeated bailouts of banks and other companies.
 The Christian Democrats, Mrs. Merkel's rightist political party, have also hemorrhaged support to the Free Democrats, a business-friendly party, over repeated state interventions. Germans will go to the polls in national elections on Sept. 27.
 A rescue fund of 115 billion euros created by the German government in March was meant to help companies that can plausibly claim that the shock of the financial crisis -- rather than management missteps -- created a cash need.
 Roughly 1,300 companies have applied, creating the impression of a long gravy train for the country's corporate elite, since only companies with sales of more than 500 million euros a year can apply.
 That group includes Porsche, the debt-laden sports car manufacturer, which wants 1.75 billion euros.
 Arcandor missed out on the money because a review committee determined it had already had financial problems linked to the long decline of department stores in Europe. (Until last year, Arcandor was run by Thomas Middelhoff, who is a director of The New York Times Company)
 A poll last week by the Forsa Institut in Berlin showed 68 percent of Germans opposed to a rescue of Arcandor, and only 23 percent for it, higher than margins even a few weeks earlier.
 ''Somewhere deep down people have a pretty shrewd sense of what is right and what is wrong,'' Manfred Gullner, Forsa's director, said. ''They don't expect that the state does everything and they don't want to pay for the mistakes.''
 Bankruptcy experts said the case of Arcandor might turn out to be the biggest test of a 10-year-old insolvency law, which took effect on Jan. 1, 1999, and aimed to smooth the way for company reorganizations in the fashion of Chapter 11 filing in the United States, thus avoiding outright liquidation.
 Bankruptcy carries a stigma because it puts the interests of creditors far ahead of any societal interest in keeping the company afloat.
 ''In the United States, bankruptcy was always about protecting the debtors, which was logical enough since creditors often sat in London,'' said Detlef Specovius, an insolvency specialist at the law firm Schultze & Braun.
 The new law tweaked that balance in favor of debtors, but it is still used in only 2 or 3 percent of bankruptcy cases, experts said. Experts said Arcandor was far larger than most companies that had used the law.
 But the mere possibility that Arcandor could emerge from bankruptcy, even if under a different name, created an opening for Mrs. Merkel to suggest that the company should find a deal with its creditors first.
 ''I see a political burden-relieving effect of the insolvency law in Germany,'' said Christoph Paulus, dean of the law faculty at the Humboldt University of Berlin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Arcandor's chief, Karl-Gerhard Eick, right, and Klaus Hubert Goerg, an insolvency official.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLEMENS BILAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Employees of Arcandor's Karstadt department stores protest possible job losses in Potsdam.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL URBAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EURO (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%)

COMPANY: METRO AG (92%); ARCANDOR AG (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: MEO (FRA) (92%); ARO (FRA) (91%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



254 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Slighted, Rich Patron Led Albany Revolt

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
In early spring, Tom Golisano went to Albany from his home in Rochester to meet with Malcolm A. Smith, then the Senate majority leader. 
 Mr. Golisano, a billionaire business executive, had spent heavily to help Mr. Smith and other Democrats win control of the Senate in the November election, and was angry to hear they were now planning to raise taxes on the wealthy. He expected an audience befitting a major financial patron. 
 Instead, he said, Mr. Smith played with his BlackBerry and seemed to barely listen. 
 ''I said, 'I'm talking to the wall here,' '' Mr. Golisano recalled in an interview on Tuesday. 
 That meeting led to the dramatic collapse Monday of the Democrats' grip on the Senate majority as a frustrated Mr. Golisano secretly planned with Republicans to persuade two Democrats to join them in ousting Mr. Smith.
 The revolt has thrown Albany into an almost surreal scene of confusion; on Tuesday, both Mr. Smith and the Republican Senate leader, Dean G. Skelos, were claiming to be the majority leader. Democrats locked the doors of the Senate chamber, preventing Republicans from gathering there, and refused to turn over the keys, prompting Republicans to threaten to hold a legislative session in the park outside.
 Gov. David A. Paterson vowed not to leave the state during the crisis and said he still considered Mr. Smith to be the majority leader. 
 Mr. Golisano, asked by reporters about the legal troubles of Pedro Espada Jr. and Hiram Monserrate, the two Democrats who had joined with the Republicans to oust Mr. Smith, said: ''Don't talk to me about ethical background in Albany,'' adding, ''We have a governor who stood on a podium on national television and said he had extramarital affairs and used cocaine.'' 
 Mr. Espada said the Republicans had promised him and Mr. Monserrate that the Senate would be run in a bipartisan way, and predicted that other Democrats would eventually join the power-sharing coalition.
 ''This cannot become a circus,'' said Mr. Espada, faced with the prospect of starting his career as Senate president being locked out of the Senate chamber. ''We won't force our way into any locked chambers. This is childlike, taking home all the marbles.''
 ''If we're blocked from the room, we'll do it outside in the park if it's a nice day,'' he added.
 Along with Mr. Golisano, a key figure who helped pull off the plan to overthrow Mr. Smith was Steve Pigeon, who is not only Mr. Golisano's top political adviser but also a longtime friend of Mr. Espada's.
 After Mr. Golisano's fruitless meeting with Mr. Smith in March, Mr. Pigeon and Mr. Golisano returned to Albany to meet with Mr. Smith's top aide, Angelo J. Aponte, the secretary of the Senate. Mr. Golisano insisted that there had to be a way to balance the state budget without raising taxes, and at one point snatched a pad from one of Mr. Aponte's aides and began scrawling back-of-the-envelope calculations.
 One of Mr. Golisano's aides asked whether the state could issue billions of dollars worth of bonds. Mr. Aponte said it was unlikely the bonds would find buyers in the economic slump. (Mr. Pigeon disputed that account. ''We were there to hear their presentation and they didn't seem to have any good answers,'' he said.) 
 Mr. Golisano gave up on the Democrats and Mr. Pigeon moved quickly to set up a meeting with three top Senate Republicans. Secrecy was imperative, so they decided to meet at a small Albany rock club, Red Square, an unlikely locale for lawmakers. 
 ''You wouldn't find anybody there that we knew,'' recalled Senator George D. Maziarz, a Republican from western New York who attended. Within days, the trio -- Mr. Maziarz, Mr. Skelos and Senator Tom Libous of Binghamton, went to Rochester to meet with Mr. Golisano. The meeting was a chance for Mr. Skelos to meet Mr. Golisano for the first time. 
 Mr. Pigeon soon set to wooing Mr. Espada, a Bronx Democrat who had once caucused with the Republicans. Mr. Pigeon and Mr. Espada had a long relationship, going back to Mr. Pigeon's days as a counsel to the Senate Democrats. Mr. Espada drafted Mr. Monserrate, one of his close friends in the Senate, to join him in his defection. 
 Mr. Espada has said he joined the effort because he wanted to change how Albany does business. Indeed, shortly after taking power on Monday, Republicans enacted new rules for the Senate, including one imposing six-year term limits for the Senate's leaders and another equalizing distribution of the $85 million the Senate allocates annually for legislative earmarks. 
 But Mr. Espada was said to have grown frustrated about power and money. 
 Mr. Espada has been fined more than $60,000 for ignoring state law requiring disclosure of campaign contributions. A nonprofit organization that he ran for decades, Soundview HealthCare Network, is being investigated by the attorney general on suspicion of having misappropriated funds. And the Bronx district attorney is investigating whether he lives in the Bronx district he represents. 
 After he agreed earlier this year to back Mr. Smith, Mr. Espada requested perks that he believed should accompany his title as vice president of the Senate for urban policy. He asked for the use of the Capitol office adjoining his, close to $100,000 for rent for his district office -- more than twice the amount allotted to other senators from New York City -- and a dozen extra staff members. Mr. Aponte denied the requests.
 Mr. Espada also clashed with Mr. Smith over housing legislation that the Democrats had promised tenant advocates they would pass. For months, Mr. Espada, the chairman of the Housing Committee, had delayed introducing the legislation. Landlords increasingly viewed him as one of their only defenders among the Democrats.
 Mr. Espada sought more than $2 million in earmarks this year for two groups with links to Soundview.
 State records indicate that the groups were created just days before Mr. Espada put in the requests, which Senate Democrats rejected in early April, saying they could not confirm that the groups were legitimate nonprofit organizations.
 For example, Mr. Espada requested $1.3 million in grants for the Bronx Human Services Council Inc., which registered with the state on March 26. The council's headquarters are at the same Bronx address as a clinic that is part of Soundview. Its chairman is one of Mr. Espada's Senate staff members.
 In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Espada described the concerns raised by Senate Democrats as ''character assassination'' and said the groups were ''new organizations that were formed because these are volunteers, lawyers and doctors, that want to help their communities.''
 In the weeks leading up to Monday's revolt, Mr. Espada and the Republicans he planned with kept their plans remarkably quiet, especially for leak-prone Albany.
 The senators and Mr. Pigeon met repeatedly at Mr. Espada's house in Albany -- located across from the governor's mansion -- and ordered pizza so often that some of the senators started to complain. 
 Among his fellow Democrats, Mr. Espada said, only Mr. Monserrate knew of the discussions.
 Mr. Pigeon kept Mr. Golisano, who recently moved his primary residence to Florida, apprised of the progress, and Mr. Pigeon told him last Thursday the deal ''was real solid,'' Mr. Golisano said. 
 Even Roger Stone, the omnipresent Republican operative with a tattoo of Richard Nixon's head on his back, was rumored to have played a role. Mr. Pigeon at first said Mr. Stone was not involved, but when pressed, he acknowledged that Mr. Stone, who did not return a call for comment, had known about the coup in advance. 
 Mr. Golisano later watched the proceedings unfold from Mr. Espada's Senate office, then moved to the Senate balcony after Mr. Libous called for a vote to install new Senate leaders and Democrats briefly turned off the lights in the chamber. The coalition the group had hoped for -- Mr. Espada, Mr. Monserrate and 30 Republicans -- held together, creating a new majority. 
 That night around 9, Mr. Espada, Mr. Monserrate and members of their staffs adjourned to Salsa Latina, a restaurant in Albany, to wind down. Mr. Skelos briefly stopped by to congratulate them. They quietly recounted the day, and began planning for what would happen next.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Senator Pedro Espada Jr., one of two Democrats who backed the Republican leadership, at a news conference in Albany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) CHART: Shifting Sands in Albany: Those at the center of the dramatic power shift in the State Senate include some familiar faces and some who emerged from relative obscurity.: Hiram Monserrate INSURGENT DEMOCRAT The former city councilman was elected to the Senate last fall. He has been indicted on charges that he stabbed his companion with a broken glass. He is a former Marine and a 12-year veteran of the New York City Police Department, from which he retired with a psychological disability. Pedro Espada Jr. INSURGENT DEMOCRAT Assumed the job of Senate president, putting him in line to succeed Gov. David A. Paterson if the governor is incapacitated. The Bronx senator has been fined for flouting state laws on political contribution disclosure. A nonprofit organization he ran is being investigated. Malcolm A. Smith DEPOSED SENATE LEADER The senator from Queens was the first African-American to hold the job of majority leader and Senate president, which he assumed in January after Democrats arrived in Albany with their first Senate majority in 43 years. The coup appeared to take him by surprise. Dean G. Skelos NEW SENATE LEADER Deposed as majority leader when the Democrats took control of the Senate last November, Mr. Skelos, the longtime understudy to the former Senate leader, Joseph L. Bruno, moved immediately to renew control of the body, and promised to push for property tax rebates. David A. Paterson GOVERNOR The governor initially vowed to stop the Senate coup d'etat, but then acknowledged he could do nothing about it. On Tuesday he vowed to stay out of the dispute. Tom Golisano ROCHESTER BILLIONAIRE The self-styled advocate for good government backed reform-minded candidates in 2008, but was disappointed that Demorats hadn't acted more boldly. Some parts of his agenda such as as more-even distribution of perks were embraced by Mr. Skelos. Carl Kruger DISSAFFECTED DEMOCRAT The Brooklyn senator, once the leader of a dissident caucus of four Democrats, had not openly broken with his party, although he has close ties to Republicans. He maintained a wait-and-see attitude on the issue of whether he would sign up with the new bipartisan majority. Ruben Diaz Sr. DISAFFECTED DEMOCRAT The senator from the Bronx has also quarreled with his party leadership, saying he was concerned that Democrats were not offering Latinos influential roles. A Pentecostal minister, he is one of the Senate's most conservative members on social issues. (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); COCAINE (50%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



255 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Pay Pals

 BODY:
The payday-loan industry sells its services to hard-up people in poor neighborhoods at steep prices, then fends off charges of profiteering with the cloak of capitalist virtue. It says it's meeting a need, filling a niche. This is how loan sharks and bookies justify themselves, too, although in fairness what payday lenders do is not beyond the pale legally, just morally. 
 It's a world of triple-digit annual interest rates, milking people's desperation for a few hundred dollars until payday. Its customers all too often borrow money they can't repay, falling into a trap of fees and bounced checks, taking new loans to pay off old loans, accumulating fees but never paying off principal. You'd never go near these lenders unless you really thought you had to.
 Or unless you were Senator Christopher Dodd, a Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the banking committee and self-styled champion of consumers' interests. He somehow found himself last month having dinner at a sleek bistro in Washington with members of the Online Lenders Alliance, an industry group for payday lenders that troll for customers on the Web. 
 It was the first night of the alliance's ''Spring Conference & Blitz 2009,'' and the question is about whether the group arranged the dinner for Mr. Dodd. He is running for re-election and has already raised more than $44,000 for his campaign from pawnshop owners and other high-interest lenders, according to The Los Angeles Times. The dinner on the alliance's agenda was a ''special event'' featuring Mr. Dodd and a ''special guest,'' Senator Tim Johnson of South Dakota. 
 But when Arthur Delaney of The Huffington Post went there, he was told it wasn't an alliance event, although some members would be there. Aides to Mr. Dodd and Mr. Johnson told us the same thing: Forget what it looked like, this was a private fund-raiser by Mr. Johnson for his friend Mr. Dodd, not payday lenders wooing a senator whose committee was considering a bill that could seriously cramp their business.
 That bill, sponsored by Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois, caps interest rates on consumer loans at 36 percent. That's the reasonable limit that Congress placed on loans to members of the armed forces.
 It should apply to all American families. Mr. Dodd, who was recently praised after Congress passed a bill limiting abuses by credit-card companies, should follow the same crusading impulse to go after the egregious exploitation of payday loans. He should avoid even the slightest hint that he is cozying up to it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (65%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (52%); RICHARD DURBIN (52%); TIM JOHNSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



256 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: 10 Large Banks Allowed to Exit U.S. Aid Program

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Obama administration marked with little fanfare a major milestone in its bank rescue effort -- its decision on Tuesday to let 10 big banks repay federal aid that had sustained them through the worst of the crisis -- as policy makers and industry executives focused on the challenges still before them. 
 ''This is not a sign that our troubles are over,'' President Obama said. ''Far from it.''
 While the announcement had been expected for weeks, the official word put the administration's imprimatur on a corps of big banks considered healthy enough to extricate themselves from Washington's grip. 
 The bank holding companies, among them American Express, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, plan to return a combined $68.3 billion. That represents more than a quarter of the federal bailout money that the nation's banks have received since last October, when many feared that failures might cascade through the industry. 
 But the decision to allow the banks to exit the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, also ushered in a new, and potentially risky, phase of the banking crisis. Letting the lenders out now -- earlier than many had envisioned, and without the industry reforms some consider necessary to prevent future crises -- raises many sobering questions for policy makers, bankers and taxpayers. 
 The program was aimed at purchasing assets and equity from banks to strengthen them and encourage them to expand lending during a tightening credit squeeze. But after banks return the TARP money, the administration will forfeit much of its leverage over them. With that loss goes a rare opportunity to overhaul the industry. The administration's ability to push institutions to purge themselves quickly of bad assets and do more to help hard-pressed homeowners will be diminished. 
 Of even deeper concern is the running trouble inside the banking industry. Despite tentative signs of revival, many banks remain fragile. Four of the nation's five largest lenders, including Citigroup and Bank of America, were not allowed to return their bailout funds. 
 Some analysts worry that financial institutions that repay bailout money now may turn to Washington again if the economy worsens and losses overwhelm banks. One of the most vexing problems of the credit crisis -- how to rid banks of their troubled mortgage investments -- remains unresolved. 
 The banks are eager to escape TARP and the restrictions that come with it, particularly the limits on how much they can pay their 25 most highly compensated workers. (Even so, the Obama administration plans to propose guidelines on executive compensation for the broader industry as early as Wednesday.) 
 Yet even banks that return taxpayers' money will remain dependent on other forms of government aid. Among them are enhanced deposit insurance, incentive payments to modify home mortgages and federal guarantees on bonds that banks sell to raise capital. 
 ''They may need the government's money to get through this storm,'' Christopher Whalen, a managing partner at Institutional Risk Analytics, said of the banks. ''If the banks have to come back and ask for more money in a few months, I don't think the response from Washington will be too kind.''
 Taxpayers -- many of whom probably never imagined that banks would return their bailout money so soon, if ever --stand to make several billion dollars from their investment in the 10 banks. So far, the Treasury has collected about $1.8 billion in interest payments. It also might reap as much as $4.6 billion as the banks seek to expunge other government investments, known as warrants. 
 The first round of repayments will free up billions of dollars that the administration can then funnel to other troubled banks and companies without having to return to Congress for more money. 
 But homeowners and consumers are unlikely to benefit if banks repay their TARP funds en masse. Banks are giving back money that might otherwise be used to make loans. 
 The announcement on Tuesday underscored the stark dividing line across the banking industry. On one side are big banks now considered healthy enough to forgo their TARP money. On the other side are those considered too weak to go without it. Still, some of those weaker banks may be allowed to repay the money soon.
 Mr. Obama, in remarks on Tuesday in the East Room of the White House, stopped short of declaring the crisis over. And the president, who has been harshly critical of multimillion-dollar bonuses for Wall Street executives, had a message for the banks that were returning the money.
 ''I also want to say: the return of these funds does not provide forgiveness for past excesses or permission for future misdeeds,'' he said.
 The Treasury did not name the banks, but the institutions quickly acknowledged the decision in a barrage of press releases on Tuesday morning. Morgan Stanley was among the first out with the news. American Express, Bank of New York Mellon, the BB& T Corporation, Capital One Financial, JP Morgan Chase, Northern Trust, the State Street Corporation and U.S. Bancorp soon followed. Goldman Sachs, which had pressed hard to repay the money, waited nearly two hours before issuing its release. 
 None of the banks' executives crowed publicly, but some of their employees celebrated Tuesday night. At an outdoor cafe on Stone Street, near Goldman's headquarters in Lower Manhattan, Goldman employees toasted their freedom.
 ''This one's on me,'' one called out from his table.
 ''Yeah, as long as it's not on the government,'' a colleague replied.
 Nearby, at Ulysses pub, two Bank of New York Mellon employees nursed beers and predicted their lives -- and pay -- would improve, even if the broader economy did not. 
 Rick Waddell, the chief executive of Northern Trust, acknowledged that many banks were still under pressure. ''The environment remains challenging,'' Mr. Waddell said in a memorandum. But he said it was in the best interest of ''shareholders clients, partners and taxpayers to return this capital.''
 Even Henry M. Paulson Jr., who, as Treasury secretary, summoned banking executives to Washington last fall to press the TARP money on them, said in a statement on Tuesday that he did not see a quick end to the industry's problems. ''The recovery of our financial system is under way, but the road ahead is not short,'' Mr. Paulson said. 
 Still, some of his former staff members planned to celebrate. Before leaving the Treasury in January, the staff members joked that they would hold a reunion when the first dollar of the big banks' TARP money was repaid. That day will most likely come next week, when the actual payments are expected to be made. 
 ''I guess we have to organize something -- a quick run to the local bar for a drink,'' said Michele Davis, the former assistant Treasury secretary for public affairs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama said that even though some banks were leaving the federal bailout program, the industry was still troubled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3)
Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase. The bank is repaying the government billions in bailout money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FEIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A3) CHARTS: $68.3 BILLION TARP MONEY TO BE REPAID: The Treasury approved 10 banks to repay $68 billion they had received under the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- more than a quarter of all the money the government had given to banks. (pg.A1)
BENEFITS FOR BANKS AND TAXPAYERS ALIKE: The money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program that the 10 approved banks can now repay was the most visible form of government support. (Sources: Government reports
Dealogic
 Dr. Linus Wilson, Assistant Prof. of Finance, Univ. of Louisiana at Lafayette) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); BAILOUT BONUSES (74%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); THE BANK HOLDINGS INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JAMES DIMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



257 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Obama Aims to Revive 'Pay as You Go'

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
During the first four months of his administration, President Obama has committed roughly $1 trillion in federal spending: a $787 billion economic recovery package, and $350 billion in money to bail out the nation's banks. The budget deficit for this year is now projected at $1.8 trillion.
 So on Tuesday, in the face of considerable skepticism from Republicans, the president was talking about saving money, not spending it. 
 Mr. Obama announced he was sending legislation to Congress to restore the 1990s-era ''pay as you go'' law, known as Paygo. The law, in effect from 1990 to 2002, required that tax cuts or new entitlement spending -- like the health care overhaul that Mr. Obama hopes will be a signature domestic achievement -- be paid for through budget cuts or tax increases. 
 The restriction would not apply to so-called ''discretionary'' spending that finances most government programs aside from Medicare and Social Security.
 ''The 'pay as you go' principle is very simple,'' Mr. Obama told a group of Congressional Democrats in the East Room of the White House. ''Congress can only spend a dollar if it saves a dollar elsewhere.''
 But critics of Paygo say it is not simple at all, because Congress has a long history of waiving its requirements. And White House officials conceded Mr. Obama's proposal would not put a dent in the federal deficit. It would only keep it from getting bigger.
 ''Pay as you go embodies the common-sense principle that you shouldn't dig the hole any deeper,'' Peter Orszag, Mr. Obama's budget director, told reporters Tuesday. 
 Mr. Obama has been under intense pressure from moderate and conservative House Democrats to show more fiscal restraint, and an administration official said Tuesday that the lawmakers had been urging him to throw his weight behind reviving the law. Mr. Obama said Tuesday that Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, supported the measure; Ms. Pelosi was at the lectern with him in the East Room.
 But the announcement -- just one day after Mr. Obama lauded the billions of dollars his administration was spending to save or create what the White House estimated as 600,000 new jobs this summer -- quickly turned into Round 2 of an escalating war between the White House and Republicans over Mr. Obama's claims of fiscal responsibility.
 ''President Obama and Congressional Democrats telling Americans they are committed to budget discipline is like Charles Ponzi telling people to trust him with their money,'' the Republican National Committee said in a statement to reporters.
 Federal spending and the deficit are major issues for Mr. Obama as health care legislation moves through Congress. The president has long said he expected his health care plan to be ''deficit neutral.'' Mr. Orszag and other Democrats took pains on Tuesday to note that was not the case when Mr. Obama's immediate predecessor, President George W. Bush, signed legislation expanding Medicare to include prescription drug coverage for the elderly. 
 ''That was the largest increase in mandatory entitlement spending since Lyndon Johnson, and they didn't pay for a nickel of it,'' said Thomas S. Kahn, the Democratic staff director for the House Budget Committee, calling Mr. Obama's proposal ''an important statement that Democrats are serious about fiscal responsibility.''
 Although Mr. Obama's allies are now using the prescription drug legislation to make the case that Republicans were responsible for rising deficits, the bill had substantial support from Democrats in Congress.
 Critics also said Democrats had a poor track record with Paygo. The old version of the law required Congress to make across-the-board cuts in entitlement spending at the end of any year in which the Congressional Budget Office found that the law's requirements had not been met. (Under Mr. Obama's plan, legislation would have to be paid for over a 10-year period, not year by year.) 
 Brian M. Riedl, a budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation, said lawmakers had typically responded to the legislation's requirements by waiving them.
 ''Paygo is a gimmick,'' Mr. Riedl said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Representative Steny H. Hoyer on Tuesday in the White House.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); STENY HOYER (56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



258 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Imposes Sanctions on N. Korea

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
South Korea imposed its first financial sanctions on North Korean companies, officials said Tuesday, taking a symbolic action that could anger the Communist regime while bolstering a joint front with the United States as the allies seek to punish the North for its recent nuclear test.
 North Korea continued its harsh rhetoric on Tuesday when the government-run newspaper, Minju Joson, warned that the regime can use its nuclear program not only for defense but also as ''a merciless offensive means.'' 
 The escalating tensions began hurting investor sentiments. On Tuesday, a South Korean fur-coat maker became the first company to announce it was withdrawing from the Kaesong joint industrial complex in North Korea, a sign that deteriorating inter-Korean relations and tensions over the North's recent nuclear test were jeopardizing the complex, once hailed as a model of future economic cooperation between the two Koreas. 
 The financial sanctions against three North Korean firms, which became effective on June 1, were disclosed on Tuesday, a day after North Korea sentenced two American journalists to 12 years of hard labor for illegal entry and unspecified ''hostile acts.'' 
 The families of the journalists, Laura Ling and Yuna Lee, urged North Korea to grant them clemency.
 ''We remain hopeful that the governments of the United States and North Korea can come to an agreement that will result in the release,'' the families said in a statement.
 American officials said that the harsh sentences were likely to be used as a negotiating ploy by the North as it tries to avoid new sanctions being worked out at the United Nations Security Council in response to the nuclear test two weeks ago. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton stressed that the reporters' case and Washington's efforts to punish North Korea for its nuclear test are ''entirely separate matters.''
 Still, American officials appeared to be weighing whether to send a special envoy in a high-profile effort to seek the release of the two journalists. The two most likely candidates are former Vice President Al Gore, whose Current TV channel employs the two journalists, and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who has visited North Korea several times and helped negotiate the release of two Americans in the 1990s. 
 Asked Monday if Washington will send an envoy, Mrs. Clinton said her government is ''pursuing every possible approach'' to win their release. 
 On Tuesday, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance in Seoul said that it has banned trading with three North Korean firms -- Korea Mining Development Trading Corporation, Tanchon Commercial Bank, and Korea Ryongbong General Corporation -- and will freeze their assets. But officials said that these firms have no trading with South Korea or assets in the South. 
 The Security Council had earlier targeted those three North Korean entities when it reaffirmed financial restrictions against the North after its rocket launch on April 5. 
 Until now, while voicing support for Security Council decisions, South Korea had avoided implementing such symbolic but politically sensitive sanctions for fear they would anger Pyongyang. That stance began shifting in May when South Korea announced it could search North Korean ships suspected of carrying weapons of mass destruction in its territorial waters as part of an American-led global arms embargo.
 Ms. Ling, 32, and Ms. Lee, 36, were arrested March 17 on the China-North Korea border. 
 ''There is a serious doubt that these journalists had a fair trial because the legal proceedings have not been transparent,'' said Kay Seok, a Seoul-based researcher for Human Rights Watch. ''It's not clear whether the North Korean government has honored the defendants' right to choose their own lawyers, and whether they had the benefit of courtroom translators.''
 Analysts in Seoul doubted that the journalists would spend time at one of the North's notorious labor camps, where North Korean defectors said malnutrition and beatings were rampant. Rather, they said the journalists could be held at a ''sanitized'' prison that Pyongyang allowed international human rights officials to visit in the mid-1990s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); SENTENCING (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); AL GORE (57%); BILL RICHARDSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009



259 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: A Cheap Date, With Child Care by Ikea

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
IKEA'S inexpensive, contemporary furniture has attracted frugal shoppers for years, but a different kind of bargain is luring deal hunters to the Swedish retailer as the economy struggles to recover. And this offer doesn't even require you to use an Allen wrench. 
 Over-stretched, money-conscious parents are using the store's supervised play area as their personal baby-sitting service. 
 James Rotino, a single father, has become a regular at the store in Brooklyn. He takes his 5-year-old son, Vincent, to Ikea once a week after preschool, heading straight for the free Smaland play center, where children who meet the height requirement (roughly 36 inches to 50 inches, depending on the store) can romp around in a pit full of plastic balls, watch videos, read books, play with puppets -- sold at Ikea of course -- or work on craft projects under the supervision of Ikea employees for up to an hour and a half. 
 While Vincent plays at Smaland -- commonly referred to as the ball room -- Mr. Rotino reads the paper or takes a walk among the aisles, but he rarely buys any of Ikea's home furnishings. ''We get hot dogs or something and that's it,'' he said. The free baby-sitting, he added, ''gives me a little bit of a break and it makes my kid happy.'' 
 The idea behind Smaland, of course, is to distract the children for long enough to let parents shop, possibly spending more than they would if their children were jumping on the display beds or whining about being bored. But recently, stores say, more parents like Mr. Rotino have begun to frequent Ikea for the playtime itself, depositing their children at Smaland and plopping into a display couch for an hour of peace and quiet, and then leaving without ever buying a thing. 
 Ikea estimates that Smaland attendance has jumped roughly 20 percent so far this year in its stores in major American cities. The company has 37 stores in the United States and 297 worldwide.
 ''Lately, we've seen an increase in a lot of new parents,'' said Yumiko Whitaker, public relations manager for Ikea's Orange County stores in California, where some have been spotted dropping children off at Smaland and then heading to Ikea's cafe with their laptops for its free wireless. ''They're getting out of the house and we're providing an environment that gives them a break.'' Moms or dads who time it right visit on days that Ikea is offering one of its free breakfast promotions and score bacon and eggs for the family, too.
 ''We certainly hope they'll purchase some Ikea products,'' said Mona Astra Liss, the director of public relations for Ikea in the United States. ''But if they don't, we still feel satisfied we introduced them to Ikea.'' 
 This low-pressure retail strategy, combined with Ikea's reputation for selling low-priced furniture, seems to be working. While many of the nation's home furnishing retailers have been suffering from sales declines, and some, like Costco's two Home stores, are closing, Ikea has managed to eke out some profits. Sales for the private Ikea Group, which is notoriously tight-lipped about financials, were up 5 percent in January, according to a February article in Retail Week, a trade publication in Britain. ''At a time when families are cutting back on vacations and restaurant visits, an outing to Ikea suddenly sounds quite attractive -- especially when you throw in free baby-sitting and cheap food,'' said Natalie Berg, a senior retail analyst at Planet Retail, a London-based consulting group.
 Kristy and Matt Hall of Jersey City make regular visits to the Ikea stores in Elizabeth and Paramus, N.J., with their 2-year-old son, Murphy. ''It's a very creative way to get a night out and see if you can capture a little social life,'' said Ms. Hall, who writes a travel blog called Two and a Half Travelers, where she has recommended the store as a rest-stop for families on road trips. ''We've been doing it since he was born.''
 Because Murphy is too small for the ball room, the evening usually begins with a stroll through the aisles, using one of the strollers provided by Ikea, then a visit to the children's section so Murphy can play with the toys, and eventually a stop at the cafe for Swedish meatballs or ice cream. For the adults, the goal is to get a table in the part of the cafe adjacent to a small play area where Murphy can entertain himself while they keep an eye on him and catch up on the day's events. 
 Every so often, an announcement is made over the store's speaker system. ''They say so and so, come into the ball room to pick up your child,'' Ms. Hall said. ''You can only imagine what the parent is doing.'' When that happens, she said, ''My husband and I look at each other and say, 'I can't wait till he can go into the ball room!' ''
 Ikea says parents are not allowed to leave the store after dropping off their children at Smaland. At the Ikea in Round Rock, Tex., parents receive a beeper and are paged when their child's time in the play area is up. If they don't respond to the page, an announcement is made over the public address system. ''If it takes too long we call them on their cellphone,'' said Danielle Komisar, who oversees Smaland at the Round Rock store. ''Sometimes they're simply stuck in the marketplace.''
 The baby-sitting is so popular that parents sometimes have to wait for a slot in Smaland, where capacity ranges from 20 to 60 children, depending on the store. At the store in Round Rock, ''People have been really patient,'' Ms. Komisar said. ''They stand in line and wait.'' On so-called Seize the Day events, when Ikea offers free breakfast and other special promotions, ''we might have 20 kids waiting,'' she said. 
 The bustling Smaland at the Brooklyn Ikea store, which can hold up to 60 children and which has an employee-to-child ratio of roughly 1 to 12, gets its share of regulars as well as customers who try to bend the rules. Samantha Mitchell, an employee there, said no one had ever tried to bribe her to get special treatment, ''but there are people who try to get us to take their pets in.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FREE TIME: James Rotino of Brooklyn looks on as his son, Vincent, 5, talks with Samantha Mitchell, left, an employee in the free supervised play space at Ikea in Red Hook, Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D3)
 PLAY, DATE: Matt and Kristy Hall, left, of Jersey City take advantage of a chance to eat dinner together and talk while their son, Murphy, 2, tests out the toys at a play area at Ikea in Elizabeth, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%)

COMPANY: INGKA HOLDING BV (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (95%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



260 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: Make Me Greener, Please

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
GEORGE BRYSON and Alina Sanchez flunked the test on water consumption. 
 They had hired a consultant to tell them how they could do better at home in helping the environment, and although they did very well on energy use, water was another matter. 
 ''I do a lot of thinking in the shower,'' Ms. Sanchez offered as a possible explanation. (The culprit turned out to be the sprinklers.)
 Environmental savings can be elusive, and the benefits and costs confusing. To help households wade through the information, consultants armed with stepladders and gadgets are selling advice on energy efficiency, indoor air quality and even methods for creating an eco-conscious wardrobe. 
 The field of personal and home eco-consultants is relatively new. GenGreen, a Colorado company that offers a national directory of businesses marketing themselves as green at gengreenlife.com, says it has just over 3,000 listings under the umbrella term environmental consultants, up from 657 when the database was started in 2007. They include energy auditors, health and wellness experts, interior designers and ''eco-brokers,'' real estate agents who specialize in green homes. While real estate agents can get training and certification as ''eco'' or ''green'' by trade organizations, and states like New York run energy audit programs with accreditation rules, there are no industry standards for most eco-consultants, who can range from environmental engineers to the self-taught. 
 Dr. Urvashi Rangan, the director of greenerchoices.org, a Consumers Union Web site that gives information on environmentally friendly products and labels, said that homeowners should exercise caution, and that if they are thinking of hiring such a consultant they should do some research first and decide which areas they want to focus on before deciding if they want to pay for visits that can cost hundreds of dollars.
 Mr. Bryson and Ms. Sanchez, business owners in their 40s who own a three-bedroom house in Los Angeles and who recycle and compost, said they hired Jason Pelletier, a co-founder of Low Impact Living of Los Angeles, to identify what they could do to be more environmentally sound. His three-year-old company offers eco-consulting and runs a green resource Web site that is supported by payments for advertising and for listings. 
 They were considering insulating their garage -- where she has set up her office and which he wants to also use as a music studio -- and wondered about the best environmental options. 
 Compared with doing their own research on the Internet, they said, a consultation offered the advantage of analyzing their needs in a short time.
 ''This is specific to us,'' Mr. Bryson said. ''It's a great check-up, and it gives you a baseline for improving things going forward.'' 
 Two and a half hours and $200 later, after an inspection of the 1,446-square-foot home they share with their two children (in addition to the 3,000-square-foot backyard and the garage), Mr. Pelletier gave them suggestions such as switching to low-flow shower heads and to compact fluorescent light bulbs, and later followed up with a detailed report that compared the couple's consumption with the average for their region. He advised them to cut the use of sprinklers by 30 to 40 percent, insulate the attic and replace the old water heater. 
 In addition, Mr. Pelletier said the couple would save $1,200 a year in gas and cut their car-related emissions by 50 percent if they sold their cars -- his, a 1997 Saab, and hers, a 1998 Volvo -- and bought hybrids instead. Mr. Bryson and Ms. Sanchez said they were holding out for electric cars some day. In spread-out Los Angeles, their daughter's school is a 20-mile round trip, they said, and they are often caught in traffic. 
 ''I sit on the freeway and I see all these cars,'' she said. ''I feel we don't have an option,'' for avoiding gas. 
 Frank Ackerman, an economist with the Stockholm Environment Institute, a research organization affiliated with Tufts University, said that people fret over their choices -- install solar panels or unplug electronics? -- but that not all efforts are equally beneficial for the environment.
 There is no ''1-2-3 order'' of priorities for every person, because much depends on where and how people live, said Dr. Ackerman, who is co-writing a consumers' guide to the actions that most benefit the environment with the Union of Concerned Scientists. But about a third of the country's carbon dioxide emissions come from generating electricity and another third from transportation, most of it from the gasoline powering cars, the Environmental Protection Agency says. 
 So among his top consumer choices: living in smaller spaces to cut the use of electricity, reducing air and auto travel to diminish transportation-related carbon emissions and eating less beef, because its production is highly energy-intensive. 
 David J. C. MacKay, a physics professor at the University of Cambridge and author of the new book, ''Sustainable Energy -- Without the Hot Air'' (UIT Cambridge, 2009), said gestures like unplugging the cellphone charger when not in use should be seen for what they are -- tiny.
 ''It's like bailing the Titanic with a teaspoon,'' Professor MacKay said. ''The energy saved by unplugging the cellphone charger for one day is the same energy used when you drive your car for one second.'' Topping his list: turning down the thermostat in the winter, flying less and buying less ''stuff,'' which he noted comes embedded with the energy it takes to make it and transport it.
 Eco-consultants sometimes make it seem as if every possible change can be and should be adopted. That leaves some of their customers resistant to some of the recommendations. 
 Sal Scamardo, a 46-year-old independent film producer in New York, had hired a consultant even though he began with many environmental advantages -- only 650 square feet of living space to heat or cool, no lawn or daily automobile use. But he wanted to reduce his electric usage and improve indoor air quality, he said, adding, ''I liked the idea of someone coming in and analyzing your lifestyle and taking a look under the covers.'' 
 In April, he guided Stephanie Gregerman of Green Irene, a company with about 300 consultants in 45 states who get online training and offer $99 ''green-home makeovers'' (along with the company's products), around his one-bedroom condo. 
 After a 90-minute inspection of the apartment, Ms. Gregerman discovered several green-home no-no's: nine incandescent light bulbs, a cabinet full of chemical-laden cleaning products and seven pieces of electronic equipment sucking power while not in use. 
 ''Don't take my lava lamp,'' Mr. Scamardo pleaded, only half-joking.
 Ms. Gregerman, who has had a long-term interest in environmental issues and formerly worked in marketing for a record label, gave him a long list of recommendations: use compact fluorescent bulbs, get a power strip with an on-off button, pay extra for wind power from the local utility and set a five-minute egg timer while taking a shower. 
 The lava lamp was spared, but Ms. Gregerman also suggested using cloth instead of paper towels, giving up plastic bags and plastic water containers, replacing $40 worth of cleaning products with nontoxic alternatives and composting food scraps. 
 Mr. Scamardo did not buy any products during the visit, and he rejected composting, which would entail saving leftovers until they could be dropped off at the nearest composting collection site. 
 ''I don't see that working with my lifestyle,'' he said. He has, however, appliedmost of the energy-saving recommendations, including no longer shaving in the shower to try to keep his showers under five minutes.
 ''If you're serious about, it is worth it,'' he said of the consultation. ''It was customized to my way of living and I could ask questions.'' 
 Ms. Gregerman was understanding about his rejection of composting, saying later that only clients in their 20s seem open to the idea. ''Typically most people are not going to compost,'' she said. ''It's either a space issue or it seems kind of crunchy.'' 
 There is also debate about whether individual action matters at all, with some experts noting that the most effective greening people can do is in the voting booth. No individual action could compare, for instance, to the emissions avoided if the government found a way to replace coal with other technologies to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, said Michael Shellenberger, president of the Breakthrough Institute, a research organization in Oakland, Calif. 
 He is among those who argue that the impact of individual reductions in emissions is largely irrelevant. ''People just want to feel good about themselves,'' he said.
 But that is not to say there's no environmental benefit from reducing energy consumption. Dr. Ackerman said it is also important that the United States, which produces more emissions of greenhouse gases per capita than any other country, serve as an example to others. 
 ''Growing countries like China and India are looking to copy us,'' Dr. Ackerman said. ''So it's of particular importance for us to develop a low-carbon version of a comfortable life, instead of a gasoline-fueled, high-energy lifestyle.'' 
 Clients come with varying needs and motivations, said Mr. Pelletier, the consultant. 
 Three years ago, when Mr. Pelletier, an environmental engineer, started out in the field of eco-consultancy, most clients were not only worried about the environment, but also ''wanted to keep up with the Joneses,'' he said. ''Some would say, 'My neighbor has solar panels and a Prius, and I want solar panels and a Prius, too.' '' But times have changed. ''Over the last two years, that group has been replaced by those saying, 'I want to save money on my energy bill,' '' he said.
 Ms. Sanchez and Mr. Bryson said they understood the limits of individual action, but still wanted to do something. After studying Mr. Pelletier's report, they are reprogramming the sprinklers to reduce water usage, as well as considering car-pooling and a solar water heater, which Mr. Pelletier said could cost them $2,500. 
 ''I think it's more about living responsibly, even if I can't single-handedly change the impact we have,'' Mr. Bryson said. 
 Ms. Sanchez said, ''It's doing what's right.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WATER USE: Jason Pelletier checks a toilet for Alina Sanchez and George Bryson. (pg.D1)
ECO EXAM: In surveying the Los Angeles home of Alina Sanchez and George Bryson, top left, Jason Pelletier checked light fixtures, faucet drips, irrigation settings, window efficiency and the water heater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SORTING IT OUT: Among other things, Stephanie Gregerman suggested that Sal Scamardo pay extra for wind power, take shorter showers and switch to compact fluorescent bulbs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); WATER CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (73%); ACCREDITATION (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



261 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Georgia Man Is Convicted In Conspiracy

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
A former Georgia Tech student was convicted by a federal judge on Wednesday of conspiring to provide material support to terrorists.
 The former student, Syed Haris Ahmed, 24, faces up to 15 years in prison for making videos of landmarks in Washington that were sent to people suspected of being recruiters for terrorist groups in Iraq and Pakistan. 
 Mr. Ahmed, a United States citizen born in Pakistan and raised near Atlanta, filmed brief digital videos of the Capitol, the Pentagon, a Masonic Temple, the World Bank and fuel tanks near Interstate 95 in Northern Virginia in 2005. 
 Prosecutors said a co-conspirator, Ehsanul Islam Sadequee, sent the videos to Younis Tsouli, suspected of being a recruiter for Al Qaeda in Iraq, and Aabid Hussein Kahn, who the authorities said had ties to terrorist groups in Pakistan.
 Mr. Ahmed also discussed terrorist plots in America, including attacking Dobbins Air Reserve Base near Atlanta, the authorities said, but never posed an imminent threat.
 Mr. Ahmed's lawyer, Jack Martin, said his client's actions were ''boastful, immature talk'' from a man ''searching for the responsibilities of his religion, but never really entering into any deliberate conspiracy.''
 Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Sadequee traveled to Canada in March 2005 and met three other targets of an F.B.I. investigation, with whom they discussed strikes against military bases, oil refineries and a Global Positioning System, the authorities said. 
 Mr. Ahmed then traveled to Pakistan in July 2005 as part of a plan to train with the terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba, although he returned to Atlanta early, according to federal authorities.
 Judge William S. Duffey Jr. of Federal District Court delayed sentencing Mr. Ahmed until after Mr. Sadequee's trial, which is scheduled to begin in August. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Syed Ahmed 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); JUDGES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); SENTENCING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); RELIGION (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



262 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 JAPAN'S EMISSIONS PLAN
 Draws Criticism
 Japan, a major emitter of greenhouse gases and an important player in the global warming debate, announced that by 2020 it intended to reduce emissions 15 percent from 2005 levels -- a goal criticized as inadequate by environmentalists and international officials. PAGE A8
 JOBLESSNESS IN SOUTH AFRICA 
 President Jacob Zuma of South Africa is trying to manage the high expectations of South Africa's unemployed multitudes and the trade unions that helped bring him to power, even as he faces the country's first postapartheid recession. PAGE A6
 CENSORING PCS IN CHINA
 China is facing protests at home and abroad over new regulations requiring all personal computers sold in the country to include software that can filter out pornography and other ''vulgar'' content from the Internet. PAGE A8
 Sarkozy Reimagines Paris A12
 British Officers Suspended A8 National
 PANEL TO INVESTIGATE
 University Admissions
 Gov. Patrick J. Quinn of Illinois appointed a panel to investigate accusations that the University of Illinois admitted hundreds of applicants based largely on their political connections. PAGE A18
 GROUP MAY BUY CLINIC
 Troy Newman, the head of the anti-abortion organization Operation Rescue, says his group may try to buy the now-closed Wichita abortion clinic owned by a doctor who was shot to death last month. PAGE A20
 CONVICTION IN CONSPIRACY
 A former Georgia Tech student was convicted by a federal judge of conspiring to provide material support to terrorists. PAGE A21
 Arrest in Artifacts Inquiry A21 
 New York
 IN GRIDLOCK, SENATE DRIFTS
 Further Into Disarray
 The New York Legislature remained at a standstill -- two days after a sudden Republican takeover of the Senate -- as an important key Democrat wavered in his allegiance to a fragile governing coalition. PAGE A23
 3 More With Swine Flu Die A24
 Business
 REPORT EXPECTS SAVINGS
 For Small Businesses
 A small-business group says health care proposals being considered by the White House and Senate leaders could save small companies tens of billions of dollars a year in health care costs, even if there is a mandate for employer coverage. PAGE B2
 OIL PRICES WIDEN DEFICIT
 Regional economies in the United States are still hurting or even sliding lower as the recession lingers, though the rate of decline is tapering off. Meanwhile, higher oil prices are widening the gap between the nation's imports and exports. PAGE B3
 BILL FOR JOINT REGISTRY
 Two House Democrats introduced a bill to create a national database of patients who received artificial hips and knees, a system already used in some other countries to track how patients fare and reduce unnecessary surgery. PAGE B3
 DELPHI MUST SEEK SUITORS
 A federal judge ordered Delphi, the beleaguered auto parts maker, to open its sales process to other possible bidders, paving the way for alternatives to a deal struck last week with Platinum Equity, a private equity firm. PAGE B4
 Official Defends Aid to Detroit B4 
 Chrysler Takeover Completed B4 
 Sports
 DEALING WITH FATIGUE
 As Minutes Add Up
 Kobe Bryant has been playing basketball virtually nonstop for 20 months, going back to the Beijing Olympics, and those minutes appear to be catching up to the 30-year-old Los Angeles Lakers superstar in the N.B.A. Finals. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE B12
 OPTING FOR LOTS OF BLING
 To mark the occasion of winning their N.F.L.-best sixth Super Bowl, the Pittsburgh Steelers felt that their championship rings should be a departure from the team's unshowy image. PAGE B12
 SAVING THE PENGUINS
 The defenseman Rob Scuderi was the unlikely hero in Game 6 of the Stanley Cup Finals, keeping the Pittsburgh Penguins alive with a heady play to stop a late scoring chance by the Detroit Red Wings. PAGE B13
 Arts
 RICHARD III,
 In Arabic This Time
 Ben Brantley writes that Fayez Kazak, who plays the title character in ''Richard III: An Arab Tragedy,'' an Arabic-language variation on Shakespeare's ''Richard III'' at the Harvey Theater in Brooklyn, seems to exist in a blur of perpetual motion. PAGE C1
 VANISHING HISTORY COURSES
 The shrinking importance of traditional historical specialties on college campuses is the subject of a round-table discussion to be held this month at the annual convention of the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations. PAGE C1
 TEENAGE MOTHERS ON MTV
 A new documentary-style series on MTV, ''16 and Pregnant,'' revolves around different girls struggling with the challenges of teenage pregnancy. Review by Ginia Bellafante. PAGE C2
 Styles
 GOODWILL AIMS 
 At Higher-End Shoppers
 Intent on sprucing up an image that conjures low-end castoffs and no-frills ambience, many Goodwill stores are courting the shoppers who scour high-end resale shops and department store sales racks for bargains. PAGE D1
 Giving Birth, on YouTube D1
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A31
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (86%); CONSPIRACY (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (85%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); CENSORSHIP (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (72%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); PORNOGRAPHY (70%); LITIGATION (70%); JUDGES (70%); SALES & SELLING (69%); TAKEOVERS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (67%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); ABORTION (66%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); TERRORISM (64%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (56%); PAT QUINN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (95%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



263 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: This Time, We Won't Scare

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Perhaps you've seen those television commercials denouncing health care reform as a plot to create a Canadian-style totalitarian nightmare, and you feel a wee bit scared.
 Back in the election campaign, some people spread rumors that Barack Obama might be a secret Muslim conspiring to impose Sharia law on us. That seems unlikely now, but what if he's a covert Canadian plotting to impose ... health care?
 Rick Scott, a former hospital company chief executive, leads a group called Conservatives for Patients' Rights. He was forced to resign as C.E.O. after his company defrauded the government through overbilling and is now spending his time trying to block meaningful health care reform by terrifying us with commercials of ''real-life stories of the victims of government-run health care.'' 
 So here's a far more representative ''real-life story.'' 
 Diane Tucker, 59, is an American lawyer who moved to Vancouver, Canada, in 2006. Like everyone else there, she now pays the equivalent of just $49 a month for health care.
 Then one day two years ago, Ms. Tucker was working on her office computer when she noticed that she was having trouble typing with her right hand.
 ''I realized my hand was numb, so I tried to stand up to shake it out,'' she remembered. ''But I had trouble standing.''
 A colleague called 911, and an ambulance rushed her to the nearest hospital.
 ''An emergency room doctor met me at the door, and they took me straight upstairs to the CT scan,'' she recalled. A neurologist explained that she had suffered a stroke.
 Ms. Tucker spent a week at the hospital. ''The doctors were great, although there were also a couple of jerks,'' she said. ''The nursing staff was wonderful.''
 Still, there were two patients to a room, and conditions weren't as opulent as at some American hospitals. ''The food was horrible,'' she said. 
 Then again, the price was right. ''They never spoke to me about money,'' she said. ''Not when I checked in, and not when I left.''
 Scaremongers emphasize the waits for specialists in Canada, and there's some truth to the stories. After the stroke, Ms. Tucker needed to make a routine appointment with a neurologist and an ophthalmologist to see if she should drive again. Initially, those appointments would have meant a two- or three-month wait, although in the end she managed to arrange them more quickly.
 Ms. Tucker underwent three months of rehabilitation, including physical therapy several times a week. Again there was no charge, no co-payment. 
 Then, last year, Ms. Tucker fainted while on a visit to San Francisco, and an ambulance rushed her to the nearest hospital. But this was in the United States, so the person meeting her at the emergency room door wasn't a doctor.
 ''The first person I saw was a lady with a computer,'' she said, ''asking me how I intended to pay the bill.'' Ms. Tucker did, in fact, have insurance, but she was told she would have to pay herself and seek reimbursement.
 Nothing was seriously wrong, and the hospital discharged her after five hours. The bill came to $8,789.29.
 Ms. Tucker has since lost her job in the recession, but she says she's stuck in Canada -- because if she goes back to the United States, she will pay a fortune for private health insurance because of her history of a stroke. ''I'm trying to find another job here,'' she said. ''I want to stay here because of medical insurance.''
 Another advantage of the Canadian system, she says, is that it emphasizes preventive care. When a friend was diagnosed as being pre-diabetic, he was put in a free two-year program emphasizing an improved diet and lifestyle -- and he emerged as no longer being prone to diabetes.
 If Ms. Tucker's story surprises you, you should know that Mr. Scott's public relations initiative against health reform is led by the same firm that orchestrated the ''Swift boat campaign'' against Senator John Kerry in 2004. These commercials are just as false, for President Obama is not proposing government-run health care -- just a public insurance element in the mix.
 No doubt there are some genuine horror stories in Canada, as there are here in the United States. 
 But the bottom line is that America's health care system spends nearly twice as much per person as Canada's (building the wealth of hospital tycoons like Mr. Scott). Yet our infant mortality rate is 40 percent higher than Canada's, and American mothers are 57 percent more likely to die in childbirth than Canadian ones.
 In 1993, the ''Harry and Louise'' commercials frightened Americans into abandoning health reform. Let's ensure those scare tactics don't work this time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); STROKES (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (70%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (70%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (68%); STROKE TREATMENT & REHABILITATION (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



264 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME WITH PAULA HAYES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: Love Alters the Landscape

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
PAULA HAYES likes collisions, particularly those involving meteors, because they give birth to crystals, structures she's enthusiastic about right now. ''Meteors! Dynamism! What's not to love?'' she'll tell you excitedly, pointing to the heat of their impact as the ''miraculous transmutation of life.''
 One bright morning recently, Ms. Hayes patted the glittering quartz landscape of a section of her tiny Brooklyn garden into which were tucked soft, blobby silicone planters no bigger than a child's hand and filled with begonias. ''Living room necklaces'' -- little webs of crocheted fishing line designed by Ms. Hayes -- curled down from a Japanese maple; some of their pockets were filled with bromeliads, spiky water-hoarding epiphytes that looked like alien pets. You wanted to lie down and peer through the underbrush, in case a critter was lurking there. 
 ''I wanted to make the garden magical and hopeful,'' said Ms. Hayes, 50, whose fantastical herbaceous art pieces like hand-blown terrariums have made her an art-world darling. ''A healing place that's part of our story. The other thing I was after is this idea of visitation. You know, aliens.'' 
 Except for the bromeliads, aliens were not wildly apparent that morning. But there was a sense that the garden, a postage-stamp space behind a brick row house in Boerum Hill, was nonetheless a place of tremendous abundance (even slugs are welcome; Ms. Hayes plants sweet potato vines for them to munch).
 Yet it was not too long ago that this garden was a desolate square of lawn and fallow vegetable patch that had been abandoned by its owner, Teo Camporeale, 43, a soulful 3-D animator and composer who is now married to Ms. Hayes, and Ms. Hayes was living like a monk in a small walk-up on East Fifth Street in Manhattan. She had a few amenities -- a futon, a rice cooker, a stack of clear plastic boxes with the childhood artwork of her son and daughter, now in their late 20s -- and a companion, a surly Chihuahua named Diego.
 ''I was pretty much married to my work,'' said Ms. Hayes, the daughter of farmers from Fonda, N.Y. (population 810), who took her master's degree in sculpture at Parsons in the late '80s and supported herself by working as a gardener. By the late '90s, sculpture and gardens had merged in her brain, she said. She created her signature planters -- soft and biomorphic silicone pouches that gentle a plant's root ball -- and Plantpacks, designed to be worn on the chest like BabyBjorns for asparagus ferns. ''Like motherhood,'' she said. ''Love on the go!'' 
 Since then, her down-the-rabbit-hole environments -- and Ms. Hayes's ''nurturing spirit,'' in the words of William T. Georgis, an architect with whom she has collaborated on a few rarefied Hamptons properties -- have kept her an unlikely art star for over a decade; unlikely because her deeply personal, ephemeral and handmade worlds have told a markedly different story from the identity politics, nihilism and cultural commentary of many of her art world peers. 
 ''It's like a continuous art project, her biospheres,'' said Aby Rosen, the developer, who has eight. ''They are a hybrid between a living organism and a piece of art.'' Also, as he pointed out, ''You just want to crawl inside them.''
 This year is typically robust: Ms. Hayes was nominated for a Cooper-Hewitt National Design Award, a huge honor, though another firm took the prize. Next Thursday, she has a show opening at the Marianne Boesky Gallery in Chelsea. It includes six giant terrariums, a beguilingly beautiful animated film about an extraterrestrial gardener that is a collaboration between Ms. Hayes and Mr. Camporeale, and a rooftop garden.
 On July 1, the W South Beach, a 408-room luxury hotel five years in the making, will be open for business in Miami Beach. Designed by Costas Kondylis, with interiors by Yabu Pushelberg and Anna Busta, it is surrounded by the dreamscape-landscapes Ms. Hayes has created, whimsical outdoor rooms of sea grape, saw palmetto and pitch apple trees hung with birdcages and fragments of poetry. 
 But back in the spring of 2006, Ms. Hayes's daughter, Rylan Morrison, was compelled to give her mother a lecture. ''She told me I was never going to meet the love of my life having dinner with Diego in front of the Jim Lehrer news hour,'' said Ms. Hayes, who had been divorced from Rylan's father for two decades. So instead of ordering in that April, Ms. Hayes began dutifully picking up her meals at Caravan of Dreams, a vegetarian restaurant on East Sixth Street. She soon met Mr. Camporeale, another regular there, who liked to visit Caravan of Dreams after he looked in on his widowed mother on 10th Street.
 Sitting on the bench out front, Ms. Hayes and Mr. Camporeale sipped bright green juices and uncovered common interests, like animals, quantum physics and outer space. ''Of course I noticed he was hot,'' said Ms. Hayes, who boldly invited Mr. Camporeale to visit her 13th Street studio, where the terrariums and other projects are hatched. A year later, Ms. Hayes moved into Mr. Camporeale's century-old Boerum Hill house 
 ''Welcome to our highly humble hippie habitat,'' Ms. Hayes said. ''I am very domestic, as it turned out.'' There was a crystal terrarium on the dining room table -- crystals are the latest iterations of Ms. Hayes's magical biospheres (besides being a new passion of hers, they are harder for clients to kill, though they do like full moon baths, she said, and come with a calendar detailing five years worth of full moons). Nearby was a giant biomorphic terrarium big enough to tango with, one of six that will be on view at Ms. Hayes's show next week. There were eucalyptus, laurel and grapevines woven through the stair balusters to keep Diego from slipping through them. (Diego, having been released from an upstairs bedroom, clattered over to a reporter and looked up at her with eager, rheumy eyes. ''It's a trick: Do not pat the dog,'' warned Ms. Hayes. ''He will bite.'') 
 Mr. Camporeale, whose two cats and a turtle, all rescue animals, have by now grudgingly accepted Diego, urged breakfast (''He's a super mensch,'' Ms. Hayes said) and told of buying this house in 1997, for about $225,000. His father, an artist and thwarted gardener, had just received a diagnosis of cancer. Mr. Camporeale's parents' apartment on East 10th, where they had been living since 1952, was stuffed with his father's efforts: herbs and tomatoes on the fire escape, and a living room layered with seedlings and compost. Fruit flies were an issue. ''It was driving my mother crazy,'' said Mr. Camporeale, who offered his new yard to his father. 
 Mr. Camporeale did the heavy lifting -- hefting in thousands of dollars of topsoil and compost, carving out beds to his father's instructions for tomatoes, green beans, herbs, roses, geraniums and lots of marigolds to keep the bugs away. 
 ''Of course, your taste is more expensive,'' Mr. Camporeale said to his wife.
 Mr. Camporeale's father would come out each afternoon after chemotherapy to work on the garden. ''It was his therapy,'' Mr. Camporeale said. ''The garden got him through. But when the cancer came back seven years later, he was no longer able to work on it.''
 Mr. Camporeale, who married soon after he bought the house, was divorced in 2003. His father died the next year. The garden suffered.
 ''I couldn't keep up with it,'' he said. ''It got pretty forlorn looking.'' When he met Ms. Hayes, he said, ''we had both been through hard stuff. The house retained a kind of grimness. It was pretty sad here.''
 Said Ms. Hayes: ''I made him throw everything away. We were exorcising.''
 Then she tackled the garden, moving slowly at first. She wove birch twigs into a chain-link fence. ''Chain-link is harsh unless you can connect to that fishnet stocking look,'' Ms. Hayes said. She moved a rosebush from the front to the back of the house and planted a fig tree. The soil, she said, was wonderful, retaining the richness that Mr. Camporeale's father had put there.
 ''It made me cry,'' she said, bursting into tears. 
 On the terrace, she showed off her Dumpling planters, soft rubber pouches with drawstring ties. ''In the summer, you can undress them, and work the root ball, and in the winter you can cinch them really tight,'' Ms. Hayes said. ''This one is ruched and so glamorous, don't you think?'' -- she nodded fondly at a Dumpling filled with Japanese forest grass -- ''it's like a Chanel bag.'' Her terrariums and crystal gardens range from $4,000 to $60,000, and living necklaces (bromeliads in delicate crocheted sacks) from $200 to $1,200; she is looking to mass-produce the Dumplings at a more affordable price point.
 Last week, she wore a stretchy bright blue tunic by Maria Cornejo, a designer she wears exclusively. (''She gets women,'' Ms. Hayes said, pulling out the fabric at her midsection, ''she gets it if you have a belly day.'') Although, she said, ''Since the recession I've been trying not to weed in them. I'm like, 'Honey, I'm going to slip into something less expensive.' '' 
 Ms. Hayes was on her way to a presentation at the Core Club of her latest project, the gardens surrounding the new W South Beach, which were finished last month. David Edelstein, who with Aby Rosen is the developer, talked about how he had been moved by Ms. Hayes's Alice in Wonderland qualities, and how he'd wanted that kind of soul for his new hotel, which is rather surprising, given that ''soul'' is not a word one hears too often in conjunction with pricey Miami Beach real estate. 
 ''That's what I always hope people want,'' Ms. Hayes said, ''but so often there is a kind of erasure.''
 Two summers ago, Mr. Camporeale invited Ms. Hayes for a walk on the piers along the West Side Highway. She balked at first. ''We don't have time,'' she remembered saying. ''He's like, 'I have something for you.' We sat down and he handed me an old Cat in the Hat jack-in-the-box. I'm like, 'Oh, vintage, that's cool.' He said, 'Why don't you see if it works?' ''
 It did, and what popped out was the cat holding a sign Mr. Camporeale had inked with the words ''Will you marry me?'' 
 Last August, the two were married in the garden Ms. Hayes had made, and danced a five-step tango along its tiny path with a rose that migrated from Mr. Camporeale's breast pocket to Ms. Hayes's teeth. 
 ''We really practiced,'' Ms. Hayes said, ''and I'd been doing lots of yoga so I didn't break anything.''
 They strung hundreds of marigolds and hung them inside and outside the house. ''The spirit of the marigolds!'' Mr. Camporeale said of the garlands, put there in honor of his father, whose ashes are in the garden. 
 What still thrills Mr. Camporeale, he said, ''is that a good night for us is sitting on the couch watching a DVD about quantum physics.'' 
 ''We are both nerds,'' said Ms. Hayes, pushing her glasses up the bridge of her nose. ''We both wear glasses.''
 ''Paula used to be the most ethereal person,'' said Andrea Rosen, the gallerist, the other day. ''Now she's evolved into a grounded fairy.'' 
 Ms. Hayes is not entirely convinced. 
 ''The thing about being an overachiever is, you are stoic and you believe you can do anything, so you do,'' Ms. Hayes said. ''It's not until you find love that you realize you are fragile.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WONDERLAND Paula Hayes, above right, imagined her garden as a series of dioramas. Clockwise from top: a cast acrylic bird bath
Tyvek ''air hammocks'' designed with her assistant, John Gray
Turtle, a turtle, lives inside, as does a terrarium
a ''living room necklace'' lives in the garden. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
'HIPPIE HABITAT': Paula Hayes and Teo Camporeale were married in the garden, above right, of their row house, top left
her giant terrarium will be at the Marianne Boesky Gallery
on the dining table, a crystal terrarium
a Dumpling planter
chunks of recycled glass in the garden. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ARTISTIC VISION: For the W South Beach, a hotel opening July 1, Ms. Hayes created outdoor rooms -- ''elegant jungles,'' she said -- of sea grape, saw palmetto and pitch apple tree. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MORIS MORENO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); GARDENING (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); ANIMATION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



265 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: New Asia-Pacific Statistics Offer Little Hope for Growth

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
The global economy may have stopped its free fall, but data from the Asia-Pacific region on Wednesday underscored what economists have long cautioned: a return to actual growth is months off, and once it does arrive, it will be feeble. 
 In Japan, orders for machinery slid 5.4 percent in April from a month earlier, much more than analysts had expected, official data showed Wednesday.
 Orders for factory equipment are a useful barometer of investment plans and of the economy as a whole, and the steep decline in April showed just how fragile and protracted a return to growth will be in Japan. With the economy mired in recession and demand for Japanese goods abroad likely to stay weak for months, Japanese companies remain reluctant to invest in equipment.
 Similarly, data in Malaysia showed factory output down 11.4 percent in April from a year earlier. The drop was less pronounced than during previous months, but it was the eighth consecutive month of decline, showing how severely the drop-off in global trade had dented production.
 Exports in the region have shrunk as the United States and Europe have fought recession.
 April statistics published Wednesday in the Philippines illustrated the trend: Exports were down 35.2 percent from a year earlier and down 3.6 percent from March. South Korea, where unemployment rose to a nearly four-year high of 3.9 percent in May, and Taiwan have recently reported similarly disappointing export data for May.
 By contrast, Australia appears further on the path to recovery, as far-reaching stimulus measures take effect. Consumer confidence jumped in June by the most in 22 years after the economy unexpectedly avoided recession, according to a survey published Wednesday. Similarly, approvals for home loans rose for a seventh consecutive month, helped by government incentives and lower interest rates.
 Trade, investment and retail data from China, due this week, are expected to show evidence of how resilient that economy is -- though growth there, too, will remain well below the torrid levels seen before the global crisis.
 ''There have been further signs of economic green shoots around the globe over the last month,'' said Sarah Arkle, chief investment officer at Threadneedle, in a note published Wednesday. ''We should stress, however, that the situation is generally one of a less negative environment, rather than a positive one.''
 Hopes for a recovery -- even a mild one -- have helped stock markets rally since March, interrupted only by temporary setbacks. Stocks in the Asia-Pacific region continued upward on Wednesday, led by Hong Kong, which gained 4 percent. The Nikkei 225 share average in Japan rose 2.1 percent, and stocks in Australia, whose commodities-dependent economy also benefits from a recent recovery in the price of oil and other raw materials, added 2.3 percent.
 In its note, Threadneedle said it expected market progress to be ''much slower in the months ahead, given the prospects of a slow economic recovery.'' It said, however, that it had ''a strong preference for Asia and emerging markets,'' where economies have generally weathered the downturn better than had been feared, and ''have little of the debt baggage, at either the fiscal or consumer level, that haunts many Western developed countries.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



266 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: In Pitching to Angel Investors, Preparation Tops Zeal

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
FOR entrepreneurs hoping to land start-up capital from angel investors, here's what two recent studies found: Don't get carried away when you pitch your product because the investors may lose interest faster than you can say ''almost unlimited market.''
 And one misstep -- like stammering a vague reply instead of saying you do not know the answer -- can also kill a deal, the authors of the studies say. 
 Angel investors are generally wealthy people seeking promising start-ups that are too small to attract the attention of venture capitalists. The estimated 260,500 active angels in the United States are the largest source of seed and start-up capital for entrepreneurs (not counting their own savings or money from family and friends), according to Jeffrey Sohl, the director of the Center for Venture Research at the University of New Hampshire. 
 Even last year, as the recession gathered force, these angels spent $19.2 billion on more than 55,000 ventures, he said, though that was down from $26 billion in 2007. The average investment for each deal last year was $346,500.
 By contrast, venture capitalists made only 440 investments in start-ups last year, putting the bulk of their money in later stages of a company's growth in deals that averaged $7.5 million, Mr. Sohl said. ''Angels provide the seed and start-up funding that turns acorns into trees like Starbucks, FedEx, Amazon and Google,'' Mr. Sohl said.
 Typically, entrepreneurs make their initial pitch to angels in an informal session. If their idea is judged to have promise, they may be invited to give a PowerPoint presentation followed by a question-and-answer session.
 With time at a premium, it is imperative for entrepreneurs to come prepared to both meetings with solid arguments about their product's marketability and with evidence of their commitment to their company in the form of sweat equity and their own investment, experts say.
 But enthusiasm is a different matter, according to a study that was presented last week at an entrepreneurship conference at Babson College outside Boston.
 ''That is the trickiest part,'' said Richard Sudek, an angel investor and assistant professor of entrepreneurship at Chapman University in Orange, Calif., and one of the three authors of that study. ''We like you to show some excitement, but don't force it. Being authentic is much more important. There is such a thing as quiet passion. Anything that comes across as slickness is a negative.''
 Cheryl Mitteness, a doctoral candidate in entrepreneurial studies at the University of Louisville and one of Mr. Sudek's co-authors, was even more emphatic. ''Show your passion,'' she said, ''but don't try to be somebody that you're not. Angels are very leery of too much enthusiasm.'' 
 Another research paper, by Xiao-Ping Chen and Suresh Kotha of the University of Washington and Xin Yao of Wichita State University and published in The Academy of Management Journal in February, came to much the same conclusion. The effects of perceived passion, defined as cues like facial expressions, tone of voice and hand gestures, ''were statistically insignificant,'' the article said.
 Ms. Chen, a professor at her university's business school, called the findings ''surprising,'' especially since she and her colleagues often rely on such signals in their hiring decisions. ''You can show your passion through preparedness, how well you've thought out your business plan,'' she said. ''But the style of your presentation doesn't matter.''
 What angels are looking for, authors of both reports said, is evidence of a market opportunity with growth potential, a strong management team and an exit strategy, including a list of possible acquirers, since the eventual sale of the companies they invest in is how they make money.
 ''Also, angels put a high value on trustworthiness,'' said Mr. Sudek of Chapman, a former entrepreneur himself and the chairman-elect of Tech Coast Angels, the largest angel group in the United States. ''If you don't know the answer to a question, say so, and promise to get back to them. Don't fake it.''
 In fact, acknowledging gaps in your knowledge and other weaknesses, and letting angels know you need their help, can add to your credibility, he said.
 Here are some other tips from the researchers:
 Memorize an ''elevator pitch'' for your product and its potential in 90 seconds or less. It will bolster your confidence, and you can recycle it to win over customers, vendors and employees.
 Consider hiring a speech coach, but only one familiar with angel investors' thinking.
 Attend ''pitching contests'' that many business schools and angel groups sponsor.
 In presentations, be upbeat but realistic in your profit and revenue projections. Better yet, draw up optimistic, middle-ground and pessimistic projections to show how carefully you have thought them through.
 Ted Ray, founder of Ted's Tinctures Inc. in Mountain View, Calif., has some advice for fellow entrepreneurs, even though he is only now starting a quest for $500,000 in angel financing. 
 First, he said, have a product on the market. ''Nothing speaks more loudly than revenue coming in,'' he said. His two-year-old company, which makes an herbal remedy called FlyRight Jet Lag Formula, had sales last year of $25,000 and is on track to increase that by tenfold this year.
 Second, do not ask other people for money unless you have spent your own. He has put $105,000 of his savings into his firm and raised $185,000 from family and friends.
 Third, the business plan you show to potential investors should be concise. He suggested using software on Angelsoft.net.
 Fourth, seek angels with a record of investing in your field -- in his case, consumer products.
 And finally, he says, explore every angle. ''If an angel says no, ask him for the names of four other angels who might say yes,'' Mr. Ray said. ''My goal is to get 100 introductions to get 10 meetings to get three presentations to close one deal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Sudek, a college professor and active angel investor, says forced excitement can turn off potential investors and kill a deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (93%); VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



267 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: South Africa's Jobless Hope New President Delivers Work

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: ALEXANDRA, South Africa 

 BODY:
Like birds perched on a wire, the jobless men sat along a concrete wall, idle on a sun-drenched day and voicing an ardent hope that their new president, Jacob Zuma, would deliver for them. 
 ''He promised we are going to get back our jobs,'' said Godfrey Goodman, a laid-off union bricklayer from this bustling township, offering up this reason for his faith: ''I'm one of those people who raised him up.''
 Mr. Zuma must now manage the high expectations of South Africa's unemployed multitudes and the trade unions that helped bring him to power even as he faces post-apartheid South Africa's first-ever recession. It has arrived like a malevolent gift from the United States and Europe, authors of the global financial crisis, just as he assumed the presidency. 
 And the bad news just keeps coming. The government announced Wednesday that factory output plunged a record 21.6 percent from April 2008 to this past April.
 For Mr. Zuma, who made jobs the cornerstone of his campaign, the recent surge in unemployment to 23.5 percent not only complicates his ability to fulfill his promises, but also aggravates a problem that has long bedeviled the governing African National Congress: extreme levels of joblessness that have persisted even when South Africa, the region's richest nation, was growing robustly.
 And with tens of thousands of union workers losing the very kinds of decent jobs that Mr. Zuma had pledged to create, the mighty Congress of South African Trade Unions, or Cosatu, part of the governing alliance, is acting like a rambunctious outsider, seeking to press Mr. Zuma to enact more populist economic policies. So far, the country has contained social pressures with an expansive safety net. More than a quarter of the population receives welfare grants.
 The union federation, challenging the governing party's longstanding priority on inflation control, wants deeper cuts in interest rates and is demanding the replacement of the Reserve Bank governor, Tito Mboweni, when his term expires in August. It recently hailed the metal workers union for marching on the Reserve Bank to demand such cuts. 
 The rise of unemployment since the country's liberation from white minority rule in 1994 has afflicted the lives of millions and contributed to crime, poverty and inequality. For a decade, South Africa has experienced stubbornly high unemployment rates rare except in countries enduring a major economic contraction. The problem is often attributed to the shrinking demand for workers in traditional manufacturing and mining sectors and an education system that fails to prepare poor students for the workplace.
 Mr. Zuma, who during the election tended to steer clear of tough positions that could alienate voting blocs, will now have to define himself on economic issues. He began to do so last week in his State of the Nation address. He set out plans to create millions of temporary public works jobs, retrain workers facing layoffs, aid distressed companies and buy more goods made in South Africa.
 He also endorsed a more ambitious ''industrial policy,'' which unions have pushed, to bring greater state intervention into parts of the economy with the potential to generate jobs making cars, clothing and other goods. 
 None of the proposals in his address this week angered his backers, but a panel of internationally known economists commissioned by a former finance minister, Trevor Manuel, who now heads a powerful planning commission, last year recommended approaches that would probably displease trade unions and the black political and business elite.
 One notable fact about South Africa's unemployed is that most of them have never held any job, the panel noted.
 To help the never hired get a foot in the door, the panel recommended a time-limited wage subsidy coupled with a trial period when an employer could fire them, ''no questions asked.''
 The unions oppose this idea. ''We fear employers will exploit it to restructure labor relations,'' Zwelinzima Vavi, general secretary of Cosatu, said in an interview. ''They will have the workers at very low wages and fire them at will.''
 Dani Rodrik, a Harvard economist and a member of the panel, said he hoped Mr. Zuma's close ties to trade unions would enable him to overcome such fears. ''If you don't get these people in the work force, you'll lose them forever to lives of distress,'' he said. The panel also recommended that the Black Economic Empowerment program, which has sought to redress past racial discrimination, shift more markedly from giving blacks equity in companies and senior management positions, to job creation and training for blacks at the bottom of the heap. 
 Moeletsi Mbeki, an engineer, private investor and the brother of former South African president Thabo Mbeki, advocates getting rid of equity transfers entirely. He says that such transfers have created a small elite of politically connected tycoons rather than broadly benefiting the black poor.
 The difficulties of challenging the unions, in particular, are clear. Cosatu is determined to show its rank and file it will take to the streets, if necessary, to fight for better wages and policies. Mr. Vavi warned the new government that delays in giving public employees pay increases ''could unleash explosive spates of uncontrollable labor unrest.'' The government and the unions agreed Monday to try to find a negotiated solution.
 ''This is a big labor movement with a big agenda and they're not giving Jacob Zuma a honeymoon,'' said Patrick Bond, a professor of development studies at the University of KwaZulu-Natal.
 Union leaders are still bitter that they were sidelined in the Mbeki years when the government pursued neoliberal, free-market policies. Analysts say Cosatu backed Mr. Zuma not so much because he was an ideological soul mate, but in a tactical move to win greater influence. 
 The fear of explosive unrest persists. Last year, riots swept through townships like this one in Johannesburg. Mobs attacked foreigners from Zimbabwe and Mozambique who were blamed for taking jobs and housing from South Africans. Sixty-two people were killed.
 Jobless people here say they admire Mr. Zuma, the son of a maid who had the smarts to fend off corruption charges. They hope he will use that moxie on their behalf. 
 But they also seem to be preparing for disappointment.
 ''Maybe Zuma will change everything the way he's promised,'' said Josephine Nontando Mahlangu, clutching her year-old son as she described years of joblessness. But often, she complained, politicians just look after themselves once votes are counted. ''Even Thabo Mbeki promised people to do a lot of things, but he didn't do them. We are still crying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHILING AWAY THE TIME Unemployed people in Alexandra, South Africa. The nation's jobless rate has reached 23.5 percent, complicating efforts to deal with a systemic problem.
 A PRESIDENT'S PROMISE Godfrey Goodman, right, a laid-off union bricklayer, said that South Africa's new president, Jacob Zuma, had promised to restore jobs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENEDICTE KURZEN/VII MENTOR, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); INTEREST RATES (61%); MINES & MINING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



268 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Kerkorian's Stakes May Be Down, But He Has Bounced Back Before

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Can a billionaire make a comeback in his 90s?
 If anyone can, it might be Kirk Kerkorian. Down as he is, don't count him out, say those who know him best, even now at 92.
 His fortune appears to have peaked two years ago when his stake in the casino giant MGM Mirage was worth about $14 billion. Today the value of all his public holdings clocks in at less than $2 billion. 
 The sagging economy has clobbered his Las Vegas-based casino empire, partly because it relied on borrowed money. But several other big investments have soured too. Just over a year ago, Mr. Kerkorian was betting that the Ford Motor Company would rise to the top among Detroit's automakers. While that idea may have been prescient, Ford's stock fell precipitously after he bought it, squeezing him financially. 
 Other elements of the economic crisis have blindsided Mr. Kerkorian as well. His casino company was shut out of the credit markets last fall when it needed crucial funding. 
 The sudden reversal in energy prices took another bite. Mr. Kerkorian continued to buy stock in Delta Petroleum, a natural gas exploration company, and he is now down nearly 75 percent on that $800 million investment.
 If Mr. Kerkorian is upset about his losses, associates say it does not show. ''Kirk has seen this before,'' said Alex Yemenidjian, the former chief executive of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and a longtime friend. ''To him, this is just a bump on the road.''
 Over his long career, Mr. Kerkorian has focused largely on gaming, movies and automobile investments, at times spinning off assets only to snap them up from those in distress later, showing little desire to diversify. 
 ''You can never tell if Kirk is up $10 billion or down $10 billion,'' Mr. Yemenidjian said. ''Once when I was upset because MGM casino stock had gone down, Mr. Kerkorian, who had owned it for years, said, 'Are you a seller?' and I said, 'No.' Kirk said, 'Are you a buyer?' and I said, 'No.' 'Then why are you upset?' he asked.'' 
 The outlook for Mr. Kerkorian, who declined requests for an interview, rests mostly on whether MGM Mirage can truly bounce back. The company's chief executive, James J. Murren, said that while Mr. Kerkorian does not have an operating role or office at the company, he talks to him almost every day, and that ''he is in Las Vegas every other week.'' 
 Drops in gambling, hotels and related businesses sent MGM Mirage into a nosedive late last year. But Bill Lerner, of the research firm Union Gaming Group, sees signs of stabilization. ''MGM is well positioned to capture a Las Vegas recovery'' when it does come, he said, adding that the company pursues a wide demographic.
 Even as MGM Mirage reported poor results for the first quarter, its stock rose early last month when the company noted that cancellations had slowed and occupancy had recovered somewhat after a dismal January and February.
 Mr. Kerkorian first ventured into Las Vegas with a stake in the Dunes in 1955. He built MGM Grand in 1973, sold it and built another MGM Grand in 1993 that became the base of the current company. Along with its Las Vegas holdings, the company has casinos in Mississippi, Michigan and abroad, in Macao.
 After years of stellar profits, the company has flirted with bankruptcy in this recession and faced litigation with its financial partner, Dubai World, over CityCenter, an $8.5 billion development in Las Vegas. The CityCenter project, including condominiums, hotel rooms, a casino and an entertainment complex, was an enormous risk that has been described as a ''bet the farm'' deal for MGM.
 Mr. Murren says that Mr. Kerkorian supported the joint venture, though ''it was my idea.'' 
 Each partner was to provide half the financing. MGM Mirage already had $14 billion in other debt, and then its revenue began to fall as Vegas visitors declined.
 Struggling to raise money to complete that project in a difficult financial market, the casino company was forced to sell shares and issue bonds, diluting the stake of existing shareholders. Mr. Kerkorian's stake fell to 37 percent, from 54 percent, even after he invested about $100 million in more shares. 
 ''MGM Mirage developed these massive and expensive projects without having the full financing locked down,'' Mr. Lerner said. ''They figured they would sell the residential units at CityCenter.''
 To skirt creditors' pressure and keep things moving, the CityCenter partners have ironed out some of their differences. In April, Dubai World, an investment arm of Dubai, withdrew a suit against MGM Mirage complaining of cost overruns and poor management. After that settlement, Bank of America and eight other banks agreed to release $1.8 billion in financing. 
 Mr. Kerkorian seems to be unruffled by the recent crisis. ''He is most serene when there is the most pressure,'' Mr. Murren said. 
 Like many investors who have concentrated positions, Mr. Kerkorian believes in the power of a few good ideas. Nearly a third of the assets in his philanthropy, the Lincy Foundation, were in MGM Mirage stock. The balance was in commercial paper. The foundation had $507.6 million at the end of its fiscal 2008.
 Mr. Yemenidjian recalled that this approach was not new: ''In 1989, when his only holdings were MGM Mirage and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, I asked him why he did not diversify. Without missing a beat, Kirk said: 'Alex, diversification is for those who are not sure of what they are doing.' ''
 Buying and selling assets in distress is one of Mr. Kerkorian's favorite ploys. For example, he bought the MGM studio and sold off parts, including MGM/UA Entertainment, to Ted Turner. When Mr. Turner faced financial pressure because of hefty debt, Mr. Kerkorian bought back United Artists and MGM and then resold them to Pathe Communications. When Pathe's owner, Giancarlo Paretti, encountered legal problems, Mr. Kerkorian resurfaced and repurchased MGM in 1992. In 2004, he sold it to a group of investors led by Sony. 
 If distress is his specialty, Mr. Kerkorian may be keeping a close eye on Ford these days. 
 In 2005, Mr. Kerkorian acquired nearly a 10 percent stake in General Motors, hoping to use it as a lever to get the auto giant to form a global alliance with Renault of France and Nissan Motors of Japan. When G.M. management rejected the idea, Mr. Kerkorian sold his stock.
 But early last year, he eagerly bought Ford stock, ultimately investing roughly $1 billion. 
 It seems to have been a case of the right idea at the wrong time. Ford has proved to be the strongest of Detroit's automakers, just as Mr. Kerkorian once contended, along with his chief lieutenant in auto investments, Jerome York, a former chief financial officer of Chrysler. 
 But to buy Ford stock, Mr. Kerkorian's company, Tracinda, pledged MGM Mirage stock as collateral. When MGM's stock began declining, Tracinda pledged more than half its MGM Mirage shares, before ultimately disposing of Ford at a loss of about $650 million. 
 The compounding problems at Ford and MGM Mirage have limited Mr. Kerkorian's net worth, and his options.
 Mr. Murren suggests that Mr. Kerkorian saw hints of the global economic problems back in 2007 when he suggested the company should start shedding some assets. ''MGM sold three casinos for $400 million, and then we sold two more for $200 million,'' Mr. Murren said, ''but we could have done more.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kirk Kerkorian, still a billionaire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); GAMING (89%); CASINOS (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (83%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (74%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); MGM (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (74%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (74%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (93%); JAMES J MURREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



269 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Japan Sets Emissions Targets, and No One Seems Pleased

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Makiko Inoue and Yasuko Kamiizumi contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan, a major emitter of greenhouse gases and an important player in the global warming debate, announced Wednesday that by 2020 it intended to reduce emissions 15 percent from 2005 levels -- a goal immediately criticized as inadequate by environmentalists and industry officials.
 Climate-change campaigners have called on Japan to set steep targets to build momentum before global climate talks this year in Copenhagen. A strong commitment by rich countries is seen as crucial to efforts to persuade emerging economic giants like China and India to make emissions reductions. 
 Japan's new target, announced by Prime Minister Taro Aso in a televised news conference, would put its 2020 emission levels just 8 percent below its 1990 levels. That is not much more, environmentalists say, than the 6 percent cut by 2012 that Tokyo committed to under the Kyoto Protocol created in 1990. Japan has struggled to meet that target; its greenhouse gas emissions have risen 9 percent from 1990 levels.
 Still, Mr. Aso called Japan's new target ''ambitious.'' 
 ''We are all responsible for stopping climate change,'' Mr. Aso said. ''We must ask the Japanese people to make sacrifices. That is the cost of saving our planet.''
 Mr. Aso has been keen to assert leadership in climate change ahead of national elections this year.
 The European Union has promised to cut emissions to a level 20 percent lower than levels in 1990, and by 30 percent if other wealthy nations follow suit.
 In the United States, which did not sign the Kyoto pact, a bill that would reduce emissions by 17 percent by 2020 from 2005 levels recently cleared a Congressional panel. That would be about 6 percent below 1990 levels. 
 Japan emits less relative to its total output than other major economies. Though Japan has the second largest economy, behind the United States, it ranks fifth in global emissions rankings, trailing the United States, China, Russia and India.
 But critics say there is more to be done.
 ''Japan's target is not nearly enough to stop the effects of global warming,'' said Naoyuki Yamagishi, the head of the climate change program at the environmental advocacy group WWF Japan. ''Japan has failed to step up to its international responsibilities,'' he said.
 Kristian Tangen, a director at Point Carbon, a research and consulting company based in Oslo, said Japan's goals were ''the weakest target any country has pledged so far.''
 Japanese businesses argue that their factories are already among the world's most energy-efficient and that the country will struggle to cut greenhouse gas emissions further. Since the oil shocks of the 1970s, Japanese companies have pursued technologies that save energy, a drive that has made the country a leader in alternative energy.
 Industry leaders also warn that stringent targets for emissions reductions would hurt the frail economy. Japan is in its worst recession since World War II, amid a collapse in global demand for its exports. Last month, industry groups took out a full-page advertisement in the largest daily paper in Japan, warning that steep targets for emissions reductions could hurt economic growth.
 ''The midterm targets need to be fair to all countries, realistic, and place equal burden on a country's citizens,'' the Keidanren, the largest business lobby in Japan, said in a statement on Tuesday. The lobby had backed a target that would have allowed for a 4 percent increase in emissions from 1990, or a 4 percent decrease compared with 2005.
 Mr. Aso was quick to point out that unlike targets set under the Kyoto Protocol, which allowed countries to use emissions offsets and other methods, the 15 percent decrease would come from actual cuts. The government recently introduced subsidies that encourage the use of solar power in Japanese homes, as well as incentives on low-emission cars.
 The 15 percent target, he stressed, was a compromise he had reached after consulting extensively with scientists and economists, as well as with members of the public.
 To meet the target, Japan will pursue breakthroughs in environmental technology, as well as expand the use of nuclear energy. Mr. Aso has said Tokyo aims to expand solar output by a factor of 20 and put more ''green'' cars on Japanese roads. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Aso said it was imperative for countries that had not signed the Kyoto Protocol, like the United States and China, to join in the next round of talks. The Kyoto pact covered countries responsible for just 29 percent of global emissions, he said.
 Tsutomu Toichi, head of the Institute of Energy Economics, an independent research organization, said Japan would struggle to meet its new emissions goals.
 ''Japan's target is a compromise, but it's still a tough one for Japan to meet,'' Mr. Toichi said. ''Japanese companies are already extremely energy efficient, so there's much less room for improvement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Japan has the world's second largest economy and ranks fifth in emissions. Above, an industrial port area in Chiba Prefecture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT KENNEDY BROWN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (96%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); RANKINGS (85%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) KANTO, JAPAN (79%); EARTH (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



270 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: King Helps Team Game Return to New York

BYLINE: By JOSHUA ROBINSON

 BODY:
Billie Jean King had been going to New York for years to compete in the United States Open before World TeamTennis helped her take root there. Soon after King began playing for the New York Sets in 1975, a time when the team game featured many of the biggest names in tennis, she decided to make the city her permanent home. 
 Now, King is returning the favor. She and the New York Sportimes are bringing World TeamTennis back to the city for the first time in 30 years. The Sportimes had been playing in Mamaroneck, N.Y., since 2003.
 Led on the court by John McEnroe, the Sportimes will play a seven-game home schedule this summer in a new 2,000-seat stadium on Randalls Island. Anna Kournikova, Serena Williams and Martina Navratilova are scheduled to play there when their teams visit.
 ''Everybody always wants to talk about Grand Slams and all that, but team tennis was one of my strongest memories, for sure,'' King said in a recent telephone interview.
 When World TeamTennis began play in 1974, it came with a host of nontraditional, and sometimes downright bizarre, innovations, from names on the backs of jerseys to multicolored courts. 
 Team matches are five sets, one each of men's singles, women's singles, men's doubles, women's doubles and mixed doubles. The first few seasons brought together players like King, Jimmy Connors, Bjorn Borg and Chris Evert in what King described as a ''basketball atmosphere,'' with in-game coaching, substitutions and constant noise from fans -- not just from grunting players.
 ''Back in those days, the season actually competed with the professional tennis tour and it was a top-20 players deal,'' said Claude Okin, managing partner of the Sportimes. ''Over the course of the next 30 years, it's become more of a second-tier league, more like what we might think of as a farm-team league in baseball, with appearances from these stars and legends.''
 Okin recalled his teenage years spent stringing rackets for the New York Sets, who later became the New York Apples, and watching them play before enthusiastic crowds at Madison Square Garden's Felt Forum (now the WaMu Theater). He said that bringing the Sportimes back to the city would be an opportunity for New York to recapture tennis excitement beyond the United States Open. 
 The net proceeds from the Sportimes' season will be used to help support the Randalls Island Sports Foundation, a public-private entity working with the city to rehabilitate Randalls Island. Through the foundation, Icahn Stadium, a track-and-field facility, was opened in 2005, and there are 60 athletic fields in development on the island. The tennis stadium, meanwhile, is at the heart of a new $15 million complex that includes 20 tennis courts and that will open this month.
 ''For us, the team has always been our charitable entity to promote tennis in a grassroots way,'' Okin said.
 The team's parent company, Sportime, which operates tennis and fitness facilities throughout New York, had been planning the complex before the economic outlook worsened. Okin conceded that corporate sponsorship had fallen below expectations, but he said he was confident that the blend of big-name players and young Americans competing in team tennis could attract a crowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); THEATER (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); BASEBALL (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); TRACK & FIELD (60%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



271 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Winner Is Ford (Sorry, G.M. and Chrysler)

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
There was something almost quaint about it: the United States government was not buying car companies, but buying cars. And its recent shopping spree showed that despite its entry into the car business, it was still willing to buy from competitors. 
 The early test of what life would look like now that the government is both a producer and a consumer of cars came thanks to the federal stimulus bill, which contained $300 million for the federal government to buy new, more fuel-efficient cars for its fleet.
 When the bill passed, few realized that the auto industry's woes would lead the government to acquire a majority stake in General Motors and a sizable piece of Chrysler. Some analysts wondered if the two companies would become the default issuers of government-issued cars, as the government tried to recoup its investment. 
 But when the federal General Services Administration announced this week that it had spent $287 million in stimulus money to buy 17,205 new cars, it turned out that the biggest beneficiary was the Ford Motor Company, the only one of Detroit's Big Three automakers that has not received a government bailout. 
 The General Services Administration, which manages a fleet of 213,000 vehicles for some 75 federal agencies, said it spent $129 million to buy 7,924 Fords; $105 million on 6,348 General Motors vehicles; and $53 million on 2,993 Chryslers. 
 The money, of course, is a drop in the bucket compared with the billions of dollars the government has spent to try to shore up General Motors and Chrysler.
 The government did not receive any discount on the cars from G.M. or Chrysler, or any of those free cars that have long been the treasured perks of auto executives. The General Services Administration said it used its existing contracts with car dealers -- with prices already set -- to place the new-car orders. It did not get any special owner's deals as a result of the government's new position in the auto industry, said Sahar Wali, an agency spokeswoman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



272 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Fed Sees Bright Spots in Weak Economy

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Economic conditions in the here-and-now may be dreary, but the Federal Reserve said Wednesday that at least one thing is improving: expectations for the future are improving in scattered areas.. 
 That was one of the conclusions of the Fed's June beige book, a regular yardstick of local economies in a dozen Fed districts from New York to St. Louis to San Francisco. Although the economic health ''remained weak or deteriorated further'' from mid-April to May, some less-bad indicators bubbled to the surface.
 Manufacturers reported a slightly better outlook. Home sales bounced back in some markets. Import and export traffic brightened elsewhere. And some parts of the country even said the abysmal job market was leveling out or improving slightly.
 Retailers in Boston were ''cautiously optimistic'' about an economic recovery, the Fed said, while those in Philadelphia expected sales to ''gain strength slowly.'' Employers in New York expect job losses to level off in coming months. 
 Of course, 18 months into the worst downturn since the Depression, any signs of improvement are relative, and hope does not translate into jobs or profits. 
 More than six million jobs have vanished since the recession began, home prices are still falling in many markets, and businesses faced with continued losses and smaller profits are not expected to increase their hiring or investment anytime soon.
 Although businesses and others in 5 of the 12 Fed districts said the sharp pace of economic declines was tapering off, that does not mark much improvement since April, when the beige book noted that 5 of the 12 noted a similar moderation. And even those who are more hopeful ''do not see a substantial increase in economic activity'' this year.
 The economic landscape across the country remained grim.
 In Cleveland, manufacturers predicted that demand this year would be even lower than last, and they said they continued to make layoffs and reduce their capital spending. Commercial real-estate and development remained abysmal in different parts of the country as vacancies rose and credit stayed tight. Tourism spending fell in Atlanta. In Chicago, construction was weak, and property values fell.
 The economy shrank at an annual pace of 5.7 percent during the first three months as businesses cut their costs and consumers slashed their spending in response to the financial crisis last year on Wall Street. Many economists expect the economy to contract at a slower and slower rate, before it begins to grow slightly toward the end of the year.
 ''While the rate of decline in economic output has slowed, there have been very few, if any, signs of an overall turnaround in consumer spending, business investment and the economy at large,'' Dan Greenhaus, an analyst in the equity strategy group at Miller Tabak & Company, wrote in a note. ''Stabilization, at some point, becomes stagnation.''
 The Fed said that retail spending was still shaky, and that consumers seeking to stretch their budgets continued to shop for bargains and avoided luxury purchases. Discounters reported an uptick in sales -- mirroring reports of strong sales at stores like Wal-Mart -- while luxury hotels suffered.
 Purchases of new cars were still depressed across much of the country, although auto sales picked up in Chicago as a result of sales and promotions, the Fed said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); RETAILERS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (61%); TOURISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



273 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Security Guard Is Killed in Shooting At Holocaust Museum in Washington

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT; Brian Knowlton and Theo Emery contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An 88-year-old white supremacist with a rifle walked into the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, one of the capital's most visited sites, on Wednesday afternoon and began shooting, fatally wounding a security guard and sending tourists scrambling before he himself was shot, the authorities said.
 The gunman was identified by law enforcement officials as James W. von Brunn, who embraces various conspiracy theories involving Jews, blacks and other minority groups and at one point waged a personal war with the federal government. 
 The gunman and the security guard were both taken to nearby George Washington University Hospital, with Mr. von Brunn handcuffed to a gurney, witnesses said. The guard, Stephen T. Johns, died a short time later. Museum officials said he had worked there for six years; The Associated Press reported his age as 39.
 Mayor Adrian M. Fenty said Mr. von Brunn was in critical condition. Chief Cathy L. Lanier of the Washington police said the gunman walked into the museum's main entrance shortly before 1 p.m. and began shooting without warning. At least one security guard was returning fire; a total of five or six shots are believed to have been fired.
 Officials and others who track conspiracy theorists have long been familiar with Mr. von Brunn, whose latest address is believed to be in Eastern Maryland, in part because he maintains a Web site. (Wednesday night, only an archived version of the site was available.) He has claimed variously to be a member of Mensa, the high-I.Q. society; to have played varsity football at a Midwestern college, where he earned a degree in journalism; to have been a PT boat commander in World War II; and to be a painter and an author.
 Mr. von Brunn has also claimed to have been victimized by a court system run by Jews and blacks. 
 Before Wednesday, he was best known to law enforcement officials for having walked into the Washington headquarters of the Federal Reserve System on Dec. 7, 1981, with a bag slung over the shoulder of his trench coat. A guard chased him to the second floor, where the Fed's board was meeting, and found a revolver, a hunting knife and a sawed-off shotgun in the bag.
 Mr. von Brunn, who lived in Lebanon, N.H., at the time, told the police he wanted to take board members hostage to focus news media attention on their responsibility for high interest rates and the nation's economic difficulties. He was convicted in 1983 and served several years in prison on attempted kidnapping, burglary, assault and weapons charges.
 The Southern Poverty Law Center, a civil rights organization based in Alabama, said Wednesday that Mr. von Brunn is a racist and anti-Semite with ''a long history of associations with prominent neo-Nazis and Holocaust deniers.''
 Rabbis Marvin Hier, founder and dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, and Abraham Cooper, an associate dean, said in a statement that the attack at the museum showed ''that the cancer of hatred, bigotry and anti-Semitism is alive and well in America.'' 
 ''It is deeply disturbing that one of America's most powerful symbols of the memory of the Holocaust was selected as the site of the attack just days after President Obama accompanied Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel to the Buchenwald death camp,'' they said.
 Opened in 1993, the museum is situated near the Mall and the Potomac River. Since its dedication, it has had nearly 30 million visitors, including more than 8 million schoolchildren and 85 heads of state, the museum says on its Web site. 
 Like all public buildings in the capital, the museum has heavy security, with visitors required to pass through metal detectors. But someone determined to enter a building with a firearm can sometimes do so. In July 1998, a gunman killed two police officers and wounded a tourist in the Capitol.
 Museum officials issued a statement expressing shock and grief over Wednesday's attack and said the museum would be closed Thursday in honor of Mr. Johns.
 On Wednesday evening, President Obama issued a statement saying, in part, ''This outrageous act reminds us that we must remain vigilant against anti-Semitism and prejudice in all its forms.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Visitors to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum were kept away after the shooting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
James W. von Brunn, the suspect, was in critical condition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TALBOT COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE, VIA THE STAR DEMOCRAT)
Museum officials said it would be closed Thursday in honor of the slain guard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At least one security guard was said to have returned fire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: The museum is one of Washington's most-visited sites. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); JOURNALISM (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (64%); BURGLARY (63%); WRITERS (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (60%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN MENSA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (60%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



274 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slide on Interest Rate Concerns

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stock markets slid slightly lower on Wednesday, undoing early gains as investors worried that rising interest rates on government bonds and home mortgages could impair the broader economy. 
 Investors shied away from Treasury debt, pushing interest rates higher, amid more worries that the government's fund-raising needs would overwhelm demand in the bond markets. 
 Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 3.94 percent, from 3.86 late Tuesday, and yields on 30-year bonds touched their highest levels in a year. The price of the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, fell 22/32, to 93 10/32. 
 While interest rates on government debt are still below historical levels, they have risen sharply since the start of the year. 
 ''The risk of rising yields should not be discounted,'' Joseph Brusuelas, director at Moody'sEconomy.com, said in a note. ''If continued, they will reduce home mortgage refinancing and curtail corporate borrowing, both critical to an economic recovery.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 24.04 points, or 0.27 percent, to 8,739.02. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.28 points, or 0.38 percent, to close at 939.15, pulled lower by financial companies and retailers. Losses in technology stocks weighed down the Nasdaq, which was 7.05 points, or 0.38 percent, lower at 1,853.08. 
 Crude oil futures settled at $71.33, up $1.32 a barrel, on reports of smaller stockpiles in the United States. 
 Oil prices have also jumped this year amid signs that the declines in the economy are slowing. Gasoline prices have also risen. China has been stockpiling raw materials, including iron, copper and oil, helping to drive the Standard & Poor's GSCI, an index of global commodity prices, up 33 percent this year.
 Fears of inflation are partly behind the rapid rise in commodities prices and weakness in the bond markets, but some analysts say those concerns are overblown. Consumer demand remains low, and there is still widespread weakness in the economy, which shrank rapidly in the first quarter.
 ''Commodities are transient,'' said George Goncalves, head of fixed-income rates strategy at Cantor Fitzgerald. ''They can go up, they can go down. They're not real inflation. Real inflation comes from wage growth and a real economy that's firing on all cylinders.''
 A report on regional economies by the Federal Reserve underscored that view. The Fed's beige book said that economies in New York, Dallas, San Francisco and other Fed districts continued to lag or deteriorate this spring, but that the pace of declines was slowing in some areas.
 It was another day of wobbles for stock markets. Many stocks are no longer as cheap as they were earlier this year, when indexes skidded to 12-year lows, and some analysts say stocks may not rise much further, given lagging consumer spending and persistent economic doldrums.
 Shares of companies that make automotive parts rose, outpacing the S.& P. 500, after Chrysler signed its alliance with Fiat to end a 42-day trip through bankruptcy. 
 European shares finished up, although they were off their highs for the day. The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, was up 0.89 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London was 0.7 percent higher. The CAC 40 in Paris gained 0.4 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt added about 1.1 percent.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FUTURES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); RETAILERS (65%)

COMPANY: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



275 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: General Given Pick of Military In Afghan War

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and ERIC SCHMITT; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from New York, and Richard A. Oppel Jr. from Austin, Tex.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The new American commander in Afghanistan has been given carte blanche to handpick a dream team of subordinates, including many Special Operations veterans, as he moves to carry out an ambitious new strategy that envisions stepped-up attacks on Taliban fighters and narcotics networks. 
 The extraordinary leeway granted the commander, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, underscores a view within the administration that the war in Afghanistan has for too long been given low priority and needs to be the focus of a sustained, high-level effort. 
 General McChrystal is assembling a corps of 400 officers and soldiers who will rotate between the United States and Afghanistan for a minimum of three years. That kind of commitment to one theater of combat is unknown in the military today outside Special Operations, but reflects an approach being imported by General McChrystal, who spent five years in charge of secret commando teams in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 With his promotion approved by the Senate late on Wednesday, General McChrystal and senior members of his command team were scheduled to fly from Washington within hours of the vote, stopping in two European capitals to confer with allies before landing in Kabul, the Afghan capital.
 General McChrystal's confirmation came only after the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, went to the floor to make an impassioned plea for Republicans to allow the action to proceed, fearing that political infighting would delay approval of the appointment. He told of a phone call on Wednesday from Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
 Mr. Reid said that Admiral Mullen had told him that there was a sense of urgency that General McChrystal be able to go to Afghanistan that very night. He said that according to Admiral Mullen, ''McChrystal is literally waiting by an airplane'' to go to Afghanistan as the new commander.
 Almost a dozen senior military officers provided details about General McChrystal's plans in interviews after his nomination. The officers insisted on anonymity because of the sensitivity of the effort, and insisted that their comments not be used until the Senate vote, so as not to preempt lawmakers.
 For the first time, the American commander in Afghanistan will have a three-star deputy. Picked for the job of running day-to-day combat operations was Lt. Gen. David M. Rodriguez, who has commanded troops in both Iraq and Afghanistan. Generals McChrystal and Rodriguez have been colleagues and friends for more than 30 years, beginning when both were Ranger company commanders as young captains. 
 General McChrystal also has picked the senior intelligence adviser to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Maj. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, to join him in Kabul as director of intelligence there. In Washington, Brig. Gen. Scott Miller, a longtime Special Operations officer now assigned to the Joint Chiefs of Staff but who had served previously under General McChrystal, is now organizing a new Pakistan-Afghanistan Coordination Cell.
 Admiral Mullen said that he personally told General McChrystal that ''he could have his pick from the Joint Staff. His job, the mission he's going to command, is that important. Afghanistan is the main effort right now.''
 Just how this new team will grapple with the increasingly violent Taliban militancy in Afghanistan is unclear, although General McChrystal has said he will focus on classic counterinsurgency techniques, in particular protecting the population. 
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has asked General McChrystal to report back within 60 days of taking command with an assessment of the mission and plans for carrying out President Obama's new strategy.
 ''Success will be difficult to define but will come in reduction in I.E.D.'s, reduction in poppy, more interdiction of Taliban crossing the border, some anticorruption arrests/exiles, and greater civilian effort possible as a result of a reduction in the threat,'' said Maj. Gen. Peter Gilchrist, a retired British officer and a former deputy commander of allied forces in Afghanistan who praised General McChrystal's appointment. 
 At the Pentagon, under General McChrystal's direction, a large area of the Defense Department's underground, round-the-clock emergency operations facility -- called the National Military Command Center -- has already been shifted to the Afghan war effort. 
 The makeover in the American military command is not the only major set of personnel changes in Afghanistan. 
 The Obama administration has surrounded the new United States ambassador to Kabul, Karl W. Eikenberry, a recently retired three-star Army general, with three former ambassadors to bolster diplomatic efforts in the country. 
 Francis J. Ricciardone Jr., a former ambassador to Egypt and the Philippines, has been tapped as General Eikenberry's deputy. Earl Anthony Wayne, a former ambassador to Argentina, is heading up economic development initiatives in the embassy. Joseph A. Mussomeli, the former ambassador to Cambodia, will be an assistant ambassador in Kabul. 
 As director of intelligence on the Joint Staff, General Flynn holds a position, called the J-2, that has often been a springboard to a senior executive position across the alphabet soup of American intelligence agencies. But General Flynn, who was General McChrystal's intelligence boss at the Joint Special Operations Command, has chosen to return to the combat zone.
 In a sign of the importance being given to explaining the new strategy to Afghans, across the region and the world, General McChrystal will also be taking the first flag officer to serve as chief of public affairs and communications for the military in Afghanistan.
 Rear Adm. Gregory J. Smith, who has served as director of communications and spokesman in Iraq during the troop increase under Gen. David H. Petraeus, had been scheduled to retire this summer. But officials said he received a personal request from Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to serve in the same capacity for General McChrystal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the new American commander in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (91%); HARRY REID (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) NEVADA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



276 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Regional Economies Slip and Trade Deficit Grows

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Regional economies in the United States are still hurting or even sliding lower as the recession lingers, though the rate of decline is tapering off. Meanwhile, higher oil prices are widening the gap between the nation's imports and exports.
 Those were the conclusions of two economic reports released Wednesday, which describe an economy still stuck in recession. 
 The Commerce Department said the trade deficit grew in April for a second month. The deficit widened to $29.2 billion, from $28.5 billion in March, as falling imports leveled off slightly and exports to other countries continued to slump.
 The United States imported $150.3 billion worth of goods and services in April and exported $121.1 billion. Exports fell $2.8 billion in April from a month earlier, or 2.3 percent, and reached the lowest level since mid-2006. Imports fell a slightly smaller $2.2 billion.
 Imports of crude oil rose $1 billion for the month, although the total value of crude oil imports is down sharply this year from 2008. The United States also imported more consumer goods like pharmaceuticals, gems, jewelry and televisions.
 The country's exports of airplanes, industrial machines, automobiles and consumer goods fell for the month.
 The balance of trade was roughly in line with economists' expectations. 
 ''The collapse in the global economy seems to be ending,'' said James O'Sullivan, senior economist at UBS. ''The global economy's just not plunging the way it was. You're not seeing outright growth yet, but it does look like the rate of decline has faded significantly.''
 Even with crude oil prices crossing $70 as the global economy struggles to right itself, the trade deficit is nowhere near the monthly imbalances of more than $60 billion last year, when oil crested at $145 a barrel and gasoline cost more than $4 a gallon. But economists expect that the gap between imports and exports will continue to grow if oil heads higher.
 As the financial crisis erupted in the autumn, trade between the United States and the rest of the world plummeted, and the trade deficit narrowed sharply as oil prices crumbled, demand for foreign-made goods dried up and consumers began to save money they once spent freely.
 In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said some businesses and retailers were becoming more optimistic, even as the overall health of regional economies ''remained weak or deteriorated further'' from mid-April to May. 
 The Fed's June beige book, a regular yardstick of local economies in a dozen Fed districts from New York to St. Louis to San Francisco, described widespread economic weakness, offset by kernels of hope. 
 In the Cleveland district, manufacturers predicted that demand this year would be lower than last, and said they continued to cut jobs and reduce capital spending. Commercial real estate and development remained abysmal in different parts of the country as vacancies rose and credit stayed tight. Tourism spending fell in the Atlanta district. The Chicago Fed reported that construction was weak and that property values fell.
 But some manufacturers reported a slightly better outlook. Home sales bounced back in some markets. Import and export traffic brightened elsewhere. And some parts of the country even said the abysmal job market was leveling out or improving slightly.
 Retailers in the Boston district were ''cautiously optimistic'' about an economic recovery, the Fed said, while those in the Philadelphia region expected sales to ''gain strength slowly.'' Employers in the New York district expect job losses to level off in coming months. 
 Although businesses and others in five of the 12 Fed districts said the sharp pace of economic decline was tapering off, that does not represent much improvement since April, when the beige book noted similar moderation in five of the 12 districts. And even those that were more hopeful ''do not see a substantial increase in economic activity'' this year.
 The economy shrank at an annual pace of 5.7 percent during the first three months as businesses cut their costs and consumers slashed their spending in response to the financial crisis last year on Wall Street. Many economists expect the economy to contract more and more slowly before it begins to grow slightly toward the end of the year.
 ''While the rate of decline in economic output has slowed, there have been very few, if any, signs of an overall turnaround in consumer spending, business investment and the economy at large,'' Dan Greenhaus, an analyst in the equity strategy group at Miller Tabak & Company, wrote in a note. ''Stabilization, at some point, becomes stagnation.''
 The Fed said that retail spending was still shaky, and that consumers seeking to stretch their budgets continued to shop for bargains and avoid luxury purchases. Discounters reported an uptick in sales -- mirroring reports of strong sales at stores like Wal-Mart -- while luxury hotels suffered.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: ECONOMIC WEAKNESS ACROSS THE COUNTRY: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed Wednesday. Based on information collected on or before June 1.: MINNEAPOLIS Activity dropped in consumer spending, services, residential construction and real estate, agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The energy and mining sectors noted sharp declines. SAN FRANCISCO Economic activity slowed, with some signs of stabilizing. ''Upward price pressures remained modest over all, and upward wage pressures were largely absent.'' CHICAGO Consumer spending decreased and the pace of business spending slowed. Construction activity continued to be weak, although residential real estate conditions showed improvement. CLEVELAND Economic activity weakened, with reports from factories showing an appreciable decline in production and new orders. Residential construction remained weak. BOSTON Business contacts report a decline in sales or orders from a year earlier. Manufacturers say they are cutting capital spending, employment or hours, and compensation. NEW YORK The region shows ''signs of stabilizing since the last report, though some sectors continued to weaken.'' The labor market remained exceptionally weak. PHILADELPHIA The economy activity continued at a slow rate in May. Manufacturers, on balance, reported declines in shipments and new orders. Retailers gave mixed sales reports. RICHMOND, VA. The economy remained sluggish, though there were scattered positive reports. Manufacturers reported a rise in demand as new orders and shipments grew. ATLANTA Economic activity continued to contract in late April and May, although the pace of decline had moderated in some industries and most noted that their outlook had improved. ST. LOUIS The economy weakened, with manufacturing and service sector activity decreasing. Retail and auto sales were down from a year ago. KANSAS CITY, MO. The regional economy declined at a slower pace in April and May with firmer expectations of improvement going forward. Consumer spending remained soft. DALLAS Economic conditions remained weak from mid-April to late May, but there were increased reports of stabilization. Contacts in several industries said demand had improved slightly. (Source: Bloomberg)
 BALANCE OF TRADE: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (94%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); RETAILERS (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); LAYOFFS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



277 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Despite Odds, Cities Race to Bet on Biotech

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: KANNAPOLIS, N.C. 

 BODY:
Where a textile mill once drove the economy of this blue-collar town northeast of Charlotte, an imposing neoclassical complex is rising, filled with fine art, Italian marble and multimillion-dollar laboratory equipment. Three buildings, one topped by a giant dome, form the beginnings of what has been nicknamed the Biopolis, a research campus dedicated to biotechnology.
 At $500 million and counting, the Biopolis, officially called the North Carolina Research Campus, is a product of a national race to attract the biotechnology industry, a current grail of economic development. 
 Cities like Shreveport, La., and Huntsville, Ala., are also gambling millions in taxpayer dollars on if-we-build-it-they-will-come research parks and wet laboratories, which hold the promise of low-pollution workplaces and high salaries. 
 At a recent global biotech convention in Atlanta, 27 states, including Hawaii and Oklahoma, paid as much as $100,000 each to entice companies on the exhibition floor. All this for a highly risky industry that has turned a profit only one year in the past four decades.
 Skeptics cite two major problems with the race for biotech. First, the industry is highly concentrated in established epicenters like Boston, San Diego and San Francisco, which offer not just scientific talent but also executives who know how to steer drugs through the arduous approval process. 
 ''Most of these states probably don't stand much of a chance to develop a viable biotech industry,'' said Gary P. Pisano, a Harvard Business School professor and the author of ''Science Business: The Promise, the Reality and the Future of Biotech.''
 ''You can always get a few top people,'' Mr. Pisano said, ''but you need a lot of critical mass.''
 Second, biotech is a relatively tiny industry with a lengthy product-development process, and even in its largest clusters offers only a fraction of the jobs of traditional manufacturing. In the United States, only 43 biotechnology companies employ more than 1,000 people, according to BioAbility, a consulting firm in the Research Triangle Park in North Carolina.
 There is no guarantee that if a blockbuster drug materialized, it would be manufactured and marketed in the same place it was developed and tested. 
 Joseph Cortright, an economist who has studied biotechnology clusters, gave the example of a promising anti-leukemia compound developed at Oregon Health Sciences University in Portland, where Mr. Cortright is based. ''The economic impact in the Portland area is zero because the rights to manufacture and market this drug were owned already by Novartis,'' Mr. Cortright said. 
 But the race continues. 
 The state of Florida and Palm Beach County used $510 million as bait for a research institute that will employ 545 people (and, officials project, spur the creation of 46,000 more jobs over 15 years). New York City has invested more than $45 million in bioscience infrastructure, and Kentucky matches federal research grants dollar for dollar. 
 Cities like Shreveport, where public and private money have built the InterTech Science Park, remain steadfastly optimistic, though a biotechnology manufacturing center at the park was occupied for only six months in 2001 before the tenant went under. 
 The building remains an asset, said Dennis Lower, the park director. The private sector's willingness to invest in it helped persuade the state to invest $15 million in a second building. ''Right now we have four companies that are interested in that building,'' Mr. Lower said. ''Three times in the last three years we have almost had a tenant in that building.''
 Some economic development officials say the value of a biotech cluster cannot be calculated in dollars alone. 
 Larry Pelton, president of the Economic Development Council of St. Lucie County, Fla., said the millions that the state spent attracting the Scripps Research Institute to Palm Beach County started a chain reaction that brought a branch of the Torrey Pines Institute for Molecular Studies to Port St. Lucie. 
 The institute received state and local incentives worth $32 million, plus a building and land. That helped St. Lucie County, which has grown quickly and needed more hospital beds, persuade Martin Memorial Health Systems to build a 300-bed hospital, Mr. Pelton said. 
 The county's research institutes have also enhanced science and math education and spurred creation of a charter school, he said.
 To build a viable biotech cluster, some areas have expanded the traditional definition of the industry beyond genetics to biofuels, agriculture, medical devices -- even bioterrorism research. 
 A good strategy capitalizes on a city's existing strength, said Patrick Kelly, the vice president of state government relations for the Biotechnology Industry Organization, whether it is the presence of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, a highly educated work force in Huntsville, or experience running clinical trials in the Research Triangle. 
 In Kannapolis, the focus is on food and nutrition, not because of any expertise, but because of David H. Murdock, the health-obsessed billionaire who first envisioned the Biopolis.
 To attract seven of the state's universities, including Duke and the University of North Carolina, Mr. Murdock, a real estate developer and owner of the Dole Food Company, persuaded the state to invest almost $30 million a year in rent and operating expenses. Local officials approved the sale of $168 million in bonds to pay for infrastructure improvements around the 350-acre campus -- up considerably from an original estimate of $7 million, said John D. Day, the Cabarrus County manager. 
 Mr. Murdock says he has spent half a billion so far on buildings, recruiting scientists, and equipment that includes the most powerful nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer in the United States, which can help to study molecules.
 Though the buildings are still half-empty and construction is slower than anticipated, the campus has attracted senior scientists like Mary Ann Lila, who left the University of Illinois to head the Plants for Human Health Institute, a North Carolina State University effort. Dr. Lila says she has had inquiries from scientists worldwide.
 But some critics say the Biopolis is largely a real estate venture that can only increase the value of hundreds of additional acres Mr. Murdock owns in the area. 
 ''It's a single large developer, with substantial deep pockets, with a very specific agenda that doesn't necessarily align with the interests of the state,'' said Doug Baker, the chief executive officer of Kryosphere, a Research Triangle company that stores biological specimens. 
 Mr. Baker, whose company is considering expanding to Kannapolis, said the Biopolis could end up as an attractive, saleable asset for Mr. Murdock at the expense of other biotechnology clusters across the state.
 ''It's a very large mall,'' Mr. Baker said. ''I don't see the organic qualities.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A caption with an article on Thursday about the biotechnology industry misidentified two people and omitted the name of another pictured at the Bio International Convention last month in Atlanta. The man on the left, who was not identified in the caption, was Clyde Higgs, who works in the biotech industry. Second from left was Michael A. Luther, who also works in biotech -- not Mr. Higgs. Third from left was J. Keith Crisco, North Carolina's secretary of commerce -- not Mr. Luther. (Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia, on the right, was identified correctly.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clyde Higgs, standing at left, and Michael A. Luther, who work in biotech in North Carolina, with Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia last month at the Bio International Convention in Atlanta. The industry is a focus of many economic development plans.
 Wyeth, the pharmaceuticals company, used a model of a double helix to attract the attention of convention visitors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); APPROVALS (65%); LEUKEMIA (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (51%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (51%); NOVN (SWX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%)

PERSON: SONNY PERDUE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (85%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (57%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (85%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



278 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Videos Reveal Sotomayor's Positions on Affirmative Action and Other Issues

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Judge Sonia Sotomayor once described herself as ''a product of affirmative action'' who was admitted to two Ivy League schools despite scoring lower on standardized tests than many classmates, which she attributed to ''cultural biases'' that are ''built into testing.'' 
 On another occasion, she aligned with conservatives who take a limited view of when international law can be enforced in American courts. But she criticized conservative objections to recent Supreme Court rulings that mention foreign law as being based on a ''misunderstanding.'' 
 Those comments were among a trove of videos dating back nearly 25 years that shed new light on Judge Sotomayor's views. She provided the videos to the Senate Judiciary Committee last week as it prepares for her Supreme Court confirmation hearing next month. 
 The clips include lengthy remarks about her experiences as an ''affirmative action baby'' whose lower test scores were overlooked by admissions committees at Princeton University and Yale Law School because, she said, she is Hispanic and had grown up in poor circumstances. 
 ''If we had gone through the traditional numbers route of those institutions, it would have been highly questionable if I would have been accepted,'' she said on a panel of three female judges from New York who were discussing women in the judiciary. The video is dated ''early 1990s'' in Senate records. 
 Her comments came in the context of explaining why she thought it was ''critical that we promote diversity'' by appointing more women and members of minorities as judges, and they provoked objections among other panelists who pointed out that she had graduated summa cum laude from Princeton and been an editor on Yale's law journal. 
 But Judge Sotomayor insisted that her test scores were sub-par -- ''though not so far off the mark that I wasn't able to succeed at those institutions.'' Her scores have not been made public. 
 ''With my academic achievement in high school, I was accepted rather readily at Princeton and equally as fast at Yale, but my test scores were not comparable to that of my classmates,'' she said. ''And that's been shown by statistics, there are reasons for that. There are cultural biases built into testing, and that was one of the motivations for the concept of affirmative action to try to balance out those effects.''
 Judge Sotomayor's approach to affirmative action has been the subject of intense scrutiny. Conservatives have criticized her remarks in speeches that her personal experiences will influence her judging, and they have focused on her vote to uphold a decision by New Haven to throw out results from a firefighters' exam because not enough members of minorities scored well.
 In the program, Judge Sotomayor also rejected the proposition that minorities must become advocates of ''selection by merit alone.'' She said diversity improved the legal system -- like having a Hispanic judge in a case where a litigant and his family is Hispanic, and who can translate what is happening into Spanish. 
 ''Since I have difficulty defining merit and what merit alone means, and in any context, whether it's judicial or otherwise, I accept that different experiences in and of itself, bring merit to the system,'' she said, adding, ''I think it brings to the system more of a sense of fairness when these litigants see people like myself on the bench.'' 
 Judge Sotomayor also mentioned her personal involvement in challenging testing in a 1994 interview. Reflecting on her 12 years on the board of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense Fund before she became a judge, she recalled helping change its policy focus from voting rights and bilingual education to economic issues, like ''cases attacking civil service testing and issues of union admissions.''
 If she is confirmed, Judge Sotomayor would fill the seat being vacated by Justice David H. Souter, who has voted to uphold affirmative-action programs.
 But in April 2009, Judge Sotomayor delivered a speech on how federal judges look at foreign and international law that suggested she might take a more conservative position on that topic than Justice Souter.
 She said that individuals had no right to file a lawsuit to enforce a treaty and that ratified treaties were not legally binding unless Congress separately passed a statute to do so. Treaties usually have effect, she said, only if the president and Congress choose to respect such obligations as a matter of politics, not law.
 ''Even though Article IV of the Constitution says that treaties are the 'supreme law of the land,' in most instances they're not even law,'' she said.
 That principle, she said, explained the outcome of a high-profile 2008 Supreme Court ruling, Medellin v. Texas, which involved an International Court of Justice ruling that some Mexican inmates on death row in Texas should get new sentencing hearings because the authorities failed to help them get help from the Mexican Consulate, contrary to a treaty the United States had ratified.
 But the Supreme Court ruled that the international court's decision had no legal force and that the treaty was not binding, because Congress never passed a statute explicitly making it domestic law. 
 The ruling, Judge Sotomayor said, ''surprised many human rights groups and civil liberties groups'' but was ''premised on very traditional American law principles.''
 Her remarks aligned her with the Supreme Court's majority; among the three dissenting votes in that case was Justice Souter.
 Still, Judge Sotomayor also criticized conservative attacks on Supreme Court decisions in recent terms that mentioned foreign law -- including decisions striking down the death penalty for juveniles and striking down a Texas law barring sodomy. 
 ''In both those cases the courts were very, very careful to note that they weren't using that law to decide the American question,'' she said. ''They were just using that law to help us understand what the concepts meant to other countries, and to help us understand whether our understanding of our own constitutional rights fell into the mainstream of human thinking.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judge Sonia Sotomayor met Wednesday with Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (79%); SUPREME COURTS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (91%); JOE LIEBERMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



279 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: To Your Left, A Better Way of Life?

BYLINE: By CHRIS COLIN

 BODY:
VICKI SETZER and her cats inhabit a small ranch home on a quiet cul-de-sac in Visalia, Calif. Connie Baechler leases a split-level house in Smyrna, Ga., with her fiance. Perfectly typical nesting arrangements, and yet something profound seemed to be missing.
 So on a Saturday morning in the East Bay area of California, they and about 17 others boarded a rumbling white tour bus to try to find a mode of living better suited to the times.
 The tour was one of several this season in different parts of the country designed to give participants an up-close look at various co-housing communities, and to address an increasingly common feeling that one pays too much for one's home, sees friends too little there and generally lives a more isolated life than is desirable. These are not new complaints, but the recession has sharpened them, as it has thrown all large expenditures under deeper scrutiny. 
 Remedial questions are permitted on these tours, like, ''What is co-housing?'' 
 The Cohousing Association of the United States has been answering that question quite frequently as more people sign up for its tours: The communities consist of individual houses whose residents share some common space, a few communal dinners a week and a commitment to green living. 
 The movement has been gaining momentum here since it first arrived from Denmark two decades ago. But passengers on the bus tours describe the general climate of uncertainty as setting off more urgent waves of reappraisal: Is this how I want to raise my family? Spend my remaining years? Is there a better option -- a more stable community?
 Judy Pope, a consultant in Oakland, Calif., who joined the East Bay tour, described a practical interest in co-housing. 
 ''I had a pretty robust portfolio of investments that I was going to retire on,'' Ms. Pope said. ''Now I'm feeling the financial pressure to live with people. I can't continue to live in my big old house.''
 In some cases, the closeness of these communities offers bulwarks against a lousy economy. Residents speak of lending money to one another when necessary or, say, pitching in to build a wheelchair ramp when insurance might not cover it. Then there is the savings associated with a more efficiently designed home, and shared upkeep costs. But strictly speaking, a home in a co-housing community doesn't necessarily cost less than a traditional home. As advocates describe it, the benefits are of the added-value variety.
 ''You just get more bang for your buck,'' said Laura Fitch, a 15-year co-houser who led a recent tour in Massachusetts. ''You can have entertainment next door rather than going to the movies, and if you're a parent, you don't have to drive to all those play dates, or even buy as many toys because your kids are more entertained.''
 She added that the price of co-housing often included a common house with guest rooms, a party space, a children's play area and the security of people watching out for one another.
 Jason Reichert, who works at a shipyard in Maine and joined a New England tour, said he liked the idea of weathering the country's economic and environmental crises with a group. 
 ''My grandparents' community got through the Depression by being very close-knit,'' Mr. Reichert said, ''with one family knowing how to farm, for example, and another knowing how to raise poultry. We've lost that. But co-housing is accomplishing something similar.''
 Craig Ragland, the executive director of the Cohousing Association, said: ''Some people are looking at these communities as a lifeboat. The thinking is, if I'm surrounded by people who care about me, I'm less likely to crash and burn.''
 More than 115 rural, urban and suburban co-housing communities exist across the country, consisting of 2,675 units, according to the association. There are 3 to 67 homes in each, on tiny city lots and 550-acre parcels. Some are ''retrofit'' communities, in which existing side-by-side homes are purchased and then converted. Others start with a piece of land and build units from scratch. In both, residents own their homes outright, but agree to participate in the communal arrangement.
 The Cohousing Association has sponsored these tours for about a decade. For $105, participants get a box lunch, an enthusiastic guide or two and an eight-hour tour of various communities.
 The recent East Bay trip was led by Jennifer West and Neil Planchon, both residents of local co-housing communities. The people who convened that Saturday lived alone or with families, ranged from 30-something to 60-something and came from Colorado and Vancouver, Georgia and California. 
 As rolling adventures go, the trip had the esprit de corps of Ken Kesey's psychedelic bus and the hands-in-laps manners of a sightseeing tour. Between stops, passengers talked about how they ended up on this atypical excursion.
 Ms. Baechler from Georgia presented a familiar gripe. ''I like my neighbors back home, but we don't really have a community that gets together and talks,'' she said. ''So I end up driving 20 miles to have dinner with a friend after work.'' 
 She added: ''I guess there's always Facebook, but I want to be sitting next to a three-dimensional person. With co-housing, we'd be able to converge just yards from where we live.''
 Paul Hadley, 35, is a freelance French-horn player and stay-at-home dad in Santa Rosa, Calif. He and his wife, Judy, a chemical engineer, live with their 2-year-old in a three-bedroom house on a country road that has become a busy thoroughfare. Co-housing, Mr. Hadley said, seemed to offer a return to village life, without all the cars. He and his wife were seeking ''a richer life of relationships, not stuff,'' he said.
 The bus steamed along, periodically disgorging passengers to stumble through people's happy homes. Parents on the tour watched as children ran from unit to unit, no supervision required. Devotees of sustainability listened to tales of shared resources and reduced footprints. Those keen on intergenerational living saw residents of all ages mingling casually. For the design conscious, there was an intelligent flow that encouraged serendipitous meetings while still preserving privacy.
 ''For a long time we'd always be referred to as 'communes for the '90s' or 'the new commune,' '' said Mr. Ragland of the Cohousing Association. ''But increasingly people are seeing that it's really just a new type of neighborhood.''
 Karen Hester, who lives in the Temescal Creek community, the fifth stop of the day, answered questions about daily life in co-housing. ''It's not about utopia,'' she said. ''It's fundamentally a pragmatic thing. When my computer crashes, my neighbor is over in five minutes to fix it. In turn, maybe his kids come home from school sick and I'm there to take care of them.''
 The tour put the group in a kind of envy daze. At Temescal Commons, originally formed by members of a nearby Methodist church, photovoltaic roof panels let the residents sell power back to the utility company. At Pleasant Hill, children sold lemonade in a bright patch of shared grass. 
 But Ms. West and Mr. Planchon were clear that co-housing presented challenges, too. Ms. West recounted a heated episode at her community where someone didn't receive a party invitation. They also spoke of meeting fatigue, a byproduct of reaching decisions via consensus model, and the surprisingly volatile matter of pets.
 Do the tours win people over? Some, like Ms. Baechler, came away with reservations -- she thought she might hold out for a community focused on the arts. But mostly the groups leave ecstatic, fingers nearly on checkbooks. 
 Delina Malo-Juvera, 36, lives in a 19th-century farmhouse in rural Maine. After the Massachusetts tour, she said she hoped to one day start a co-housing group of her own. ''The economy and the state of the world -- you don't know what's going to happen, so it'd be great to have that secure, self-sustaining community,'' she said. ''I loved it.'' 
 For her part, Ms. Setzer, the cul-de-sac dweller from Visalia, said that the idea of joining a multigenerational community might be the most appealing aspect -- and that she didn't mind how few people were aware of the existence of this vaguely Norman Rockwellian lifestyle.
 ''I told my son about co-housing, and he thought I was a Martian,'' Ms. Setzer said. ''Then again, he often thinks that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GET ON THE BUS: Touring Temescal Creek co-housing in Oakland, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW KELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
COME TOGETHER: Participants on a California tour looked at Temescal Creek co-housing in Oakland, top left, and children playing in a communal yard at Doyle Street in Emeryville. In Massachusetts, members of a tour group had lunch together at Mosaic Commons in Berlin, left, and Julia Negele gardened at Jamaica Plain in Boston. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE AND LEFT, DREW KELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW AND BOTTOM LEFT, RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.) (pg.D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



280 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Great Caesar's Ghost! Are Traditional History Courses Vanishing?

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
To the pessimists evidence that the field of diplomatic history is on the decline is everywhere. Job openings on the nation's college campuses are scarce, while bread-and-butter courses like the Origins of War and American Foreign Policy are dropping from history department postings. And now, in what seems an almost gratuitous insult, Diplomatic History, the sole journal devoted to the subject, has proposed changing its title.
 For many in the field this latest suggestion is emblematic of a broader problem: the shrinking importance not only of diplomatic history but also of traditional specialties like economic, military and constitutional history.
 The future of the history profession (as well as the journal's title) are the subject of a roundtable discussion to be held this month at the annual convention of the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations. Many historians ''are on the defensive,'' said Thomas W. Zeiler, the executive editor of Diplomatic History and the moderator of the panel. (Mr. Zeiler, who floated the name change, said he did not have a particular replacement in mind.) 
 To Mr. Zeiler there is no doubt that the days when diplomatic history dominated the profession are gone. Fewer traditional courses in the subject are taught, fewer articles are published in refereed journals, and graduate student training has changed. Nonetheless Mr. Zeiler is not as worried as some of his colleagues. The shift does not necessarily mean students aren't learning the material, he noted, but rather that a new approach to teaching it has developed.
 The shift in focus began in the late 1960s and early '70s, when a generation of academics began looking into the roles of people generally missing from history books -- women, minorities, immigrants, workers. Social and cultural history, often referred to as bottom-up history, offered fresh subjects. Diplomatic historians, by contrast, generally work from the top down, diving into official archives and concentrating on people in power, an approach often tagged as elitist and old-fashioned. 
 Over the last three decades the number of history faculty members at four-year institutions has more than doubled to 20,000-plus, said Robert B. Townsend, assistant director for research at the American Historical Association. Yet the growth has been predominantly in the newer specializations, spurring those in diplomatic, military, legal and economic history to complain they are being squeezed out.
 In 1975, for example, three-quarters of college history departments employed at least one diplomatic historian; in 2005 fewer than half did. The number of departments with an economic historian fell to 31.7 percent from 54.7 percent. By contrast the biggest gains were in women's history, which now has a representative in four out of five history departments.
 How have some departments sliced up the pie? At the University of Wisconsin, Madison, out of the 45 history faculty members listed (many with overlapping interests), one includes diplomatic history as a specialty, one other lists American foreign policy; 13 name either gender, race or ethnicity. Of the 12 American-history professors at Brown University, the single specialist in United States empire also lists political and cultural history as areas of interest. The department's professor of international studies focuses on victims of genocide.
 ''The boomer generation made a decision in the 1960s that history was starting over,'' said David Kaiser, a history professor at the Naval War College. ''It was an overreaction to a terrible mistake that was the Vietnam War.'' The result is that ''history is no longer focused on government, politics or institutions.''
 There are no reliable statistics on course offerings, but Mr. Kaiser and others argue there has been an obvious nosedive. ''European diplomacy is just about completely dead,'' Mr. Kaiser said, ''and it's very hard to find a course on the origins of the First World War.''
 During a recent spirited online discussion among diplomatic historians prompted by the journal's proposed name change, Brett Lintott, a first-year Ph.D. student in international relations at the University of Toronto, wrote of feeling a bit like the last woolly mammoth at the end of the Ice Age. ''Being a young historian in this field is thus a rather lonely and sobering experience,'' he wrote, adding that some historians treat his chosen specialty with ''genuine derision.''
 Though such debates are often cast in political terms (teaching the ''history of dead white men'' versus the history of neglected or oppressed people), the question is really more philosophical and pedagogical: How does the world work? How should students be taught? 
 Of course academic disciplines, like finches, evolve all the time. ''This is not about one field being shoved aside and another taking its place but about the natural evolution of a field,'' said William I. Hitchcock, a diplomatic historian at Temple University whose book about the liberation of Europe, ''The Bitter Road to Freedom,'' was recently a Pulitzer Prize finalist.
 In traditional fields like diplomatic history, nations provide the organizing principle, they are the basic building blocks, he explained. Pressing issues today like terrorism, global warming, infectious diseases, population growth, piracy, intellectual property, by contrast, don't easily fit into a box with a single country's name on it. 
 So students still study, say, World War I and the cold war, but while a traditional class would focus on the actions and statements of presidents and secretaries of state, a newer approach might look at how the imperial powers treated their colonies in the Middle East or how Soviet propaganda that tried to tarnish democracy by pointing to racism in America may have contributed to President Harry S. Truman's decision to integrate the armed forces.
 Anthony Grafton, a historian at Princeton whose expertise includes the history of scholarship, agrees that traditional fields aren't disappearing, they are shifting focus. Military history, for example, has switched from battlefield strategy to subjects like ''the way soldiers thought about what they were fighting for,'' he said.
 But critics like David A. Bell, the dean of faculty at Johns Hopkins University, argue that traditional diplomatic and economic history are still the specialties that are best suited to deal with America's problems today. 
 Simply giving everyone a place at the table is just not affordable in an era of shrinking resources. ''I'd love to let a hundred flowers bloom,'' said Alonzo L. Hamby, a history professor at Ohio University in Athens, but ''it's hard for all but the largest departments or the richest.'' In his own department of about 30 faculty members, a military historian recently retired, triggering a vigorous debate over how to advertise for a replacement. (A handful of faculty members had the view that ''military history is evil,'' Mr. Hamby said.) The department finally agreed to post a listing for a specialist in ''U.S. and the world,'' he said, ''the sort of mushy description that could allow for a lot of possibilities.''
 Mr. Hitchcock of Temple University remains unconvinced that there is a zero-sum game however. ''How will we write the history of the Iraq war?'' he asked. Social pressures, differing cultural and intellectual assumptions will all be included, he said: ''We'll widen our frame of reference, while not losing sight of the remarkable fact that a very small number of people still have the power to lead nations into war.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Which History?: Though the overall number of faculty members in every specialty has increased since 1975, a smaller share of history departments have specialists in intellectual, diplomatic or economic history. Meanwhile, a greater portion of departments cover fields like women's history or cultural history. (Source: American Historical Association) (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (68%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



281 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Savings for Small Business in Health Plan

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
As Washington debates an overhaul of health care, many small businesses are vehemently opposed to the idea of requiring employers to help pay for their workers' medical coverage. 
 But at least one small-business group says the proposals now being considered by the Obama administration and Senate leaders could save small companies tens of billions of dollars a year in health care costs -- even if there is a mandate for employer coverage. 
 An analysis by the group, the nonprofit Small Business Majority, to be released Thursday, concludes that the changes would be better for small employers than continuing the current system, which leaves many of those businesses struggling to afford health benefits for their workers. Half of companies with nine or fewer workers do not currently provide employee coverage. 
 ''Small businesses want to be part of the system,'' said John Arensmeyer, the group's chief executive. ''They don't want to shirk their responsibilities.'' But ''we need comprehensive reform,'' he added. ''The entire system needs to be fixed.'' 
 Founded in 2005 by executives of small companies who wanted to broaden the small-business discussion about health reform, the group was among those recently invited to the White House to discuss the issues. Mr. Arensmeyer said any mandatory coverage requirements would have to address the inability of some businesses to pay for the contributions. ''This doesn't work in the short term without some assistance to the smallest and least profitable businesses,'' he said.
 The analysis, conducted by Jonathan Gruber, an M.I.T. economist who helped advise Massachusetts on its overhaul of health insurance, examines proposals being discussed by the Senate Finance Committee and others in which small companies would have to pay some portion of their payroll toward health benefits but would also receive some form of tax credits to defray the expense. 
 Small businesses would save in two major ways, Mr. Gruber said. Because small companies traditionally pay much more than large corporations for the same coverage for an employee, they would benefit from proposals streamlining the purchase of insurance and lowering the administrative expenses associated with the policies. The companies, he said, would also benefit from the success of any legislative efforts to contain the rapidly escalating cost of health care.
 Over all, the study estimates that the proposals under debate could save small businesses anywhere from $546 billion to $855 billion over the next decade. 
 If nothing is done, on the other hand, the study says the health care bill for small businesses -- estimated at $156 billion this year -- would more than double, to $339 billion in 2018. 
 But some small-business groups still worry that the proposals now being floated could do more harm than good.
 The National Federation of Independent Business, an association of small companies, says many of its members do not favor forcing companies to pay a significant share of the cost of employee health coverage. 
 Susan Eckerly, senior vice president of federal public policy for the federation, said her group was concerned that the proposed measures could fail to contain the high costs of medical care, which she said was a main concern for small businesses. 
 ''Adding new, additional burdens to small-business owners -- especially in the form of an expensive mandate -- is not an effective approach to reform,'' Ms. Eckerly said. ''In fact, it burdens the very people we are supposed to be trying to help.'' 
 Reducing overall costs is a critical piece of any proposal, Mr. Arensmeyer agreed. ''Nobody wants anyone to pay into a broken system.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Arensmeyer, chief of the Small Business Majority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); TAX LAW (72%); NEW ISSUES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



282 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Look Who's Shopping Goodwill

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
GRACE BELLO clutched her prize to her chest. ''This Marc Jacobs dress is making my day -- I need it,'' she said. At that moment, Jim DePaolis, a sales associate, raced toward her with a Diane Von Furstenberg frock in one hand and a black cocktail dress in the other. 
 Ms. Bello held up the little black dress, assessing its charms, as Mr. DePaolis began courting her in earnest: ''I'm seeing a little retro '60s girl,'' he said. Next, he produced a punkish satin gown that bristled with safety pins, urging Ms. Bello to ''imagine this with a pair of motorcycle boots.''
A style-struck pair, Ms. Bello, a writer, and Mr. DePaolis, who has worked for Banana Republic, might have been haunting some Manhattan citadel of chic -- Jeffrey in the meatpacking district or Barneys on Madison Avenue. In fact they were in Chelsea, spelunking for treasures at the Goodwill store on West 25th Street. 
 The 5,500-square-foot thrift outlet is a laboratory of sorts for Goodwill and its 2,200 stores around the country. Intent on sprucing up an image that conjures low-end castoffs and no-frills ambience, many Goodwill stores are courting the shoppers who scour high-end resale shops and department store sales racks for bargains. 
 ''We are making a particularly strong push right now to improve our image, our reputation and our brand, to promote Goodwill as a cool place to shop,'' said Jim Gibbons, the chief executive for Goodwill Industries International in Rockville, Md.
 Many Goodwill stores have increased the size of their sales floors to display goods more generously, Mr. Gibbons said, rather than turning them out jumble-sale-style. Shoppers expecting a traditional thrift store might be surprised to enter one of Goodwill's free-standing ''boutiques'' in cities including Milwaukee; Palm Beach, Fla.; and Portland, Ore., which offer daily deliveries of donated designer goods and department store labels in the manner of a fast-fashion chain like H & M. 
 Other special items are featured online in Goodwill auction and shopping sites, and some stores have even staged fashion shows.
 ''We have embraced a more traditional retail strategy,'' said Mauricio Hernandez, a senior vice president for Goodwill of Greater of New York and Northern New Jersey. 
 With some success, it seems. In a tough economy, it is probably no surprise that Goodwill stores are thriving, as shopper at all levels trade down. Even middle-class consumers now ''look for extreme values,'' including at secondhand stores, said Jeff Van Sinderen, a retail analyst at B. Riley, a Los Angeles research and investment firm.
 Sales at Goodwill stores open at least a year rose 7.1 percent in the first three months of 2009 over the same period a year earlier. 
 At least some of that growth can be attributed to its efforts to enhance its image and merchandising, which began several years ago and has been accelerating. Some shops have undergone face-lifts, from the lighting to the use of mannequins. Others have increased traffic through television and print advertising, shopping Web sites, social-media marketing and promotional events that appear to be attracting the kinds of trophy hunters who trawl for bargains at stores like Nordstrom or Wal-Mart. 
 ''The fact that we're seeing more of those people when there are other shopping options could at least in part be attributed to marketing,'' said Brendan Hurley, vice president for marketing and communication at the Goodwill of Greater Washington. 
 FOUNDED by a Methodist minister in 1902, Goodwill operates as a loose confederation of 160 independent regional agencies in North America. Today it has no church affiliation. Each chapter follows guidelines set down by the parent group, and each is free to pursue marketing strategies tailored to its region.
 Sales at the nine Washington-area stores, for example, increased this spring by 5 percent, partly as a result of the organization's effort to recast itself as a source of vintage and high-end fashions for young professional women. Last year, the Washington chapter hired Em Hall, a Web marketing specialist, to blog about stylish merchandise in its stores. It also uploaded a video of its annual fashion show to fashionofgoodwill.com, its Web site. ''We thought we could learn from Victoria's Secret, which was doing virtual fashion shows online,'' Mr. Hurley said.
 Across the country, Goodwill is competing for shoppers with a keener eye and sometimes deeper pockets. A few stores are adjusting prices accordingly. The many who think of the brand as a graveyard for no-name castoffs would be surprised -- or dismayed -- to find a Prada bag marked at $200 and climbing at auction on a Goodwill Web site, or a Pucci shirt for $800. 
 This is not to say the group has abandoned its low-income customers. Clothing prices typically range from about $7 to $20. Selective price hikes, however, support the nonprofit's core mission: Goodwill says that about 84 percent of its revenues go into job training for the disabled and other programs. 
 Mr. Hernandez said he is seeking ''more brand-aware managers'' equipped to recognize (and, to some degree, exploit) the market value of luxury labels. ''In the past we have been a little taken aback to find out the original store value of a Chanel jacket that we might carry,'' he said. ''Now we set prices in a way that the market will determine,'' at roughly 10 to 15 percent of the original cost. 
 Goodwill of Akron, Ohio, published an annual report formatted in the style of a fashion magazine. Retique, a free-standing Goodwill boutique in Milwaukee, sent a direct mailing to customers in the trendy Third Ward district. ''They are shoppers with more disposable income,'' explained Vicki Holschuh, a vice president at Goodwill of Southern Wisconsin. ''They typically would not have been in our stores before.'' 
 The Milwaukee boutique displays its most covetable wares on mannequins. ''We're seeing a lot of people stretching their dollar specifically for name brands and fashion forward items,'' said Cheryl Lightholder, a spokeswoman for Goodwill of Southern Wisconsin. ''We set up the boutique to highlight those.'' 
 Although the Goodwill store on Third Avenue and East 122nd Street in Manhattan has yet to segregate designer brands like some of its sister shops (a Vera Wang gown was marked last week at $9.99), it highlights some in its windows. Repeat customers are also being notified of sales. ''It's a personalization of services similar to Saks,'' said Mr. Hernandez of the New York-New Jersey Goodwill chapter. 
 In San Francisco, Goodwill shops are ''marketing to recessionistas,'' said James David, a spokesman. Before donations are shipped to different stores, they are photographed. ''If something catches our eye -- say an Armani button-down shirt -- it's going to head down to one of our better boutiques,'' he said. 
 About a month ago, the organization began using Twitter to alert customers to offerings on seamsogood.com, which is recent weeks has promoted a Ralph Lauren tuxedo and Pucci-print pumps. ''As retailers, we're redoubling our efforts to re-introduce ourselves to shoppers,'' Mr. David said. ''It's our moment to seize and we must.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DISCOVERIES: Grace Bello with a Marc by Marc Jacobs dress that she found at a Goodwill in Chelsea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E1)
CHANGES ABOUT: A Goodwill fashion show in Washington and a boutique in Milwaukee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROGER CHIN
 DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (88%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%); CAVING (53%)

COMPANY: GOODWILL INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (73%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



283 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: Supersize Me

BYLINE: By HOLLY BRUBACH

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
When the Steelers won their N.F.L.-best sixth Super Bowl -- giving them one more than the Cowboys and the 49ers -- it seemed to call for a ring that would look not only important but different from their previous five. As to what that would mean, there was no shortage of opinions. 
 On the plane home from Tampa, Fla., wide receiver Hines Ward sketched his idea for the design. Over the following weeks other team members put in their two cents, with Ward, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger and linebackers James Farrior and James Harrison participating in the top-secret design meetings and funneling requests to Dan Rooney, the team chairman, and his son Art II, the team president. Asked what he was hoping for, nose tackle Casey Hampton said, ''Something blingy.'' Words that came up repeatedly were ''big,'' ''diamonds'' and ''big diamonds.'' 
 Even those who are not the blingy type were hoping for something completely out of character. Wide receiver Santonio Holmes, whose fourth-quarter tiptoe touchdown catch at the edge of the end zone clinched the Steelers' 27-23 victory over the Cardinals, described his style as ''low-key.'' But he reckoned that winning a world championship was no time for understatement. ''I can make the distinction,'' he said. 
 Although the Lombardi Trophy is produced by Tiffany & Co., Super Bowl rings are designed and made by companies that compete each year for the honor. Only four have produced the rings to date, with Jostens, of Minneapolis, and Balfour, of Delran, N.J., both specializing in high school and college class rings, responsible for the majority. 
 The contract is awarded by the team. The bill is footed by the league, with a $5,000 allowance per ring, adjusted for increases in the price of gold and diamonds and not including tax. By most estimates, the rings turn out to be a loss leader, with the companies absorbing any overruns in return for the prestige and permission to sell a line of related ''friends and family'' jewelry. 
 Tim Larson, president and chief executive officer of Jostens, which was awarded the contract, describes a Super Bowl ring as ''the chance to tell the story of the season.'' He and his staff begin brainstorming design concepts during the weeks leading up to the game, and, in the time-honored tradition of campaign donors who give money to opposing candidates in an election, Jostens develops ideas for both teams. Three companies vied for the right to make the Steelers' ring, in a contest that was ultimately decided on the basis of actual prototypes. 
 It seems safe to say that in the annals of fine jewelry design, Super Bowl rings will never occupy a place of great distinction. If anything, they constitute a tradition unto themselves. Aesthetics fall victim to the demands of cramming onto a small surface disparate elements like the team's insignia and the Super Bowl logo, and to what in strictly practical terms is too much information: the team's name, the year, the score and the player's number and his name (14 letters in the case of Roethlisberger, 4 for Ward). 
 ''The design tells the story of the team's effort,'' Charlie Anderson, a Jostens designer, said, ''as opposed to other jewelry, where you make decisions based on what's attractive.'' Would Super Bowl rings look better if they were not obliged to represent so much? Sure, but so would a woman's bracelet set with her children's birthstones if the children had all been born in the same month. 
 At the Pro Football Hall of Fame, in Canton, Ohio, the entire series of Super Bowl rings is on display, and the evolution is striking. In the early years, the number of diamonds corresponds to the number of Super Bowl wins, with an occasional smaller stone as an accent. The Packers' elegant yellow-gold signet style for Super Bowl I, in 1966, with its single half-carat round diamond at the center, is a relic of an era when fine jewelry kept the volume turned down. 
 In the mid-70s, inflation set in. The rings Al Davis commissioned for the Raiders for Super Bowls XV and XVIII, with the outline of a football filled in with multiple diamonds, provoked criticism from other club owners. The Cowboys' ring for Super Bowl XXVII, in 1992, featured a proprietary cut star-shaped diamond; their third ring, three years later, with 81 diamonds totaling five carats, was at the time the largest ever made. 
 That distinction has lately belonged to the Patriots, for Super Bowl XXXIX. In fact, nearly all the rings from the past 10 years are on a jumbo scale and thick with diamonds -- the seemingly inexorable outcome of persistent one-upmanship, compounded by popular taste ratcheted higher by celebrities like Jay-Z and Diddy. Rap stars may now be scaling back the bling in the face of hard times, but Super Bowl winners show no signs of following suit. 
 The Steelers are not a flashy football team. Their quarterback does not date supermodels or pose for fashion shoots in GQ. Coach Mike Tomlin and the Rooneys preside over a culture with zero tolerance for big egos and showbiz shenanigans. If Super Bowl rings are designed to reflect a team's unique personality, that would seem to create a predicament for the Steelers. How to square their image as a bunch of modest guys who get the job done with a ring that keeps up with the Jerry Joneses? 
 ''Well, once you get to the point where you have to put six diamonds on a ring, it's pretty hard to be modest about what you're trying to do,'' Art Rooney II said. ''The way we see it, the players deserve to have something that they're proud of, that represents their accomplishment. So even if it doesn't quite fit the overall image of the Steelers, it fits the occasion.''
 Christmas came on Tuesday night, when the Steelers finally received their rings, and it became clear that the forces for bling had carried the day. The six large round diamonds are hard to miss, flanking a diamond-studded central football in white gold, to heighten the impact of the ''ice,'' with more diamonds in a double border. Having had what he described as ''a little bit of say-so,'' Farrior seemed satisfied with the results. ''I wanted as many diamonds as they could fit on there,'' he said. ''I think we accomplished that.''
 There were championship rings before there were Super Bowls, and other mementos the N.F.L. bestowed on world championship teams before they settled on rings: among them, football-shaped lapel pins, watch fobs, tie bars, and, on the occasion of the Chicago Bears' victory in 1933, bearskins. But they lacked a Super Bowl ring's instant public recognition. With their enormous new ring, which goes the Patriots' one bigger by a millimeter, the Steelers have taken a notion that started out subliminal and brought it into daylight: the Super Bowl ring as personal portable trophy. 
 Holmes and free safety Ryan Clark announced that they had no immediate plans to take the new ring off, not even for sleeping. Offensive tackle Max Starks figured that he would go through a period when he wears the ring all the time, if only around the house. ''You don't want to be presumptuous and wear it everywhere, and then some people think you're showing off,'' he said. He wore his first one to sit on the couch and watch TV. ''You hit the remote, look, hit the remote, look,'' he said. ''You find yourself coming up with a whole new set of hand gestures.'' 
 Six round brilliants that stand for six Super Bowl victories, 14 diamonds that signify the Steelers' division titles -- like all Super Bowl rings, this one relies on symbols to give it greater meaning. In the end, however, the symbolism is as personal as it is collective. 
 For Starks, the ring is a token of ''different situations I overcame to get to this point, when a lot of people doubted that I'd make it this far.'' For Clark, it's a symbol of how far he came back -- from a ruptured spleen the season before. For Roethlisberger, it means a ring of his own: he gave his first one to his dad on Father's Day 2006. ''For a time, it was just him and me,'' Roethlisberger said, referring to the years after his mother died, when he was 8. ''I wouldn't have gotten here without him.'' 
 This ring is Art Rooney's fourth. Does he wear his rings? ''Rarely,'' he says. ''I only wear one of them at a time. I mean, it would look kind of unusual walking into a restaurant with those rings on.'' 
 Some players arrived at the ceremony wearing rings from Super Bowl XL, when Pittsburgh beat the Seahawks three years ago. Most, like Farrior and cornerback Ike Taylor, will wear the new ring on the other hand. ''Would you ever wear two rings at one time?'' cornerback Deshea Townsend asked Hampton. ''No question,'' Hampton replied.
 A long string of injuries inflicted by pass rushers who come on like freight trains has left Starks with knobby knuckles, fingers that splay in odd directions -- and limited options. He had the new ring fitted for his right middle finger, right next to his first ring, although he does not anticipate wearing them both at once.
 ''Unless the situation calls,'' he said. And what would the situation be? ''Unless I'm around some friends who have only one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aside from the gold and diamonds, the Steelers' sixth ring includes the Super Bowl logo and other details, like the score. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSTENS) (pg.B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); FINE JEWELRY MFG (88%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); JEWELRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FINE JEWELRY (73%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (84%); DALLAS COWBOYS (84%); PHOENIX CARDINALS (55%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (82%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (82%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



284 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
PAY LIMITS PLAN A federal proposal to restrict executive pay has the potential to humble large institutions that received bailout money, and an official was named to oversee compensation at those companies. 
 Kenneth R. Feinberg, appointed by the Obama administration as the compensation official for companies on federal assistance, has experience in mediating complicated disputes. [B1.] 
 G.M.'S CULTURE WARS Among the challenges facing the federal government as it tries to make General Motors more competitive is an insular, bureaucratic culture. [A1.] 
 AN AILING CITI Citigroup was pulled deeper into the government's grasp when it began its stock deal that would pave the way for the United States to become its largest shareholder, with a 34 percent stake. Sheila C. Bair, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, was said to be pressing directors to put the company's house in order. [B1.] 
 CHINA'S BUYING SPREE Buyers in China have helped raise commodity prices around the world, but analysts think these purchases are being stockpiled and cannot continue. [B1.] 
 KERKORIAN'S NEXT MOVE The billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who has a stake in the casino giant MGM Mirage, has taken a hit in the recession, but companies in distress have always been his specialty. [B1.] 
 NEW LOOK AT MERRILL Documents about the government's role in Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill Lynch reveal that federal officials had strong concerns about the depths of Merrill's problems. [B1.] 
 CHRYSLER DEAL COMPLETE After 42 days of bankruptcy proceedings, Chrysler officially completed an alliance with Fiat. The speed of the process was a victory for the Obama administration, which said a reorganization would be ''controlled.'' [B4.] 
 DELAY IN DELPHI CASE The auto parts maker Delphi, which filed for bankruptcy protection almost four years ago, was ordered by a federal judge to open its sales process to new bidders, despite a deal that it struck last week with a private equity firm. [B4.] 
 AUTO BAILOUTS DEFENDED Ron Bloom, an adviser to President Obama's auto task force, defended the government's aid to the auto industry, saying the moves had saved jobs and would pay off. [B4.] 
 BEHAR'S NEW SHOW Joy Behar, of ''The View,'' is taking on a second TV job, joining HLN, a sibling network to CNN, to host a 9 p.m. talk show. [B6.] 
 WEAK NUMBERS FROM ASIA Data from the Asia-Pacific region show that exports from the region are down and indicate a return to economic growth is likely to take more time. [B9.] 
 SHARES SLIDE The markets sank slightly, but the interest rate on the Treasury's benchmark 10-year notes rose despite relatively strong demand. [B11.] 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Citigroup price per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (68%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (68%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); KIRK KERKORIAN (65%); SHEILA BAIR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



285 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: TREASURY TO SET EXECUTIVES' PAY AT 7 AILING FIRMS

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration's sweeping new proposal to restrict executive pay is likely to be a humbling exercise for seven of the nation's largest companies, which have received billions of dollars in federal assistance to survive the economic crisis. 
 But for most other companies, the plan is expected to have only a marginal effect on pay practices for now. 
 The Treasury Department on Wednesday appointed a well-known Washington lawyer, Kenneth R. Feinberg, to oversee the compensation of employees at the seven companies -- the American International Group, Citigroup, Bank of America, General Motors, Chrysler and the financing arms of the two automakers. 
 He will have broad discretion to set the salaries and bonuses for their five most senior executives and their 20 most highly paid employees. 
 The new plan also calls on Congress to adopt legislation that would let shareholders vote on pay levels and require public companies to strengthen the independence of board panels that set executive pay. 
 But for most companies -- both those receiving taxpayer support and those that are not -- the proposal is the result of a compromise that largely lets them off the hook. The rules reveal a strong reluctance among some of President Obama's advisers to intrude more deeply into corporate boardrooms, government officials said. 
 The 10 large banks that received permission on Tuesday to exit the bank rescue program, for example, will face no mandatory changes to their compensation structures. 
 There is no such reluctance, however, when it comes to deeply troubled companies. The new rules illustrate the humiliating downfall of the once proud giants, now wards of the state whose leaders' compensation will be set by a Washington paymaster. 
 From his nondescript office in Room 1310 of the Treasury building where he will serve with the unwieldy title of special master for compensation, Mr. Feinberg will set the salaries and bonuses of some of the top financiers and industrialists in America. 
 The list includes Vikram S. Pandit, the head of Citigroup, whose total pay came to $38 million in 2008; Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, who last year received $9 million in total compensation; and Fritz Henderson, the chief executive of G.M., who got $8.7 million last year when he was president of the company.
 While there is no salary cap at the seven companies, the plan offers an incentive for companies to adopt a voluntary cap. If they limit executive pay to no more than $500,000, Mr. Feinberg's approval will be automatic. 
 Mr. Feinberg will also have the right to review the compensation for the 100 most highly paid employees and any other executives. 
 For other financial institutions that have received federal assistance, Mr. Feinberg will play an advisory role in establishing the overall compensation structure, but without setting the exact level of pay. The goal is to reduce excessive risk-taking by executives whose compensation is tied to company performance. 
 Mr. Feinberg will also determine whether it would be in the public interest to force executives at companies receiving assistance who might have been overpaid -- for example, if their pay was based on revenue and profit that turned out to be illusory -- to return the money.
 ''This financial crisis had many significant causes, but executive compensation practices were a contributing factor. Incentives for short-term gains overwhelmed the checks and balances meant to mitigate against the risk of excess leverage,'' Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, said Wednesday. 
 ''By outlining these principles now, we begin the process of bringing compensation practices more tightly in line with the interests of shareholders and reinforcing the stability of firms and the financial system,'' he added. 
 Rather than decide compensation levels at the seven companies himself, Mr. Geithner decided to appoint Mr. Feinberg, a mediator whose last major assignment was putting a financial value on the lives of victims of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 Under the new rules, the seven companies will have 60 days to submit the pay packages of the 25 top executives. Mr. Feinberg would then have 60 days to review those plans. 
 In weighing the appropriateness of the pay, Mr. Feinberg is to consider such criteria as the profitability of the company, the general marketplace for compensation, the ability of the company to repay their taxpayer loan and the extent to which the pay packages encourage excessive risk-taking. 
 For the smaller institutions that remain in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, executives face some restrictions, but there are loopholes. Many of the new rules, for instance, will not apply to companies that received the relief funds before February -- the vast majority of companies in the program. 
 The compensation and perks of executives at some of the companies receiving aid provoked a political firestorm this year. In revising a February proposal to set pay limits, the Obama administration has decided to leave the success or failure of its effort to tame excessive compensation largely to Mr. Feinberg. (Mr. Feinberg himself will not receive any compensation for his job.) 
 The latest plan tries to satisfy public demand for controlling excessive pay while not spooking Wall Street, which the administration is relying on to help buy the troubled mortgage-backed assets at weaker banks. 
 Mr. Geithner told reporters on Tuesday that financial institutions remain worried about ''political risks'' including more government regulation of compensation, if they participate in the Public-Private Investment Program to buy those assets. 
 The announcement is the third effort by Washington to respond to public outrage over outsize pay packages. On Feb. 4, the Obama administration announced a proposal to set a $500,000 cap on cash compensation for the most senior executives at troubled companies getting ''exceptional assistance,'' and restrictions on cashing in stock incentives.
 That plan did little to quell public sentiment as details of bonuses were disclosed at major companies receiving federal assistance. Two weeks after the Obama plan was announced, Congress approved a $787 billion economic stimulus bill that included tougher restrictions. 
 That provision, inserted by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat, over the objections of the Obama administration, instructed Treasury to come up with rules for the five top officers and the 20 highest-paid executives at the largest of the troubled companies. 
 The legislation also barred top executives from receiving bonuses exceeding one-third of their annual pay. Moreover, any bonus would have to be in the form of long-term incentives, like restricted stock, which could not be cashed out until the company repaid the government.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Limits on Executive Pay: The administration's new pay czar, Kenneth R. Feinberg, will set the compensation of the top 25 executives at seven troubled financial firms. The 2008 pay for some current and former executives is below. Figures for Chrysler and Chrysler Credit two private firms are not available. (Source: Equilar) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BONUS PAY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); KENNETH D LEWIS (78%); VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



286 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Your Invitation Is Not in the Mail

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

 BODY:
IN Washington, the same week Barack Obama took office, a young staff member for Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice enlisted Paperless Post, a new online stationery service, to help put together a going-away party for her boss. 
 The interactive correspondence ''was all anybody wanted to talk about,'' said Sarah Lenti, who went on to work for Mitt Romney -- the way the hyperreal envelope with the invitee's name appears on the computer, how it reverses to the sender's on the back, and then the piece de resistance invitation pops out, so detailed you can see the paper's grain. How intuitive it was to click on the RSVP and fill out the reply card. Zac Posen had used it for a benefit, as had some Diane Von Furstenberg folks, and the Young Friends of the Elie Wiesel Foundation were about to try it. 
 Paperless Post, which is in New York, is a venture of Alexa Hirschfeld, 25, and her brother James, 23. It enables users to design, send and track e-vites and other social summonses on the Web while maintaining easy correctness and a life's-a-party air reminiscent of old-fashioned mailings. The siblings have handled 60,000 invitations since January, and 150,000 since their membership-based operations began last fall. 
 ''The Internet has been a kind of vacuum in terms of aesthetics,'' Ms. Hirschfeld said. ''We wanted to leverage functionality with design.'' So many people, she added, had gotten bored with such easy-virtue social tools as Facebook or Evite. The recession-related closing of Madison Avenue stationer Mrs. John L. Strong last month further suggests to the Hirschfelds that their customer base will expand.
 The economic climate ''definitely put the wind in our sails,'' Mr. Hirschfeld said. ''People say they would rather save $2,000 by not getting printed invitations, and invite four more friends to their wedding.'' The fee structure for Paperless Post works on a sliding scale with the purchase of virtual stamps bearing the company's carrier-pigeon logo, starting at $5 for 60 e-mailings.
 The Hirschfelds are operating in a clutch of pods surrounded by lipstick samplers in space subleased from the French cosmetics company Bourjois, on Fifth Avenue near 17th Street. A business plan and a financial model outlining the dent they believe they can make in the $11 billion made-to-order stationery market provided them with their first round of financing (almost $1 million) from a group that includes Mousse Partners, an investment firm. Ms. Hirschfeld had been working at CBS News for Katie Couric but quit, ''because I was interested in this more powerful platform,'' she said.
 They decided against on-site advertising, which would be like ''getting a flyer inside a wedding invitation,'' Mr. Hirschfeld said.
 Still, Pamela Fiori, the editor in chief of Town & Country, does not approve. ''In a world increasingly uncivilized,'' she said, ''it's important that we have some ties to tradition. And I honestly think that what we're losing with e-mail are our memories.''
 Some older users print their Paperless Post missives, Ms. Hirschfeld said, but ''for most it's about the beauty, not holding a piece of paper in your hand.''
 The practically size-zero carbon footprint is an added attraction. ''It's completely green,'' said Celine Kaplan, spokeswoman for Eres, who has orchestrated fashion debuts with Paperless Post.
 The Hirschfelds have added letterhead templates alongside the more personal alternatives, and have steadily accumulated concept categories, fonts, motifs, border patterns, paper colors, sizes, stock and textures. They browse notions emporiums in the garment district for decorations. They work with a designer, a stylist and a photographer to create their prototypes, and work with their technology brainiacs on the Web site, which also provides hosts with a RSVP tracking system and the ability to sell and buy tickets to events.
 ''We basically digested Crane's Blue Book of Etiquette and Emily Post,'' Ms. Hirschfeld said, for the application that generates wording choices. Mr. Hirschfeld's first design, dark red with a border of zebras, was inspired by the wallpaper at the restaurant Gino on the Upper East Side. 
 Vanessa Bain, a vice president at an equity fund in New York, is using Paperless Post for her Bermuda wedding, and she said the beach motif the Web site produced will resurface on the paper invitations to the ceremony itself. ''The ordering took an hour online rather than having to meet in a store, and then wait two and a half weeks for printed invitations,'' she said, ''and I have friends and relatives in places like Brazil, who will get what I e-mail almost the instant I send it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TYPE-CASTING: James and Alexa Hirschfeld of Paperless Post, along with two examples of their work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG SCAFFIDI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (89%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COSMETICS (73%); EQUITY FINANCING (72%); FINANCING ROUNDS (72%); TOILETRIES MFG (65%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); BUSINESS PLANS (60%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (60%)

COMPANY: BOURJOIS (80%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (80%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); MITT ROMNEY (56%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (53%); KATIE COURIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



287 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Saw Problems On the Way At Merrill

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and JO BECKER; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Alarm was rising inside the Federal Reserve.
 It was late December, and Fed officials were warning that Merrill Lynch -- a brokerage firm that for many Americans is synonymous with Wall Street -- was foundering even faster than many had feared.
 Merrill's ''deterioration has been substantially worse,'' a financial adviser to the Fed cautioned the central bank that month in an analysis of the situation. Merrill, a Fed official wrote in an e-mail message, had become ''a Black Hole.'' 
 That warning, and others like it, were detailed in a memorandum prepared by Republican Congressional staff members and obtained by The New York Times. The documents provide a glimpse into the government's role in one of the most controversial moments of the financial crisis -- the hastily arranged acquisition of Merrill by Bank of America. 
 While that deal saved Merrill and averted a financial firestorm, it left Bank of America scrambling to deal with a company whose losses were far greater than it had bargained for. 
 Indeed, even before the deal closed, federal officials were so concerned about the state of Merrill Lynch that they developed a plan to save the firm in the event the merger fell through. 
 In a contingency report, portions of which were included in the documents, Fed staff members wrote that they might allow Merrill to become a bank holding company or lend it additional money to avoid an ''immediate run.'' They developed the backup plan and notified authorities in Britain about it even as they pushed bank executives to toward the marriage, despite Merrill's fourth-quarter losses.
 The documents include only select e-mail messages, most of which are incomplete. But these new details about Merrill's final days emerged in advance of a hearing on Thursday, where the bank's chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, was scheduled to appear. The twists and turns of the merger have trickled out in recent months as the New York attorney general and, later, Congress began investigations. The deal has led to shareholder lawsuits against Bank of America and fueled a shareholder initiative that cost Mr. Lewis his seat as chairman of the bank.
 Mr. Lewis was to be the sole witness at the hearing. He planned to testify that the merger was ''already yielding significant benefits,'' according to Mr. Lewis's planned testimony. 
 Of the negotiations between his company and the government in December, he was expected to say that ''people of good intentions, in both the private sector and the government, worked desperately hard in late 2008 to prevent a collapse of the global financial system.''
 Portions of e-mail messages sent among Fed staff members paint a picture of the strong pressure regulators put on Mr. Lewis's company to complete the deal, even after Merrill's financial state weakened. The Fed hired Pimco, the giant bond house, to evaluate the state of the two companies separately, and Pimco concluded that Merrill's ''deterioration has been substantially worse than'' Bank of America's. Pimco also found that Merrill would not be able to survive on its own without new capital or additional government aid.
 The documents obtained by The Times include memorandums prepared by staff members on the House committee, as well as Mr. Lewis's planned testimony.
 Republican lawmakers on the committee are pressing for another hearing so they can question the two officials who have already been associated publicly with the heated discussions late last year, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed, and Henry M. Paulson, the former secretary of the Treasury.
 The documents also included notes taken by Bank of America's chief financial officer, suggesting that Lawrence H. Summers, now the president's lead economics adviser, and Timothy F. Geithner, the secretary of the Treasury, agreed that Merrill should not be allowed to fail. A spokesman for Mr. Geithner, who was the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said it was not true that he had agreed. Spokesmen for Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner said neither was involved in discussion about Bank of America at that time. 
 A Bank of America spokesman declined to comment on the documents, which he said he had not seen. But, Larry Di Rita, the spokesman, said that the deal was working, adding ''we're looking forward.'' The Federal Reserve declined to comment.
 Among other things, the memo cites an e-mail from an employee of the Richmond Federal Reserve who said that Mr. Bernanke had told him that the bank did not have a ''credible'' threat to use its material adverse clause provision to pull out of the deal.
 Another employee wrote in an e-mail message to the general counsel of the Federal Reserve of New York that he planned to call Merrill's chief financial officer and try to determine whether the investment bank was considering disclosing its heightened losses. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenneth D. Lewis is no longer Bank of America's chairman.
 Lawmakers want to question Ben Bernanke about Merrill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA ROBERTS) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TESTIMONY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); ACQUISITIONS (68%); WITNESSES (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LITIGATION (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (60%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



288 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: P.&G. Opts For an Insider As Its C.E.O.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
The consumer products company Procter & Gamble said Wednesday that it had selected Robert A. McDonald as its chief executive, citing his broad experience and his 29 years with the company. 
 Mr. McDonald, who will take over July 1, has helped build the company's developing markets business and restructure company operations. P.& G. made the announcement on the long-expected succession a day after its board met in Cincinnati.
 A. G. Lafley, who became chief executive nine years ago this week, will remain chairman. He will be 62 Saturday. 
 Mr. McDonald will be 56 later this month, before he moves up from chief operating officer to become company president and the 12th chief executive in the company's 172-year history. He is a native of Gary, Ind., and a West Point graduate with considerable experience in the Asian region, where he sees strong growth opportunities. 
 P.& G. shares fell 33 cents, to close at $52.08. 
 Mr. McDonald has said that P.& G.'s fastest growth is coming from emerging markets, and that the company will aggressively step up its presence in the developing world, building new plants in countries as far-flung as Pakistan and Nigeria. He has said that P.& G., whose sales and earnings growth have fallen during the recession, can more than double its annual sales, to $175 billion a year, over the next 15 years by increasing its reach into countries like India, China and Brazil.
 ''There's no question that the basic demographics are going to take the center of gravity of our business to Asia, to Africa -- where the people are, where the babies are being born,'' Mr. McDonald said in an interview last year.
 He became chief operating officer in 2007. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert A. McDonald will lead Procter & Gamble on July 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM UHLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (75%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: ALAN LAFLEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (55%) INDIANA, USA (55%) ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



289 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Overseer Of Big Pay Is Seasoned Arbitrator

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
If there is one thing Kenneth R. Feinberg does not like to be called, it is a czar. 
 But the man the Obama administration appointed Wednesday as the compensation official for companies on federal assistance will have an almost unprecedented discretion to set pay for some of the nation's top bankers and chief executives.
 He will advise banks still supported by taxpayer bailouts on the kinds of pay systems they should use. He could even decide whether banks repaying the government were too generous with salaries while they were receiving backing. 
 The mandate is among the most sweeping given to an individual to oversee the compensation of an entire industry and reflects the federal government's increasingly visible hand in corporate affairs. 
 Yet to Mr. Feinberg, who became a nationally known figure after the Bush administration assigned him to help settle possible lawsuits by the families of victims of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, the job is about restoring a sane pay structure that discourages the sorts of high-flying risks that stoked the worst financial crisis since the Depression. 
 ''One thing that troubles me is this notion of me described as a compensation czar,'' Mr. Feinberg said in an interview. ''It makes it sound as if my goal is to impose certain restrictions on the private marketplace, whereas I am much more interested in working with these companies.'' 
 Mr. Feinberg has extensive experience in mediating complicated compensation disputes. 
 As the arbiter of payouts for families of the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, his job was to put a value on the lives of the victims and offer government settlements to avoid lawsuits. He met with many of the families and spoke around the country about how intellectually challenging and emotionally difficult the assignment became. He often sought refuge by cloistering himself in a room in his home to listen to his extensive opera collection.
 Mr. Feinberg's powers were sweeping in that situation: he helped create the fund's rules and procedures, oversaw its operations, and was charged with personally signing off on awards made to claimants, who were required to waive their right to sue over the attacks and forgo appeals of the fund's decisions.
 Then, as now, Mr. Feinberg, received no compensation for his work. Although originally derided as arrogant, he worked ceaselessly on the program, eventually winning converts after the first awards to families were made in August 2002.
 His penchant for instilling discipline to the process paid off. When concern began to grow that few families would file applications with the fund, Mr. Feinberg declined to extend filing dates because it would ''fuel procrastination.'' His decision to set a firm deadline helped avoid new delays and brought the payout process to a rapid close. 
 Because the Sept. 11 fund was set up as an alternative to the court system, Mr. Feinberg was required to pay out more money to families of high-earning victims, like stock traders, than he did to relatives of low-paid workers. Recalling those decisions, he said: ''I think it would have been a lot easier and more effective if everyone got the same amount of money.''
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said that Mr. Feinberg's appointment showed the administration's commitment to reform. ''He showed a great deal of skill with the much more emotional subject after 9/11,'' Mr. Frank said. 
 Before that assignment, he was appointed by federal district judges to help resolve several difficult product liability lawsuits. He played central roles in resolving cases involving victims of asbestos, Agent Orange and the Dalkon shield, a birth control device that injured more than 200,000 women. 
 Mr. Feinberg, who was formerly chief of staff for Senator Edward M. Kennedy and was considered for the post of White House counsel in the Clinton administration, was also one of three arbitrators who determined the fair market value of the Zapruder film that captured the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. He resolved a dispute between the heirs of Abraham Zapruder, who shot the footage, and the government, which acquired the 26-second film. 
 ''In what may be one of his more controversial roles as the administration's compensation official, Mr. Feinberg has the authority to ask any company that received money from the asset relief program to reimburse the government for salaries deemed excessive while they were on taxpayer support. 
 He did not clarify whether he would pursue companies that had returned taxpayer money -- including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, which paid off the government this week -- saying only that he would actively review compensation handed out for 2008 at companies still on taxpayer support.
 Laura Thatcher, the head of the executive compensation practice at Alston & Bird, said that his role raised serious questions about government interference in compensation in the private sector. ''It's a very unusual thing to turn over the setting of pay to a third party,'' she said, adding that state law gives only boards direct authority over compensation. Still, Ms. Thatcher said she thought it would be unlikely that companies would challenge the government. ''I think the real challenge here,'' Mr. Feinberg said, ''is going to be balancing the populist sentiment which says the taxpayers should not be subsidizing compensation for these TARP recipient companies versus the historical view in this country that government had best stay out of managing compensation at private companies.'' 
 Mr. Feinberg said he would differentiate among compensation plans at industrial companies like General Motors and financial companies like Citigroup, and said he would not look for a ''one-size-fits-all approach.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth R. Feinberg has experience in mediating complicated compensation disputes, including payouts for Sept. 11 families. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



290 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Gehry Is Out As Designer On Project In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Andy Newman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Atlantic Yards is really through with Frank Gehry.
 An award-winning architect, Mr. Gehry will not be designing any of the 17 buildings planned for the 22-acre development in Brooklyn on which he has labored for the past six years, a spokesman for the architect confirmed Wednesday. 
 Last week, the Atlantic Yards developer Bruce C. Ratner revealed that Mr. Gehry had been replaced by the firm Ellerbe Becket as the architect for the project's linchpin: a basketball arena for the Nets at the intersection of Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues.
 Now comes official word that he will not be the architect for any of the residential or other commercial buildings either. His designs just cost too much, the developer said.
 ''We do not anticipate that Mr. Gehry will be designing any of the individual buildings,'' Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for Mr. Ratner, said Wednesday.
 He conceded that the announcement issued last week ''should've been clearer.'' But, he added, Mr. Gehry's master plan for the development and his guidelines remain in place.
 Mr. Gehry's elimination was reported on Wednesday by WNYC.
 In hindsight, Mr. Gehry's comments last Friday are an adieu to Atlantic Yards. ''We remain extremely proud of our work on the Atlantic Yards master plan and on the original arena, which we designed in close collaboration with Forest City Ratner,'' he said in a statement. ''While there are always regrets at designs not realized, we greatly appreciate our ongoing relationship with Bruce and his team.''
 The ''ongoing relationship'' was a reference to a skyscraper Mr. Gehry designed for Mr. Ratner, the Beekman, which is under construction in Lower Manhattan.
 The developer cited the ''economic climate'' as the reason to switch architects. The new arena is expected to cost about $800 million, or $200 million less than Mr. Gehry's design. In the initial renderings, the arena looks like an airplane hangar. 
 Mr. Ratner, who has been plagued by lawsuits and a flagging economy, has already delayed the office building and most, if not all, of 6,000 planned apartments -- 40 percent of which were set aside for low-, moderate- and middle-income families. He is racing to start building the arena by the end of the year to qualify for tax-exempt financing.
 Critics, and even some supporters, say that Mr. Gehry's departure contributes to a sense that Mr. Ratner is slowly stripping away the very things that garnered support for his ambitious project -- world-class architecture, affordable housing and an unusual arena that fit into an urban landscape. 
 Mr. Gehry, who has already been paid tens of millions of dollars for his work on Atlantic Yards, was a key marketing element for the development from the start. He and an early model of the basketball arena were prominent props (along with Jay-Z and Bernard King) at a pep rally on Dec. 10, 2003, at Brooklyn Borough Hall, where Mr. Ratner unveiled his original plan shortly after buying the Nets. Promotional materials distributed in the neighborhood featured Mr. Gehry's involvement. And Atlantic Yards's ''general project plan'' from December 2006 stated: ''It is currently anticipated that the buildings would be based on designs from Frank Gehry, a world-renowned architect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank Gehry 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); LITIGATION (73%); BASKETBALL (70%); CITY LIFE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); FAMILY (62%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



291 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: The Walking Wounded

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Tough words from Washington arrived by phone on Tuesday at Citigroup headquarters in New York. 
 On the line was Sheila C. Bair, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation -- and a powerful behind-the-scenes player at the giant bank. She was calling to press directors once again to put Citigroup's troubled house in order. 
 Ms. Bair urged the board to take swift action to purge Citigroup's troubled assets, sell money-losing businesses and assess senior management, according to people briefed on the call, who spoke on the condition they not be named because they were not authorized to discuss the conversation.
 The message was clear: Other banks are starting to break free from Washington, but Citigroup will remain a ward of the state. 
 Indeed, even as 10 big banks celebrate their imminent release from the federal bailout program this week, Citigroup is feeling the government's grip tighten.
 The company was drawn deeper into Washington's grasp on Wednesday, when it began a long-awaited stock deal that will pave the way for the federal government to become its largest shareholder, with a 34 percent stake. In no other major American bank is the government so deeply entrenched.
 The question now is when, or perhaps even if, Citigroup will be able to free itself from Washington. The bank's embattled chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, is eager to do so. A top goal is to shake off government-imposed restrictions on his employees' compensation so Citigroup can hire and retain the people it needs to fix itself. The bank is also eager to escape scrutiny from the public and regulators. 
 The issue of pay came to the fore on Wednesday, when the Obama administration named Kenneth R. Feinberg, who oversaw the government's efforts to compensate families of those killed in the 9/11 attacks, to review pay at companies that received ''exceptional assistance.'' Citigroup falls into that category, along with the American International Group, Bank of America, General Motors and GMAC.
 Citigroup -- which along with Bank of America and Wells Fargo has not been allowed to return the federal aid it received last fall, at the height of the credit crisis -- is struggling with the ramifications of the government's intrusion into its business. The F.D.I.C., which guarantees the bank's deposits, debt and tens of billions of dollars of risky assets, is worried about Citigroup's finances -- and about whether it has the right executives to turn itself around. 
 While Mr. Pandit has won quiet support from Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, his relationship with Ms. Bair has been frosty. In the Tuesday call, Ms. Bair told Citigroup's board it should examine whether the bank's management has enough experience in commercial banking. Mr. Pandit came to the job in late 2007 with little experience in that area. The board listened, but requested more time for him to execute his turnaround strategy.
 A decade after Citigroup rewrote the rules of American finance by creating a globe-spanning financial supermarket, its long-term future seems uncertain. Its most ardent critics maintain that the bank, the recipient of two multibillion-dollar bailouts, should be broken up and the pieces sold off, or even shut down to protect depositors, taxpayers and the financial industry. 
 That is the extreme view. Few on Wall Street predict that Washington will try to unwind Citigroup, widely considered too big to fail. But, to its detractors, Citigroup is considered too big to succeed. Much will depend on whether Mr. Pandit and his team can run Citigroup profitably even as the bank grapples with mounting bad loans. 
 For the moment, investors are taking a dim view of Citigroup's prospects. Since early May, when the government announced that 19 major banks, including Citigroup, had passed federally administered stress tests, most banking stocks have rallied. But Citigroup's share price has fallen 13.4 percent. While it rose 7 cents on Wednesday, to $3.48,, the stock is still worth a fraction of the $54 it fetched two years ago. 
 Despite tentative signs that Citigroup is at least stabilizing -- the bank has slashed costs, split off its brokerage unit and improved risk management -- anxiety among its employees remains high, insiders say. Mr. Pandit is struggling to keep top traders and bankers from bolting to rivals. Some Citigroup employees wonder if Mr. Pandit can hang on without surrounding himself with more veteran bankers. 
 ''We have the right strategy, the right structure and the right people,'' Mr. Pandit said Wednesday in a statement. ''I'm confident that we will continue to make progress and that the strength of our franchise will be evident as the economy improves.'' 
 Even so, Citigroup insiders are buzzing that two new directors -- Jerry A. Grundhofer, former U.S. Bancorp chairman; and Michael E. O'Neill, former Bank of Hawaii chairman -- might take a more active role at the bank. Many also expect the departure of C. Michael Armstrong, who headed the audit and risk committee as Citigroup pushed into risky subprime mortgage investments and expensive acquisitions. Spokesmen for Citigroup and the F.D.I.C. declined to comment Wednesday. 
 This week brought another humbling moment for Citigroup. Some rivals are poised to exit the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, a mere eight months after accepting federal aid. But it may be years before Citigroup is allowed to stand fully on its own, experts said. It took the federal government seven years to extricate itself completely from Continental Illinois, a big bank that faltered in the 1980s.
 ''We are probably in Citi on a multiyear basis,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former investment banker. 
 Citigroup is grappling with a host of problems, from how to rid itself of worrisome assets to how to cope with souring mortgages and credit card loans. 
 ''There is lingering uncertainty about the need for additional stock sales, which dilute existing shareholders, and whether a bank that is partially owned by the government is free to act,'' said John McDonald, a banking analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. 
 Wednesday's exchange offer, which will help clear the way for government ownership, contains a special clause to deter a takeover of the entire company in the next three years. An ownership change would place strict limits on the use of tax losses to offset the company's income, imperiling its capital levels.
 The exchange offer will also flood the market with new Citigroup shares. At the end of August, Citigroup will have more than 23 billion shares outstanding, with the government owning around eight billion. That is nearly three times more than Bank of America's share count, and over five times more than JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. ''You need a lot more income to move the profit needle for investors,'' said Mr. McDonald, the analyst.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, has won quiet support from Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Sheila C. Bair of the F.D.I.C. told Citigroup's board it should examine management's experience in commercial banking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BAILOUTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); TERRORISM (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (81%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (92%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (90%); VIKRAM PANDIT (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



292 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Nominees Picked, Virginia Governor's Race Kicks Off

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
Wasting no time, Virginia Democrats swung into high gear on Wednesday, kicking off what is likely to be the most closely watched and fiercely fought statewide contest of the year. 
 A day after State Senator R. Creigh Deeds won a resounding victory in the Democratic primary over two better-financed and more-connected candidates, he emphasized his plans to continue running as a centrist and to focus on issues like jobs and the transportation budget crisis that unify voters across the state.
 ''I'm not the kind of guy who says one thing today and another thing tomorrow,'' Mr. Deeds said Wednesday in a radio interview. ''I'm going to talk about the same issues and in the same way. I stayed in the middle, and I will stay in the middle as a general election candidate.'' 
 Democrats hope to continue their party's recent winning streak in this historically conservative state, while Republicans say a victory here would represent the first step in the national party's road to renewal. 
 In the general election, Mr. Deeds will face Robert F. McDonnell, a Republican who beat him in the 2005 race for attorney general by fewer than 400 votes. But the rematch, this time for the governor's seat, promises to be different because four years ago, the two men sparred mostly below the national radar, on issues of law and order. This time, both national parties will pour major sums of money into the race, and the focus is likely to be on the economy and jobs.
 Republicans privately say they would have preferred a race against Terry McAuliffe, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, who held an early lead in the polls but, along with Brian J. Moran, a former prosecutor and member of the House of Delegates, lost convincingly to Mr. Deeds.
 Republican strategists said Mr. McAuliffe's close ties to Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton and his dependence on out-of-state donors would have made him an easy target. But Mr. McDonnell still has the advantage of his earlier victory over Mr. Deeds and a significant fund-raising lead.
 Michael S. Steele, chairman of the Republican National Committee, called Mr. McDonnell's candidacy ''part of a Republican renaissance that starts this year in Virginia.'' 
 ''It is going to be a tough fight,'' Mr. Steele said, ''but we are well positioned for victory.''
 Few pundits had expected Mr. Deeds to make it this far, but in the end, he captured 50 percent of the vote, with Mr. McAuliffe receiving 26 percent and Mr. Moran 24 percent. Mr. Deeds also took 10 of the state's 11 Congressional districts, including the one held by Mr. Moran's brother, Representative James P. Moran Jr. 
 At a cramped Democratic Party headquarters Wednesday morning, staff members from all three primary campaigns donned blue-and-green ''Deeds'' stickers in a show of unity. 
 After a congratulatory call from President Obama, Mr. Deeds told campaign workers that he looked forward to strong support from Gov. Tim Kaine, who is also chairman of the Democratic National Committee but could not run for re-election because of term limits, and Virginia's popular United States senators, Jim Webb and Mark Warner, as well as the president.
 He will need it. 
 Mr. McDonnell begins the general election campaign with a significant edge in money, largely because he faced no primary opposition. He has raised around $9 million, while Mr. Deeds has taken in about $3 million. 
 In a video message sent by e-mail to supporters Tuesday night, Mr. McDonnell congratulated Mr. Deeds and said he looked forward to a debate over issues like transportation financing, college tuition costs and energy policy.
 ''Virginians want, and the commonwealth needs, a positive vision and new ideas for the future,'' Mr. McDonnell said.
 The Republican Governors Association also issued a statement noting Mr. Deeds's votes for a proposed increase in the gasoline tax last year and his support for a 2004 tax increase that Mr. Warner, then governor, pushed through the Republican-controlled legislature.
 Larry J. Sabato, a political science professor at the University of Virginia, said he expected the economy -- jobs and the state's transportation budget shortfall -- to dominate the race. Republicans, Mr. Sabato said, are also likely to attack Mr. Deeds on gun control and same-sex marriage, claiming that his positions have grown more liberal.
 ''The charge is dubious on guns,'' Mr. Sabato said, ''and on gays, McDonnell has to be careful not to reinforce the criticism that he is too far to the right for the new moderate Virginia.''
 Mr. Deeds supports abortion rights and an amendment prohibiting the Confederate flag emblem from being displayed on state license plates, but has been criticized as being too conservative on social issues like gun owners' rights. For example, he supports legislation permitting concealed firearms in bars. 
 But some gun control advocates said the criticism was unfounded.
 Doug Pennington, a spokesman for the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, which lobbies for gun control, pointed to Mr. Deeds's opposition to the possession of assault weapons, and his proposal to close the legal loophole that allows a wider range of purchases at gun shows.
 Mr. McDonnell, likewise, faces a political balancing act. 
 A social and fiscal conservative, he will need to appeal to swing voters, a strategy that has given Democrats their margin of victory in recent statewide elections. Toward this end, Mr. McDonnell has pressed a moderate platform, emphasizing the need to improve public education, ease traffic and bring jobs to Virginia. 
 At the same time, he has also appealed to his conservative base by promoting his opposition to abortion and his support for drilling offshore for oil and natural gas. 
 Democrats say Mr. McDonnell's fiscal conservatism poorly serves the state. As proof, they cite his role in helping to defeat an effort to use $125 million in federal stimulus money to expand unemployment benefits for the state's unemployed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: R. Creigh Deeds at a Democratic unity rally on Wednesday in Richmond, Va. With him, from left, were his primary rivals, Brian J. Moran and Terry McAuliffe, and Gov. Tim Kaine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LAWYERS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); FUNDRAISING (61%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TIM KAINE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JAMES P MORAN (79%); MICHAEL STEELE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



293 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Effort To Rescue Automakers Is Defended

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
By investing billions of dollars in General Motors and Chrysler, the government ''saved hundreds of thousands of jobs'' and gave the carmakers a chance to be ''viable, competitive American businesses'' again, a leader of president Obama's auto industry task force testified on Wednesday.
 Ron Bloom, a senior adviser to the task force, told the Senate banking committee that while the government's intervention was undesirable, it was also necessary to prevent ''substantial job loss with a ripple effect throughout our entire economy.'' 
 Workers and other stakeholders have made sacrifices, Mr. Bloom said, that will allow G.M. and Chrysler to thrive without having to ask for more government help.
 He spoke a few hours after Chrysler completed its alliance with the Italian automaker Fiat, largely ending its quick trip through bankruptcy. G.M., which filed for Chapter 11 protection June 1, continues to reorganize.
 The government has lent G.M. and Chrysler more than $30 billion since December, including $6.6 billion to Chrysler on Wednesday. It has lined up $30 billion more in financing to help G.M. emerge from bankruptcy.
 ''It is our absolute intent that this be the last assistance provided to these companies,'' Mr. Bloom said.
 In return, the government will own as much as 60 percent of the reorganized G.M. and 8 percent of Chrysler. Mr. Bloom said the government intended to sell its stakes as soon as possible but that for now, the ownership position protected the taxpayers' investments.
 ''There is a reasonable probability that we can get most if not all of our money back,'' he said, though adding that there were situations in which the government could take a heavy loss.
 Mr. Bloom could not say how soon the government would be able to sell its Chrysler stake but acknowledged it would not happen immediately. He said that G.M. was expected to become a public company again sometime in 2010.
 ''Yesterday would not be soon enough for me,'' the committee's chairman, Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, said. ''I want to see us get out of this business.''
 The committee called Mr. Bloom and Edward Montgomery, Mr. Obama's director for recovery for auto workers and communities, to discuss the rescue of G.M. and Chrysler and whether taxpayers would see a return.
 Few members questioned Mr. Montgomery. Instead they spent much of the two and a half hours pressing Mr. Bloom to explain why G.M. and Chrysler had chosen to close plants and dealers in certain states. More than half of the committee's members are from states where plants or at least 10 Chrysler dealers are being closed. Chrysler has eliminated 789 dealers, a quarter of its network, and G.M. is cutting about 40 percent of its nearly 6,000 dealers.
 Senator Mike Johanns, Republican of Nebraska, said the administration, by virtue of its stake in the automakers, appears ''heartless and indifferent'' as so many workers lose their jobs.
 ''Unfortunately it is the taxpayers' money that you are largely managing,'' said Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, a state where 50 Chrysler dealers were closed, ''and I just think we have a requirement not only to help the people where plants are closed but the many communities and dealers that are getting shafted.''
 But Mr. Bloom said decisions on plant closing and dealer terminations, though necessary, were made by company executives and not government officials. 
 He said the government would ''not interfere with or exert control over day-to-day company operations.'' 
 ''We intend to be essentially a passive shareholder who is trying to get our money back so we can give it to the American people,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bloom said President Obama did not want to spend billions of dollars saving G.M. and Chrysler but felt the alternative would have been much worse.
 ''In a better world, the choice to intervene in the companies would not have had to be made,'' he said. ''But amid the worst economic crisis in three quarters of a century, the administration's decisions avoided a devastating liquidation and put a stop to the long practice in the auto industry of kicking hard problems down the road.''
 Mr. Bloom's comments did not seem to appease the senators who argued against helping the automakers last fall.
 Richard Shelby of Alabama, the committee's ranking Republican, called the administration's efforts ''disturbing'' and suggested that the government would continue to throw money at General Motors ''to keep a few people employed.'' (G.M. has 235,000 employees globally.)
 Mr. Shelby paused, then added, ''Well, maybe more than a few.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Bloom arrived to testify Wednesday before a Senate committee. He said the government saved many thousands of jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (68%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (84%); F (BIT) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



294 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: And Now, It's Crunch Time for Timeshares

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
FOR years, people eager to find a cheaper alternative to buying a vacation home have chosen timeshares as a guaranteed way to have a place in a desirable resort. Although they faced additional costs like yearly fees for upkeep and a percentage of the resort's property taxes, they could vacation in the same unit or even exchange their timeshare for use at partner resorts.
 But now many timeshare owners are scrambling to get rid of their units, even at a considerable loss, to escape fees and, in some cases, mortgages.
 The upside to this trend is that a handful of buyers are picking up some great deals, and resorts that were often hard to get into or were too expensive have now become available and more affordable. 
 Ava Dunlow of St. Simons Island, Ga., was searching on eBay for timeshares when she saw a listing she couldn't believe. A summer week at the Sea Scape Beach & Golf Villas in Kitty Hawk, N.C., where her family already owned two weeks, was up for sale. A two-bedroom lockout, a unit that can be separated into two apartments, was selling for considerably less than the $3,000 she paid for a smaller unit several years ago.
 ''When I saw it for $500 on eBay, I had to buy it,'' said Ms. Dunlow, 60. ''I've started to get a little bit of the fever. I've got to quit buying, so I don't have too many maintenance fees.''
 Timeshare sales dropped 8 percent last year, the first time sales have fallen since the American Resort Development Association began tracking sales 34 years ago. In 2007, timeshare sales rose 6 percent from 2006, to $10.6 billion. 
 ''Timeshares used to be the little engine that could, whether the economy was up or down,'' said Howard Nusbaum, the association's president and chief executive. ''We were the one piece that always outperformed the market.''
 Today as Americans pull back on traveling and rein in their spending, developers, like Marriott International, Starwood Hotels & Resorts and Wyndham Worldwide, are closing sales centers, suspending new projects and reporting drops in timeshare sales. 
 For individual owners who want to unload their timeshares, selling in a recession has grown more difficult. Prices have slumped as timeshare listings have grown on eBay and Craigslist, so sellers must now offer more to stand out. High on the list are offers to pay closing costs and maintenance fees; sometimes bonus weeks are even thrown in to sweeten the deal.
 ''This is the best time to buy and the absolutely worst time to sell,'' said Brian Rogers, the owner of the Timeshare Users Group (www.tug2.net), an online service in Orange Park, Fla. ''A few years ago you got 50 cents on the dollar. Now you're lucky if you get 10 cents on the dollar.'' 
 If a seller is still paying a mortgage on a timeshare, it can be nearly impossible to sell a unit because most buyers won't take over loan payments. 
 Five years ago, India and Roscoe Johns bought a weeklong timeshare in Kissimmee, Fla., for just over $11,000 because they thought it would be a good way to vacation with family. They never had time to return, however, and decided to sell it last year when Ms. Johns lost her job and her husband's overtime was reduced. With $9,000 still owed on the unit, they have not found a buyer and have fallen behind on their payments. Her calls to the resort for financial assistance have gone nowhere, Ms. Johns said. 
 ''We still are paying what we can or whenever we can, and they've been accepting it,'' said Ms. Johns, 37, of Hanover, Md. ''I've thought about foreclosure.''
 Some sellers and resort operators are resorting to more drastic measures. Cindy Montrose, an owner and board member at a Colorado timeshare, has been giving away weeks on behalf of the resort for the last year to anyone who will take one. The units are two and three bedrooms and are near well-known ski resorts.
 The catch? Anyone who wanted a week had to pay an $11 county filing fee and assume an annual maintenance fee of $380 to $420.
 It's the only way she can fill up the resort, Twin Rivers, and collect more maintenance fees to renovate the 1960s-era complex. Some owners have just stopped paying the annual charges.
 ''There are people we can't foreclose on because we can't find them,'' Ms. Montrose, 54, said. 
 For George Marine of Commack on Long Island, Ms. Montrose's deal was too good to pass up. He had bought three other timeshares in the last year at deep discounts, but had never snapped up one under terms like these. Shortly after he saw the ad on a timeshare Web site, he contacted the resort and said he wanted one of the three-bedroom units. 
 ''What downside is there?'' said Mr. Marine, 40, who owns nine timeshares over all. ''I didn't plan on buying four, but the prices were ridiculous.''
 Mr. Marine said one of the first things he looked for was a reasonable maintenance fee. His most profitable timeshare is his two-bedroom unit at the St. James Club Resort & Villas in Antigua, for which he pays $525 in annual fees for each week. He has considered using the unit himself but can't turn down the money. Each May, the same person rents the apartment for $2,350 a week. 
 ''I'm definitely coming out ahead,'' he said. 
 A CHANGING BUSINESS PICTURE
 The turnaround in the timeshare business has meant big changes for the top players in the industry.
 Wyndham Worldwide is reducing timeshare sales and trimming 4,000 jobs in its timeshare division because of a lack of financing. The hotel giant, whose brands include Super 8 and Ramada, expects sales this year of $1.2 billion, down from $2 billion in 2008.
 ''At the time we made the decision, towards the end of 2008, it was unclear if the capital markets would ever open again,'' said Stephen Holmes, Wyndham's chief executive.
 The outlook has dimmed for prospective buyers, too. Before the bust, hotel companies routinely offered financing up to 90 percent of the purchase price on timeshares. 
 ''If you could sign your name and you wanted to buy it, they would sell it to you,'' said John Melicharek, head of the hospitality industry practice at the law firm of Baker Hostetler in Orlando, Fla.
 Timeshare companies now demand that buyers have higher down payments and good credit scores to qualify for a loan. At Marriott International, 80 percent of buyers used to receive financing, but now only half do, said Ed Kinney, vice president for corporate affairs at Marriott Vacation Club International in Orlando. Wyndham, which once required a 10 to 15 percent down payment, has since increased it to 15 to 20 percent, Mr. Holmes said. 
 Starwood has cut back incentives, like free nights, for owners. ''Obviously, we're watching every dollar,'' said David Matheson, spokesman for Starwood Vacation Ownership in Orlando.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HARD SELL: Cindy and Rick Montrose at Twin Rivers in Colorado, where Ms. Montrose says weeks are essentially being given away to bolster resort fees.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C33)
 OPPORTUNITY: George Marine and his wife, Christine. The slump has allowed him to invest in more timeshares.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORP (52%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (52%); CRAIGSLIST INC (51%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (84%); WYN (NYSE) (52%); HOT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



295 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: In Note, More Clues to Killing at Holocaust Museum

BYLINE: By THEO EMERY and LIZ ROBBINS; Theo Emery reported from Washington, and Liz Robbins from New York. A. G. Sulzberger contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Stephen Tyrone Johns opened a door of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum on Wednesday afternoon, witnesses said, probably thinking that James W. von Brunn was just another elderly visitor needing help to get inside.
 Mr. Johns apparently did not notice that Mr. von Brunn, 88, whose anti-Semitic and white supremacist views were known to federal authorities, was carrying a .22-caliber rifle at his side, law enforcement officials said Thursday. Mr. von Brunn stepped into the lobby, raised the weapon and shot Mr. Johns in the upper chest at close range, officials said. Mr. Johns died a few hours later.
 Two armed security guards fired back, wounding Mr. von Brunn in the face and sending panicked tourists, including groups of schoolchildren, diving for cover. 
 Mr. von Brunn, who was in critical condition at George Washington University Hospital, was charged with murder on Thursday in the death of Mr. Johns, 39, from Temple Hills, Md. The victim, who worked for the private security company Wackenhut Services Inc., had been assigned to the museum for six years. 
 The rifle was recovered at the scene, and Mr. von Brunn was also charged with possessing and shooting a firearm in a federal building. Federal Bureau of Investigation authorities are pursuing civil rights and hate crimes charges against Mr. von Brunn, who is thought to have acted alone. 
 A notebook that law enforcement officers discovered in Mr. von Brunn's 2002 red Hyundai, which he had double-parked outside the museum's 14th Street entrance on Wednesday, appeared to offer insight into his mind-set before the shooting. 
 ''You want my weapons -- this is how you'll get them,'' Mr. von Brunn wrote in a note he had signed, according to the arrest affidavit. 
 ''The Holocaust is a lie,'' the note read. ''Obama was created by Jews. Obama does what his Jew owners tell him to do. Jews captured America's money. Jews control the mass media.''
 Mr. von Brunn's note refers to himself in the third person by his initials, JVB, saying that he swore ''to defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic.'' 
 He lashes out at Jews and includes the name of his book, ''Kill the Best Gentiles!'' 
 The shooting was the third publicized anti-Semitic incident in the last five weeks. In early May, a Wesleyan University student of Jewish heritage was fatally shot on the Connecticut campus by a man who had written in his personal journal that he thought it was ''O.K. to kill Jews.'' 
 In mid-May, four men were arrested in the attempted bombing of two Bronx synagogues. 
 The F.B.I. said Mr. von Brunn -- best known to law enforcement authorities for walking into the Federal Reserve System headquarters in Washington on Dec. 7, 1981, with a bag containing a revolver, a hunting knife and a sawed-off shotgun -- was not under investigation at the time of Wednesday's shooting. But the assistant F.B.I. director for the District of Columbia, Joseph Persichini Jr., said the bureau knew he had an ''established Web site that expressed hatred of African-Americans and Jews.'' 
 Mr. von Brunn's actions were ''not what this country stands for,'' Mr. Persichini said, adding that it was important to send a message that the F.B.I. would stop ''other Mr. von Brunns that are around here in this nation today.''
 Mr. von Brunn, who lived in Lebanon, N.H., at the time of the Federal Reserve incident, told the police he wanted to take Fed board members hostage to focus attention on their responsibility for high interest rates and the nation's economic difficulties. 
 Local and federal authorities in Washington said Thursday that they were focusing on Mr. von Brunn's intentions and how he got the rifle. Because of his felony conviction in the crime at the Federal Reserve, he was prohibited by federal law from buying or possessing a gun. But Mr. von Brunn could have had the rifle, described by the authorities as ''an older weapon,'' since well before his conviction.
 Mr. von Brunn brought a .22-caliber rifle and a .30-30 rifle when he moved into an apartment in Annapolis, Md., two years ago, according to the affidavit. The police recovered the .30-30 as well as ammunition for a .22 from his bedroom after the museum attack. 
 Twice divorced, Mr. von Brunn was living in the apartment with his son from his second marriage, Erik von Brunn, 32, and his son's fiancee, Brandy Teel, the affidavit said. The couple leased the apartment, and Mr. Brunn rented a room for $400 a month, the authorities said Ms. Teel told them. 
 ''We have no information that Mr. von Brunn had any accomplices or conspirators to assist him in this act,'' Mr. Persichini of the F.B.I. said Thursday at a news conference near the Mall, a block from the museum.
 There, Mayor Adrian M. Fenty of Washington praised the split-second reaction of the guards who returned Mr. von Brunn's fire. 
 ''One life lost is a tragedy, but this could have been much, much worse,'' the mayor said. 
 The Holocaust museum was closed Thursday in memory of Mr. Johns, but will reopen Friday. 
 On Mr. von Brunn's Web site, HolyWesternEmpire.org, he proclaimed his disbelief in the existence of the Holocaust, and promoted, ''Kill the Best Gentiles,'' a screed in which he claims to reveal a Jewish conspiracy to ''destroy the white gene-pool.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officials examine the doors of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HOLOCAUST (90%); MURDER (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); EYEWITNESSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (69%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); CHILDREN (54%)

COMPANY: WACKENHUT SERVICES INC (69%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



296 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: At Last, Some Joy in Detroit

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley and Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The Motor City has been hit by pretty much every crisis imaginable this last year, save for famine and a plague of grasshoppers.
 Its mayor resigned and went to jail. Two of its three car companies wound up in bankruptcy. Unemployment soared to the highest level for any metropolitan area in the nation, and the wrecking crews showed up to take apart Detroit's beloved Tiger Stadium.
 But this week, sports is providing a much-needed lift to this beaten-down city. 
 The Red Wings face the Pittsburgh Penguins in Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals Friday night, and Detroit is hoping for a repeat of last year's championship. 
 The Detroit Tigers are also first in the American League Central. The Nascar LifeLock 400 will be raced this weekend at Michigan International Speedway, 75 miles to the southwest in Brooklyn, Mich. (Kid Rock, a hometown favorite, will be the grand marshal.)
 The Red Wings' battle through the playoffs to the finals has riveted fans and given them something to think about other than bleak news about the auto industry.
 ''It doesn't take away the pain, but it definitely distracts from the pain,'' Jon Reyes, 51, an official with United Automobile Workers Local 735, said Thursday. The union represents the transmission plant in Ypsilanti, Mich., that G.M. plans to close next year. 
 ''I'll be elated when the Red Wings win the Cup tomorrow,'' Reyes said. ''It will put all the doom and gloom aside for a couple days and just talk about the Wings.''
 Red Wings players, many of whom have grown traditional playoff beards, know they bear a special burden in giving Detroit a reason to celebrate.
 ''This has been an unbelievable run for our city and for our state, just because of the economy here,'' Red Wings Coach Mike Babcock said. ''It's been absolutely fantastic. Now we've got to finish it off.''
 That was something the Michigan State men's basketball team failed to do in April, when the Spartans made it to the Final Four, only to lose to North Carolina in the championship game played at Ford Field, only a short drive from Joe Louis Arena, where Game 7 will take place.
 And certainly the Detroit Lions, who play at Ford Field, dropped the ball -- literally and figuratively -- losing all 16 games last season.
 The Red Wings' matchup against the Penguins is also delivering grudge-match drama, providing extra diversion for a city in need of it.
 Marian Hossa left the Penguins last July to sign a one-year, $7.45 million deal with the Red Wings, which he said had a better shot of winning a Stanley Cup. That earned him boos from Pittsburgh's rabid, towel-waving fans, but he has won a loyal following since he arrived in Detroit. 
 One mecca for fans is Cheli's Chili Bar, owned by the veteran defenseman Chris Chelios. The walls are lined with black and white photos of legendary players like Gordie Howe and Sid Abel. (The boss is always present, too, in the form of a five-foot-tall cutout of Chelios.)
 A large blue and black banner hangs inside, with the words ''Stanley Cup Changes Everything.'' Last year, after the Red Wings' victory, Chelios took the Cup into the bar.
 ''Success here will bring the people close together. People will put aside their differences,'' said Dave Bruner, who was enjoying a beer on his day off from his job with DTE Energy. ''It will be like family, a family that's struggled together, lost jobs together.''
 The Red Wings also are a big business for bars like Cheli's, where fans have flocked to watch its 36 flat-screen televisions because they can no longer afford tickets to the game, said Megan Dieringer, the bar's manager. (One ticket resale site, marketplacedetroit.com, offered seats to Friday night's game for as much as $3,102 apiece, six times the face value, according to Ticketmaster.)
 ''This was a rough winter for Detroit,'' Dieringer said. ''It's hard being on the front page with bad news all the time.''
 Cheli's, which has a capacity of 500 people, has added an outdoor tent and expects to serve up to 10,000 cans of beer and 3,000 burgers Friday night, Dieringer said.
 While the actual Stanley Cup has made the occasional appearance inside Cheli's, there are 10 replicas inside Hockeytown, a 10,000-square-foot, three-story bar that has 34 TVs and a 400-seat theater where the game will be broadcast.
 The excitement over the Red Wings even spills across the Detroit River to Windsor, Ontario, said Patrick Persichilli, vice president of the Windsor-Essex Development Commission, who was waiting for a friend inside Hockeytown on Thursday. 
 ''It makes people feel that, in spite of the recession, there's something good going on,'' he said. ''Our sports represent the true spirit of the city.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Red Wings fans showing their city pride during the Stanley Cup finals against the Penguins. Game 7 is Friday night in Detroit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES)
The Tigers lead the American League Central, easing the sting of two automakers in bankruptcy.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); CITIES (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); AUTO RACING (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (72%); NASCAR RACING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%)

COMPANY: LIFELOCK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT RED WINGS (93%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (83%); DETROIT TIGERS (83%)

TICKER: LOCK (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812990 ALL OTHER PERSONAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



297 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: The Scullery Maid Behind the Brocade at Mansion Museums

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

DATELINE: NEWPORT, R.I. 

 BODY:
Visitors to the Breakers, the Vanderbilt family's 1895 estate, take a new route this year through the 70-room mansion here. Now, besides walking past the gilded parlors and bedrooms with ocean views, they see cramped workspaces for butlers, footmen and housemaids. Tours of the house, which became a museum in 1948, now reveal whitewashed closets and dark pantries and corridors that snake among the lavish rooms. 
 The tours, which encompass narrow back staircases and long clothing racks with carved wooden hangers for scores of gowns (the Vanderbilts typically changed outfits a half-dozen times a day), are accompanied by audio commentary from blunt, almost embittered retired servants and their children.
 A cook's daughter describes her mother's bedroom at the Breakers as ''very, very small and very hot,'' with a meager mattress: ''It had springs that would come up and hit you in one side.'' A former footman recalls spending entire days just polishing brass or waiting on tables while female dinner guests ignored him. As he stood holding out heavy trays of food, he explains on the audio narration, he would imagine taking revenge: ''You think about dropping the whole thing in her lap.'' 
 Reaction to the voices of the oppressed has been enthusiastic, said John R. Tschirch, director of academic programs for the Preservation Society of Newport County, which owns the Breakers and 10 other sites(newportmansions.org). ''People love the stories about how servants were meant to be invisible here, as if the house ran by magic,'' he said. ''The historically marginalized have a presence here again.''
 The Preservation Society, like house museum operators across the country, is hoping to increase attendance in a tough economy by focusing on artifacts from 18-hour Victorian workdays rather than on pampered folk spending their lives dissipating inheritances.
 ''It's a national trend, no doubt,'' said Terry Davis, president of the American Association for State and Local History. ''Visitors have told curators, 'We want to know less about the dead white males and their stuff, and more about the common man and daily life.' And museums can talk about these issues now, issues that were considered uncomfortable and kept under the rug even just a decade ago.''
 Adding fresh viewpoints can be expensive. Tudor Place, an 1816 house in Washington built by a granddaughter of Martha Washington, has spent $100,000 replicating a 1914 kitchen wing down to the strawberry scoops and spring-mounted call bells. But the investment is paying off. ''We have had a rise in attendance,'' from both tourists and from local residents, who might otherwise have visited only once, said Leslie L. Buhler, executive director of the museum (tudorplace.org). 
 As soon as Biltmore, the Vanderbilts' 250-room house in Asheville, N.C., opened its fourth-floor servants' bedrooms four years ago, complete with oil lamps and simulated family photos, ''we had a tremendous jump in visitation,'' said Darren Poupore, the house's chief curator. This summer he plans to fill a bedroom with Victorian gowns half-packed into steamer trunks, and to display hatboxes and starched shirts on closet racks so that visitors better understand the frantic lives of valets and maids trying to keep employers well dressed.
 Biltmore visitors ''are still intrigued with how the rich and famous lived in the largest house in America, but the servants' long hours and heavy responsibilities -- that's something people can more identify with,'' Mr. Poupore said (biltmore.com).
 Poplar Forest, Thomas Jefferson's retreat near Lynchburg, Va., has almost doubled its attendance this spring, officials said, and the new attraction is a rear kitchen wing recreating one razed in the 1840s. Jefferson held family gatherings on the kitchen roof, contemplating his gardens and farmlands from the deck while slaves bustled below. ''We've definitely deepened our ability to talk about the complexity of history here, all the layers and interactions,'' said Travis McDonald, the museum's architectural restoration director (poplarforest.org).
 In July costumed docents will start cooking meals on the kitchen's reproduction stove grills and hearth. ''There'll be real smoke blackening the bricks again,'' Mr. McDonald said. ''And it'll be a hot room with strong smells on a hot day, just as it was in Jefferson's time.'' The docents will explain that Jefferson's slave housekeeper Hannah probably learned French culinary techniques from James Hemings, a Jefferson slave (and brother of Sally Hemings) who trained at Paris restaurants in the 1780s. 
 Uncovering more names and biographical details for slaves and servants has become a major preoccupation at house museums. Last fall Montpelier, James Madison's house in Orange, Va., unveiled photos and documents related to Paul Jennings, a slave who served in the White House as a teenager(montpelier.org). At Decatur House, an 1818 brick town house in Washington, an exhibition about African-American residents contains documents from Charlotte Dupuy, a slave who futilely sued her owner, the politician Henry Clay, to comply with a previous owner's promise to free her family (decaturhouse.org). 
 Unsolved mysteries about slaves and servants also make for memorable displays lately at house museums. At Van Cortlandt Manor, an 18th-century farmstead in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., the staff is now developing a simulation of a room for a slave couple, Ishmael and Sib, and their daughter, Abby, who lived at the farm around 1800. 
 ''We've put out straw mattresses and rough wool blankets on the floor,'' said Kathleen Eagen Johnson, curator for Historic Hudson Valley, which runs Van Cortlandt Manor and six other nearby landmarks (historichudsonvalley.org). The crude beds, she said, are replicas, because no original examples have been found. ''Those are the kinds of humble, hard-working objects that would have been used up and thrown away,'' she said.
 She is looking for an 18th-century violin, or a convincing copy, to add to the room, because Ishmael was a skilled musician. ''We know from a family letter that he infuriated his owners by taking side jobs playing the fiddle at dances in the area called frolicks,'' Ms. Johnson said. The violin, she added, ''will help us show how this family was able to push back against slavery, in a small way, and have a role in the community that their owners couldn't control.''
 Docents will also explain that the Van Cortlandts paid for Abby's schooling. ''But we don't know how long she was able to attend, or what became of her as an adult,'' Ms. Johnson said. Without recorded last names, slaves are hard to trace in archives. So Abby will most likely remain a cipher at the manor, while a straw mattress on the floor bears the kind of small dent she would have made sleeping beside her parents. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Upstairs, downstairs: The kitchen is included in a new tour of the servants' realm at the Breakers, the 19th-century mansion built by the Vanderbilt family in Newport, R.I.
 Seventy rooms to vacuum and dust: the Breakers.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM PRESERVATION SOCIETY OF NEWPORT COUNTY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MEN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); HISTORY (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); TRENDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PRESERVATION SOCIETY OF NEWPORT COUNTY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (93%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



298 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: A $1.33 Trillion Drop in Net Worth in First Quarter

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
American households lost $1.33 trillion of their wealth in the first three months as the recession took a bite out of stock portfolios and dragged down home prices.
 The Federal Reserve reported Thursday that household net worth fell to $50.38 trillion in the January-March quarter, the lowest level since the third quarter of 2004. The first-quarter figure was a decline of 2.6 percent, or $1.33 trillion, from the final quarter of 2008. 
 Net worth represents total assets like homes and checking accounts, minus liabilities like mortgages and credit card debt.
 The damage to wealth in the first quarter came from the sinking stock market. The value of Americans' stock holdings dropped 5.8 percent from the final quarter of last year.
 Another hit came from falling house prices. The value of household real-estate holdings fell 2.4 percent. Collectively, homeowners had 41.4 percent equity in their homes in the first quarter. That was down from 42.9 percent in the fourth quarter.
 The latest snapshot of Americans' balance sheets was contained in the Fed's quarterly report called the flow of funds.
 Despite the drop, the speed at which net worth shrunk slowed to start the year. During the recession's deepest point in the October-December period, Americans' net worth fell 8.6 percent, according to revised figures.
 With wealth declining and unemployment rising, there are questions about how consumers -- the lifeblood of the economy -- will behave in the coming months.
 If they continue to spend, even at a subdued pace, the recession probably will end this year as predicted by the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and other economists. If consumers hunker down and cut spending again, however, recovery could be delayed. In the fourth quarter, Americans slashed spending at an annualized rate of 4.3 percent, the most in 28 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (70%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



299 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Recovery Could Outstrip Europe's Pace

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
There was more evidence Thursday that the United States economy might be stabilizing, if not rebounding, even as economic reports in Europe remained gloomy.
 The American news -- showing slight growth in retail sales and a dip in first-time jobless claims, as well as rising stocks -- was not enough to end the disagreement between bulls and bears over how soon the economy would improve. 
 But the apparent divergence of fortunes between America and Europe highlighted the different approaches to solving the financial crisis, and why some economists say the more aggressive American strategy may be working better, at least for now. 
 It is a debate that is likely to be one of the issues dominating discussions when finance ministers from the eight largest economies meet in Italy this weekend.
 Some private economists are even predicting that the American economy will resume growth in the fourth quarter, while Europe's economy is expected to remain in recession well into 2010, after contracting an estimated 4.2 percent this year compared with an expected 2.8 percent decline in the United States.
 ''The shock originated in the U.S., but Europe is paying a higher price,'' said Jean Pisani-Ferry, a former top financial adviser to the French government who is now director of Bruegel, a research center in Brussels. 
 Almost from the beginning of the crisis, the United States and Europe chose largely different paths to aiding their economies. The most stark was Washington's willingness to commit hundreds of billions of dollars to stimulus spending -- in addition to moving aggressively to shore up banks and keep credit flowing -- versus Europe's worry that similar spending would increase inflation in the future.
 Just as the policies pursued during the Great Depression have been dissected ever since by economists, the fate of the United States and Europe as the two regions emerge from the global crisis will be analyzed for decades to come.
 The lessons will not only guide policy makers in future crises, but also could redefine the debate over how much state intervention in the economy is appropriate.
 ''History is one big laboratory experiment that only gets run once,'' said Niall Ferguson, an economic historian at Harvard who has been one of the loudest critics of the White House's spending initiatives.
 The argument behind the American approach -- staggering stimulus spending -- is that the economy must be prevented from falling into a self-perpetuating downward spiral, and that increasing the deficit to do that is prudent. 
 One crucial concern about America's increased deficit spending -- that it would lead investors to demand higher interest rates on United States debt, making it far more expensive to borrow and slowing the economy -- has been allayed, for now. An auction on Thursday of $11 billion in 30-year Treasury bonds found enthusiastic buyers, helping to push the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a seven-month high.
 But it is impossible to know how much the apparent, if nascent, stabilization of the American economy comes from the stimulus spending and how much from moves like propping up the banking and credit systems, especially because much of the stimulus money has yet to make it to the economy. 
 ''I think America is further ahead in terms of fixing problems with the banks,'' said Mr. Pisani-Ferry, ''and countries like Germany have been hurt tremendously by the decline in world trade.''
 Figures released this week showed that German exports plunged 28.7 percent in April from a year earlier, the steepest drop since the government began keeping records in 1950.
 Still, some experts say that Europe's approach could pay off over the longer run.
 There remains a significant risk that deficit spending in the United States could lead to inflation in the long run. Concern over the deficit has already led to a sharp rise in interest rates in the last month. A continued rise could threaten any American recovery.
 And while its growth is expected to be muted for years, Europe will not be burdened by as much debt as the United States, having avoided big stimulus spending.
 Moreover, many American financial institutions remain larded with bad loans. And some of the banks the government recently allowed to leave the Troubled Asset Relief Program could need additional government help if the economy worsened instead of rebounding.
 Underscoring the risk that hopes for a quick turnaround anywhere may be premature, the World Bank said Thursday that it expected the global economy to shrink by nearly 3 percent in 2009, far deeper than the 1.7 percent contraction it predicted just over two months ago. 
 And both Europe and the United States face the specter of rapidly rising unemployment, even if a rebound is beginning.
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates that from 2007 to 2010, developed economies will have shed some 25 million jobs. The unemployment rate in both the euro zone and the United States is expected to rise above 10 percent next year.
 ''That pace of increase has never been experienced in the postwar period,'' said Jonathan Coppel, a senior economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. ''This is going to create a headwind.''
 When the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, first met with other finance ministers representing the 20 largest economies in March, he urged his European counterparts to increase stimulus spending. But in Italy, Mr. Geithner will press them to replicate the stress tests applied to American banks.
 During a conference call with reporters Thursday, Robert B. Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, reiterated the need for such tests. 
 ''A stimulus without getting the credit markets working again is like a sugar high,'' Mr. Zoellick said. ''I would put a higher focus on getting credit markets working again, getting banks recapitalized and cleaning up bad debts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cars awaiting delivery in Munich. Europe's economy is expected to contract 4.2 percent this year, versus 2.8 percent in America.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DALDER/REUTERS)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); HISTORY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); BONDS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



300 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Exxon, in Switch, Joins Plan to Build 1,700-Mile Natural Gas Pipeline From Alaska

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
In a surprising about-face, Exxon Mobil said Thursday that it would work with a Canadian pipeline operator, TransCanada, to build an ambitious natural gas pipeline from Alaska, the latest twist in long and protracted efforts to bring Alaska's vast gas supplies to the United States mainland.
 The participation of Exxon, which holds the largest natural gas reserves on Alaska's North Slope, lends credibility to a plan by TransCanada that last year won Alaska's competition to build a 1,700-mile pipeline. It also deals a blow to a rival project from BP and ConocoPhillips and introduces more uncertainty into one of Alaska's biggest political and economic debates. 
 The competition to build a gas pipeline was set up by Gov. Sarah Palin, who had been critical of the slow pace at which oil companies, including Exxon, were moving. 
 Financial details of Exxon's participation were sketchy on Thursday, but TransCanada said it would retain the majority interest in the project. Both companies essentially invited BP and Conoco to abandon their rival effort, saying they would be welcome to join the TransCanada plan. 
 ''It has always been our position that the project will require the support of all the North Slope producers, the state of Alaska and TransCanada, and we will need to work with them,'' Marty Massey, a senior executive with the Exxon Mobil Production Company, said during a conference call. 
 Rumors of Exxon's entry to the project had been swirling for several days in Alaska. With production from the Prudhoe Bay oil field declining, Alaskans have been hoping for years that natural gas would take over as the state's financial mainstay.
 Alaska's estimated 35 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves are now being reinjected into oil fields or left in the ground because there is no way to get the fuel to consumers. 
 With Exxon and TransCanada on one side, and BP and Conoco on the other, there are two contenders for what would be the biggest civil engineering project in North America, and one of the most challenging. It would dwarf the 800-mile trans-Alaska oil pipeline, a momentous project that was completed in 1977. 
 BP and Conoco said their joint pipeline project, called Denali, was going forward. But both said they would be open to alternative plans. 
 Charlie Rowton of ConocoPhillips said, ''We do believe the opportunity exists for more collaboration among key stakeholders interested in an Alaska gas pipeline project.'' 
 Steve Rinehart, a BP spokesman, said, ''BP as a producer and prospective shipper will consider any viable project to deliver gas to market.'' 
 TransCanada has estimated that the project would cost $30 billion. It would stretch roughly 1,700 miles from the North Slope of Alaska through Yukon and northeastern British Columbia to the Alberta border near Boundary Lake. From there, it would connect to Alberta's existing gas infrastructure, which is linked to the United States.
 The pipe would have a daily capacity of six billion cubic feet of natural gas, or about 10 percent of current domestic consumption. It would begin operations in 2018.
 Building an Alaska gas pipeline has been sought for decades as a crucial element of the nation's energy security. But new drilling methods in places like Texas and Oklahoma have unlocked substantially more domestic gas reserves in recent years than most experts ever anticipated. Instead of a facing a potential gas shortage, the nation is looking at the possibility of a surplus.
 When Governor Palin took office in late 2006, she interrupted the negotiations that her predecessor, Frank H. Murkowski, had been pursuing with the North Slope oil operators, BP, Conoco and Exxon Mobil, to build a pipeline. After saying the talks were too secretive and not competitive, the governor sought to bring in new operators to secure better terms for Alaska. Late last year, Alaska picked TransCanada as its preferred operator after a competition that was shunned by the major companies, including Exxon.
 Tony Palmer, vice president of Alaska development for TransCanada, said the project would make economic sense as worldwide gas supplies tighten and prices rise, and he welcomed Exxon's decision to participate. 
 ''We think it is an important step forward,'' Mr. Palmer said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (94%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (93%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); ENGINEERING (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (96%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (96%); BP PLC (85%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (96%); COP (NYSE) (96%); BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (96%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (96%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (96%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (96%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (96%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (96%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (95%); YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



301 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Science, the Extravaganza

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
THE cosmic circus is back in town.
 The second annual World Science Festival, a five-day extravaganza of performances, debates, celebrations and demonstrations, including an all-day street fair on Sunday in Washington Square Park, began with a star-studded gala tribute to the Harvard biologist Edward O. Wilson at Lincoln Center Wednesday night. Over the next three days the curious will have to make painful choices: attend an investigation of the effects of music on the brain with a performance by Bobby McFerrin, or join a quest for a long-lost mural by Leonardo Da Vinci at the Metropolitan Museum of Art? Learn about the science behind ''Battlestar Galactica'' with actors from the show, or head to one of various panels of scientists and philosophers arguing about free will, alternate universes, science and religion, time and what it means to be human?
 On Saturday there's a chance to play naturalist, scouring a pair of New York parks under professional guidance in what Dr. Wilson calls a ''BioBlitz'' for flora, fauna and ''all things crawly.'' On Sunday you can get your hands in a variety of experiments at the street fair, including a ''CSI''-style crime scene. 
 The festival is the brainchild of Brian Greene, a Columbia University physicist and mathematician and best-selling author, and his wife, Tracy Day, a former producer for ABC. They say they thought of the project after attending a science festival in Genoa, Italy, and being impressed by seeing science bubbling through the streets and cafes.
 The idea is to mix up art, theater and music with the inevitable talking heads and professional interlocutors like Charlie Rose or Alan Alda, who can keep the discussion moving and down to earth, in order to entice an audience that didn't know it was interested in science. Ms. Day likes to describe the strategy this way: ''Bring them in for the art and have them leave with science.''
 Last year more than 100,000 people stood in block-long lines to watch dancers reinterpret string theory, Oliver Sacks interpret his own failing eyesight, scientists debate quantum mechanics and what it means to be human. There were about 46 events, including a daylong street fair in Washington Square Park. In the end everything sold out, the organizers said.
 ''We learned that there is an untapped hunger in the public for a way into science.'' said Dr. Greene, who recently sat down with Mr. Alda (who was accompanied by a ghost Twitterer), to discuss the festival.
 Mr. Alda, perhaps best known as Hawkeye Pierce in ''M*A*S*H,'' is also longtime science buff and admits to wanting to be an inventor as a boy. Asked about the famous cultural divide between art and science he said that they are mutually reinforcing: ''Art needs rigor, and science needs creativity.''
 In a sort of smackdown between the two, art, represented by Mr. Alda, got the better of science, represented by Dr. Greene. Challenged to explain string theory, Mr. Alda produced a serviceable explanation: the smallest entities in nature are wriggling strings that take on different identities depending on how they vibrate. But Dr. Greene was stumped when asked to hum the theme song from ''M*A*S*H.'' 
 This year, because of the leaner economic climate, the festival offerings have been scaled back a bit to 40 events, including the street fair on Sunday in Washington Square Park. Ticket prices have also been reduced, Dr. Greene said. (Information on family activities: Spare Times, Page 24.)
 The festival is sponsored by 18 organizations, including the Simons Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the John Templeton Foundation.
 One of the biggest differences this year, Dr. Greene said, was symbolized by Wednesday night's gala in honor of Dr. Wilson. In addition to celebrating science, Dr. Greene explained, ''we also need to celebrate great scientists -- people who've profoundly changed our lives but are often barely known.'' 
 He said that future editions of the festival would feature other scientists: ''When kids look up to great scientists the way they do to great musicians and actors, civilization will jump to the next level.'' 
 Dr. Wilson, an expert and lover of ants, certainly qualifies. He has spent his career taking seriously the notion that the behavior of creatures is just as much a part of nature as hair color or cholesterol counts and so founded the field known as sociobiology. For his troubles he has won two Pulitzer prizes and had a pitcher of water dumped on his head by political activists worried about the implications of his work for human societies.
 Dr. Wilson's imprint on this year's festival extends beyond the opening gala and a dramatization of his life on Thursday by the actress Anna Deavere Smith. He will also be featured Friday night on a panel discussing what it means to be human. The topic this year will focus on altruism, a problem that has engaged many evolutionary biologists and philosophers over the years. On Sunday night Dr. Wilson will give a talk on his adventures ''BioBlitzing'' the world in search of new species. 
 On Wednesday, speaking at a rapturous reception after his birthday gala, Dr. Wilson called attention to what he called a lopsided emphasis in the current movement toward all things green on preserving the physical environment. More emphasis, he said, needs to be put on preserving the diverse forms of life on this planet, which are dying out at a shocking rate. If we devote ourselves to saving them, we will automatically fix the environment, he said.
 ''Species are dying,'' he said, ''while we stand here nattering.'' 
 More information about the festival and a schedule of events can be seen at worldsciencefestival.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); DANCERS (73%); ANIMALS (72%); BESTSELLERS (65%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (65%); WRITERS (65%); THEATER (58%); RELIGION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) ITALY (78%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



302 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Filings Fall, but Long-Term Claims Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The tally of newly laid-off Americans requesting jobless benefits fell for the third time in four weeks, a sign that companies are cutting fewer jobs.
 The Labor Department said Thursday that initial claims for unemployment insurance dropped last week by 24,000, to a seasonally adjusted 601,000. That's below analysts' estimates of 615,000.
 Continuing claims rose by 59,000, to 6.8 million, the highest on records dating to 1967. The department also revised last week's data, replacing what had been a drop of 15,000 with an increase of 6,000.
 That means continuing claims have risen to record levels for 19 consecutive weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



303 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 6081 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE TREASURE OF ULYSSES DAVIS,' through Sept. 6. Ulysses Davis (1914-1990) was a Savannah, Ga., barber who whittled and carved wooden sculptures in his shop when business was slow. Organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, this show is by far the largest presentation of Mr. Davis's sculpture to be seen outside Savannah and the first to reveal the full scope of his imagination. His best-known works, carvings of historical figures, take a backseat to hybrid beasts and hydra-headed figures. It makes clear that he wasn't just a patriotic folk artist, or an African-American artist affirming his heritage, or an inward-looking, visionary artist. He was all of these, which is to say that no single cliche of ''outsider'' art quite fits him. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org.20090611
 (Karen Rosenberg) 
 ASIA SOCIETY: YANG FUDONG: 'SEVEN INTELLECTUALS IN A BAMBOO FOREST,' through Sept. 13. Presented in its five-hour entirety for the first time in a United States museum, Mr. Yang's hypnotic, five-part black-and-white movie, ''Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest,'' tracks the dreamlike meanderings of a group of fashion-model-pretty young people, from a breathtaking mountain summit to a busy city where the disjunctive imagery becomes increasingly surrealistic and comical. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson)20090611
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090611
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GUSTAVE CAILLEBOTTE: IMPRESSIONIST PAINTINGS FROM PARIS TO THE SEA,' through July 5. Thirty-some years ago, the museum had a big success with a Caillebotte retrospective that more or less introduced American audiences to an artist who was an Impressionist by association rather than by style or temperament. His three best-known pictures, ''The Floor Scrapers,'' ''The Pont de l'Europe'' and ''Paris Street, Rainy Day,'' all grand urban scenes from the late 1870s, are absent from this show, which is a more modest enterprise than a survey, with emphasis falling on less-focused late work. But Caillebotte was a painter as interesting for his weaknesses as for his strengths, and any exposure is valuable. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20090611
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHIONING FELT,' through Sept. 7. Tribute is paid to the world's oldest textile (no loom required) in all its sturdy, cosseting, beautiful, shape-shifting, dye-friendly majesty. The show includes contemporary furnishings, garments, jewelry and room dividers, as well as two large installation works. The felt runs from raw to cooked -- that is furry to gossamer -- and in some of the most intriguing instances it is mated with lacquer, plastic, LED lights, metal or coral beads, as well as silk, linen or cotton. There are episodes of frivolity. A few earlier works -- including a Mongolian runner and a saddle blanket -- reunite function and decoration and distort familiar motifs in wonderful ways. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)20090611
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AVEDON FASHION: 1944-2000,' through Sept. 6. The first museum retrospective devoted to Richard Avedon's fashion photography exudes a contagious joie de vivre. With postwar Paris as a stage set, Avedon made fashion photography new by adding movement and then narrative to his images, along with ironic self-awareness and a buoyant exuberance. The best of his early images are as perfect as the best work of Jackson Pollock or Jasper Johns from this period and as profoundly representative of it. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, www.icp.org. (Smith)20090611
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'RECLAIMED: PAINTINGS FROM THE COLLECTION OF JACQUES GOUDSTIKKER,' through Aug. 2. This show of paintings returned to the family of Goudstikker, a prominent Dutch gallery owner who died while fleeing the Nazis, is many exhibitions in one. It's a portrait of an enormously successful art dealer who shaped tastes and markets between the wars. It's a marriage of Northern Baroque and Southern Renaissance painting. Most of all, it's an extraordinary, continuing tale of looting and restitution. At the center of all these stories is a small black notebook, used by Goudstikker to catalog his inventory of some 1,400 works and now on display, in actual and digitized form, at the Jewish Museum. Other highlights include a landscape by Salomon von Jacobsz Ruysdael and a portrait by Rembrandt's pupil Ferdinand Bol. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090611
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THEY CALLED ME MAYER JULY: PAINTED MEMORIES OF A JEWISH CHILDHOOD IN POLAND BEFORE THE HOLOCAUST,' through Oct. 1. Introducing the reluctant painter and accidental memoirist Mayer Kirschenblatt, now 92, who has devoted the last two decades to documenting life between the wars in and around the provincial city of Opatow (Apt in Yiddish), Poland. Wrought with irresistible detail and folk-art dispatch, the paintings begin with his mother's kitchen and reflect an omnivorous curiosity about everyday everything, aided by an apparently photographic memory. Labels pick up where the paintings leave off; words and images combine in a marvel of a book accomplished in collaboration with the artist's daughter, a folklorist whose career choice was shaped by her father's stories. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Smith)20090611
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART OF THE KOREAN RENAISSANCE, 1400-1600,' through June 21. The Korean gallery at the Met is a trim, tall, well-proportioned box of light. But it's just one room, and a smallish one at that, a reflection of the museum's modest holdings in art from this Asian country. So it's no surprise that the expansive-sounding show is a small thing too, with four dozen objects, most of them -- ceramic jars, lacquered boxes, scroll paintings -- compact enough to be stashed in a closet. But what it lacks in grandeur, it makes up for in fineness, and in rarity. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090611
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRANCIS BACON: A CENTENARY RETROSPECTIVE,' through Aug. 16. This 66-work survey starts with the stagy existentialism of Bacon's early work (the semihuman fiends, screaming popes, flanks of beef) and proceeds to the effulgent colors, insistent rhythms and true anguish of his grand triptychs and portraits. It suggests that his greatest achievement was his ability to paint convincingly men having sex and sometimes making love. As his hero Picasso had done for men and women, Bacon turned sexual passion into a pictorial event, using paint on canvas with finesse and no small sense of drama, while operating under cover of modernism. For once, the male gaze turned emphatically selfward. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090611
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIVING LINE: SELECTED INDIAN DRAWINGS FROM THE SUBHASH KAPOOR GIFT,' through Sept. 7. This almost supernaturally beautiful exhibition presents 40 mostly small drawings by Indian miniaturists of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Rendered with amazing skill, the subjects include bearded aristocrats and bejeweled women; hunting scenes; wild animals and mythic beasts fighting; and gods, goddesses and demons ascending and descending. The art of drawing does not get much better than this. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090611
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090611
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE PICTURES GENERATION, 1974-1984,' through Aug. 2. With this historical survey, the Met tackles a subject in American contemporary art -- namely, a critical and innovative body of media-influenced work produced between two major economic booms -- that has been begging for full-scale museum attention, and gives it the full old master treatment. Much of the art itself -- painting, drawing, sculpture, photography, video, installation, prints, music and books by 30 artists, most of them still active and caught young here -- continues to look good. There are things to quarrel with, from the sweeping ''generation'' concept to a surprising, un-Met-like factual error in the wall labels: the original ''Pictures'' show had five artists, not four; one, Philip Smith, has been deliberately excised here in the interest of writing a neater history. Still, the show is a big step into the pertinent present for this museum. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090611
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Oct. 25. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending 130 feet from one end of the open-air deck to the other and rising 29 feet overhead. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090611
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090611
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'AERNOUT MIK,' through July 27. Something is happening in this Dutch artist's videos, but you don't know what it is. Displayed on single flat screens or as multiple projections on custom-built walls in various locations at the museum, they seem to document chaotic, emotionally charged, newsworthy situations involving scores of people. As you watch, you keep hoping to discover what exactly is the cause of the commotion, but no clarification arrives. They are by turns mesmerizing, tantalizing and frustrating. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20090611
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke of today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090611
 NEUE GALERIE: 'BRUCKE: THE BIRTH OF EXPRESSIONISM IN DRESDEN AND BERLIN, 1905-1913,' through June 29. The original bad boys of 20th-century German art are featured in this visually aggressive show, specifically Erich Heckel, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Max Pechstein and their driven, putative leader, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. Together they revived a rawness of feeling, form and execution that had been largely absent from European art since the Middle Ages, but they also unleashed a palpable Dada swagger before Dada. As their dreams had not yet been trammeled by World War I, theirs was still a fairly cheerful barbarism, based on the belief that they could retrieve what was good and natural in the world if they just took off their clothes, danced around a bit and made art. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20090611
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'THE GENERATIONAL: YOUNGER THAN JESUS,' through July 5. The latest local survey to challenge the pre-eminence of the Whitney Biennial is big, international in scope and age-specific. As the title implies, only artists 33 or younger were considered for inclusion. The result is a serious, carefully considered show, but one that with a few magnetic entries aside -- a video by Cyprien Galliard; an animation by Wojciech Bakowski; a madcap Ryan Trecartin installation -- feels sedate for a youthfest. Despite the global reach, it's oddly familiar, like a more-substantial-than-average weekend gallery hop in Chelsea and the Lower East Side, right down to token African and Asian imports. Still, there are many intriguing artists to look (and listen) for, among them the filmmakers Keren Cytter and Luke Fowler; the digital whiz-kid Mark Essen; and Guthrie Lonergan. There is also, as it happens, a much livelier survey to be found in an accompanying book called ''Younger Than Jesus: Artist Directory,'' which features nearly 500 artists who didn't make the final exhibition cut. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090611
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: 'HARLEM, 1970-2009: PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAMILO JOSE VERGARA,' through July 12. From the time he arrived in the United States from Chile as a college student in 1965, the photographer Camilo Jose Vergara has been haunting, and haunted by, American cities. Some of them -- Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York -- he has revisited and rephotographed repeatedly in the past 40 years to record changes over time. The people and places of Harlem are the subject of this small show about alteration and continuation. A similar exhibition, ''Storefront Churches: Photographs by Camilo Jose Vergara,'' runs from June 20 to Nov. 29 at the National Building Museum in Washington. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street , (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Cotter)20090611
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 24. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090611
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/ OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Never-Neverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090611
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'KALUP LINZY: IF IT DON'T FIT,' through June 28. Kalup Linzy's video work, in which the artist appears in drag and lends his overdubbed voice to almost all the characters, has a complex ancestry. A family tree would have to include the Wayans brothers, RuPaul, John Waters and Eddie Murphy on one branch, and the highbrow canon of dress-up artists, from Cindy Sherman to Yasumasa Morimura, on another. Mr. Linzy's first museum solo includes 22 videos made since 2002, with a total running time of about three hours. It includes his series ''Da Churen,'' his antic reimagining of the popular soap opera ''All My Children''; more recent episodes focus on the art world and feature Mr. Linzy's newest persona, Katonya the emerging artist. Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street , (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090611
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SADIE BENNING: PLAY PAUSE,' through Sept. 20. A new stop-action animation by this former film prodigy uses an avalanche of simple, almost naive gouache drawings, sometimes tinted with color, to prowl the margins of urban society. The result is low-key with undercurrents: a picture of the everyday sublime riddled with suggestions of longing, otherness and the difficulties of connection. Solveig Nelson has provided its beautifully accurate (yet largely electronic) soundtrack of city sounds, whether a subway singer or squirrels rifling through a garbage can, people talking in a bar or gates being called in an airport. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090611
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'CLAES OLDENBURG: EARLY SCULPTURE, DRAWINGS, AND HAPPENINGS FILMS' AND 'CLAES OLDENBURG AND COOSJE VAN BRUGGEN: THE MUSIC ROOM,' through Sept. 6. This pair of exhibitions lean heavily on the Whitney's sizable collection of Oldenburg and Oldenburg/ Van Bruggen drawings, some of which were shown in 2002. But they also include newly restored, never-exhibited films of Mr. Oldenburg's Happenings and a major kinetic sculpture, ''Ice Bag -- Scale C'' (1971), brought back to life by conservators. A centralized gallery of early drawings and soft sculptures defines Mr. Oldenburg's epicurean branch of Pop, with works like ''Giant BLT (Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Sandwich)'' and ''French Fries and Ketchup'' (both 1963), served up on low, platterlike pedestals. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20090611
 Galleries: Uptown
 JOHN CHAMBERLAIN: 'EARLY YEARS,' through June 27. This show of works dating from 1960 to 1987 prompts a question: is there any sculpture from the 1960s that still looks as good as Mr. Chamberlain's? His assemblages of distressed autobody parts are almost classical. Hovering between the raw and the cooked, they are simultaneously compressed junk and elegant compositions of organic abstraction and orgasmic expression. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street , (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com. (Johnson)20090611
 ALICE NEEL: 'NUDES OF THE 1930S' through June 20. This beguiling show of early works on canvas and paper confirms that whether her subjects were clothed or not, Alice Neel tended toward portraits, accounting for face, body and psyche in equal measure. Sometimes the combination could be ineffably sweet, as in ''Florence Lesser,'' a pencil drawing of a Watteau-like beauty seen from the rear. But brutal honesty was more usual, as proved by the remarkable ''Rhoda Myers With Blue Hat,'' which takes its pose, chintz armchair and attitude from Cezanne's early portrait of the painter Achille Emperaire. Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street , (212) 517-8677, zwirnerandwirth.com. (Smith)20090611
 Galleries: 57th Street
 YANG FUDONG: 'EAST OF QUE VILLAGE,' through June 20. Running concurrently on six flat screens, each of six 20-minute videos shows shifting views of a remote village in a region surrounding Beijing. In the desolate landscape outside the village, scrawny dogs forage for food and get into snarling fights. In town, we see people doing routine activities. It might be an allegory of life on the fine line between civilization and savagery. Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street , (212) 977-7160, mariangoodman.com. (Johnson)20090611
 JACK YOUNGERMAN: 'TRIADS/QUADRADS,' through June 26. Mr. Youngerman's new paintings have an exhilarating punch. In bright Playskool colors and with a direct, slightly brushy touch, he has been creating centered, hard-edged abstractions on star-, diamond-, three-leaf-clover- and oval-shaped plywood panels. They have a numinous vibe, like altar paintings for a pagan cult or heraldic emblems for a mystical knighthood. Washburn Gallery, 20 West 57th Street , (212) 397-6780, washburngallery.com. (Johnson)20090611
 Galleries: Chelsea
 PHIL COLLINS: 'WHEN SLAVES LOVE EACH OTHER, IT'S NOT LOVE,' through June 20. The main attraction in this video-making conceptualist's show is a sophisticated parody of a Spanish television soap opera, made in Mexico City, using professional television actors. The 28-minute film tells a tangled tale of love, intrigue, betrayal and murder involving two maids, a gardener and the wealthy couple they work for. Though not as funny or imaginative as it should be, it is entertaining. Tanya Bonakdar, 521 West 21st Street , (212) 414-4144, tanyabonakdargallery.com. 20090611
 (Johnson)
 MARK FLOOD: 'CHELSEA WHORES,' through July 10. Works by this Houston-based artist mock American culture and the contemporary art world. A found Exxon sign has the words ''Take Drugs'' crudely stenciled across the bottom. Paintings on cardboard bear messages like ''Another Painting'' or ''2 More Paintings.'' Having it both ways, Mr. Flood also produces almost beautiful, traditional canvases by applying paint over old lace and then pulling away the fabric, leaving intricate, multi-hued, all-over patterns. Zach Feuer Gallery, 530 West 24th Street , (212) 989-7700, zachfeuer.com. (Johnson)20090611
 JONATHAN MONK: THE INFLATED DEFLATED, through June 20. This artist's appropriation art (about art) can range from reverence to satire, but reverence -- usually reserved for Conceptual artists -- is better. Here satire prevails. Jeff Koon's famous stainless-steel ''Rabbit'' from 1986 is satirized in five stainless-steel ripostes that look more melted than deflated, as well as heavy and lifeless. Mr. Koon's rabbit is a truly weird work of art: taut, weightless, opaque yet full of light. Mr. Monk's seem like a lot of effort for what is basically a one-liner. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street , (212) 645-7335, caseykaplangallery.com. (Smith)20090611
 ALICE NEEL: SELECTED WORKS through June 20. One of the great 20th-century portraitists, Neel wore her life on the sleeve of her painter's smock. Her portraits and self-portraits define her as a feminist before the fact, a left-leaning bohemian drawn to other nonconformists and a sybarite at ease with her body. The 16 paintings here -- all portraits -- confirm that she also excelled at exaggerating portraiture's inherent triangulations: of painter-sitter-viewer; figure-space-surface; line-brushwork-stain; biography-autobiography-history. The works from the 1940s and '50s in the opening gallery stunningly encapsulate these tensions. David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street , (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)20090611
 CHARLES RAY, through June 27. More than 20 years ago Mr. Ray created a piece of kinetic sculpture that became famous, even though hardly anyone saw it: ''Ink Line'' (1987), a fine stream of black ink flowing from a little hole in the ceiling to another in the floor. It is here publicly exhibited for the first time, along with two other pieces from the '80s: ''Moving Wire,'' in which the ends of a length of wire snake in and out of fine holes drilled into the wall, and ''Spinning Spot,'' a circular section of the floor, 24 inches in diameter, spinning at 33 1/3 r.p.m. Matthew Marks Gallery, 523 West 24th Street , (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Johnson)20090611
 LARA SCHNITGER, through June 20. Fey, diaphanous new paintings show a softer side to this sharp-witted, fabric-loving Dutch-born artist, based in Los Angeles, who is best known for obstreperous sculptures about sexual desire and female consciousness. Now her patchworks are flat mixtures of collage, stencil, paint and printed fabric with splashes of bleach. They evoke high-style pornography or fashion illustration and are most fascinating for their seemingly simple, ultimately mysterious processes. The gallery is partitioned by screens of black nylon stockings stretched into a kind of Goth snowflake pattern through which everything looks good, at least momentarily. Anton Kern, 532 West 20th Street , (212) 367-9663, antonkerngallery.com. (Smith)20090611
 DIRK SKREBER, through June 27. The startling centerpiece of this exhibition is a pair of real cars, each wrapped around a vertical steel pole. The ''sculptures'' were produced at an automobile-safety testing operation, where big machines hurled the cars against the poles at speeds over 40 miles per hour. Also on display is a series of large, oddly blurry pictures of beautiful women. They suggest a fading connection to the eternal feminine, while the smashed cars evoke a Faustian industrialism. Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 537 West 22nd Street , (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Johnson)20090611
 EVE SUSSMAN AND RUFUS CORPORATION: 'WHITE ON WHITE: THE PILOT (JUST LIKE BEING THERE)' through June 20. Ms. Sussman and her collaborators, who go by the name Rufus Corporation, have constructed an evocative think piece: a meticulously detailed re-creation of the office of the Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin, the first human to go into space. They have simulated it so faithfully that it looks as if the real thing -- including chairs, a desk, telephones, memorabilia and fake daylight coming through sheer white curtains from a false window -- had been teleported to Chelsea. Winkleman Gallery, 637 West 27th Street , (212) 643-3152, winkleman.com. (Johnson)20090611
 Galleries: SoHo
 UNICA ZURN: 'DARK SPRING,' through July 23. A fiction writer and poet, Zurn (1916-1970) suffered a series of mental breakdowns during the last decade of her life, and it was during that time that she produced most of the playfully improvised, sometimes hallucinatory nightmarish drawings in this fascinating show. Wandering, loopy lines enfold intricate patterns of dots, petals and serpentine stripes punctuated by eyes, faces, birds, fish, snakes and flowers. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street , (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Johnson)20090611
 Galleries: Other
 GIOVANNI BATTISTA PIRANESI through June 30. A giant in the history of printmaking, Piranesi is best known for the ''Carceri,'' a series of etched and engraved architectural fantasies envisioning the mysterious, vaulted interiors of penal institutions. Four examples are included in this excellent show of about 55 prints from all phases of his career. David Tunick, 19 East 66th Street , (212) 570-0090, tunickart.com. (Johnson)20090611
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA: 'DIRT ON DELIGHT: IMPULSES THAT FORM CLAY,' through June 21. Ignoring the art-craft divide, this bold show examines ceramics in its own right. With George Ohr as Jackson Pollock, it ranges from postwar greats, like Peter Voulkos and Ken Price, to younger eminences, like Adrian Saxe and Arlene Shechet, to new arrivals, like Sterling Ruby, Jessica Jackson Hutchins and Jeffry Mitchell. The clash of approaches to beauty, technique, scale, color and finish is exuberantly edifying. It foments hope that the Minimal-Conceptual-Relational art religion (important as it is) could wither away, and curators of contemporary art could regain full use of their eyes and thus their brains. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Smith)20090611
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'SHEPARD FAIREY: SUPPLY AND DEMAND,' through Aug. 16. The surprise of the first museum retrospective for the creator of the Obama ''Hope'' poster is that almost everything he does, from abstracted images of Andre the Giant to his album covers for Led Zeppelin and other bands, is visually arresting. But in tracking his 20-year evolution from aesthetic anarchist to savvy, all-purpose designer and illustrator, the exhibition inadvertently casts doubt on his authenticity as a radical street artist. 100 Northern Avenue, Boston, (617) 478-3100, icaboston.org. 20090611
 (Johnson)
 ZOE LEONARD, through Sept. 7. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has an exhibition at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. It is different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, it shares a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y. , (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. (Cotter)20090611
 NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 'MAMI WATA: ARTS FOR WATER SPIRITS IN AFRICA AND ITS DIASPORAS,' through July 26. Mami Wata is Mother Water, Mother of Fish, goddess of oceans, rivers and pools, with sources in West and Central Africa and tributaries throughout the African Americas, from Bahia to Brooklyn. Usually shown as a half-woman, half-fish, she slips with ease between incompatible elements: water and air, tradition and modernity, this life and the next. Provider of riches, she is the natural bailout savior for our time, and this exhibition, organized by the Fowler Museum of Cultural History in Los Angeles, presents her in all her shape-shifting glory. The show's creator, Henry John Drewal, has compressed three decades of Mami watching into vivid visual form; the Washington curator, Christine Mullen Kreamer, has devised a fantastic subaqueous showcase for a powerhouse spiritual diva. 950 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, (202) 633-4600, africa.si.edu. (Cotter)20090611
 Last Chance
 FRANCIS CAPE: 'HOME FRONT'; closes on Saturday. Francis Cape's built-in cabinets usually conjure up past times and values with closed, finely carpentered forms. His latest efforts are incomplete, and their transparency and structural simplicity make the morality of his art newly visible. The pieces are based the Utility Furniture Scheme designs issued by the British government in 1942 to ''conserve scarce resources in a time of national emergency.'' Photographs of Hurricane Katrina's aftermath allude to a more recent emergency, creating a context of chaos, loss, incompetence and indifference that the objects play -- and rail -- against. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 463-7372, murrayguy.com. (Smith)20090611
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'KRAZY! THE DELIRIOUS WORLD OF ANIME + MANGA + VIDEO GAMES'; closes on Sunday. This show addresses a vibrant chapter in the history of visual storytelling: a specifically Japanese set of approaches that has gained a worldwide following over the past two decades. It will not live up to its promise for devoted followers of Japanese pop culture, but as a multimedia sampler including comics, graphic novels, video games, action figures, animated cartoons and more, it might entice the uninitiated to explore the field more deeply. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)20090611
 VICTOR MAN; closes on Saturday. The New York debut of this Romanian artist suggests that his European reputation is way ahead of his achievement, which is so far a pastiche of familiar tics, gestures and Romantic lugubriousness. With its dark, accoutered room, ''On Relative Loneliness,'' the installation piece, might have been made with a recipe. Black-on-black paintings show more promise, despite debts to Troy Brauntuch and Luc Tuymans. The shadows of a small copy of Sassetta's image of St. Anthony tormented by demons yield up their scary image with a nice shock. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com. (Smith)20090611
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'TANGLED ALPHABETS: LEON FERRARI AND MIRA SCHENDEL'; closes on Monday. This overly full show mixes together partial accounts of the work of two important South American artists instead of focusing on one. Leon Ferrari (Argentine, born 1920) and Mira Schendel (Brazilian, born in Switzerland, 1919-1988) shared an interest in abstraction contaminated by language, line and modest materials, especially paper and wire. But Ferrari is, at heart, a sardonic, sometimes grandiose Conceptualist, whose best works elaborate a maniacal, nonsense calligraphy. Schendel was a purist with a Zen slant, adept at transferring random marks and letters to rice paper, from which she also made ephemeral sculptures. While the show opens a window on a complex history that ran parallel to, not behind, postwar art in the United States, the double survey suggests a failure to commit. Our loss. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090611
 ERNESTO NETO: 'ANTHROPODINO'; closes on Sunday. A spectacular dream of an installation of gauzy fabric, dangling pods, dinosaurish wooden bones and cavernous interiors occupies much of the Park Avenue Armory's 55,000-square-foot, 80-foot-high Wade Thompson Drill Hall. With its domed central structure and ethereal canopy, Mr. Neto's construction glows like a magical destination in a children's movie. Park Avenue Armory, at 67th Street , (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. (Johnson)20090611
 SIGMAR POLKE: 'LENS PAINTINGS' ; closes next Friday. The artist's first show here in 11 years introduces the fruits of an improvised, if machine-executed, technique, by which Mr. Polke covers each of his canvases or fabrics with a thin sheet of combed plastic that hardens into a crude, lenticular surface. He applies images, daubs and pours of paint before and after. The visual confusion is initially intriguing, and the usual caustic beauty is achieved. The only problem is that so far the experiments mostly rehash familiar Polke motifs. These too need to broach new territory. Michael Werner Gallery, 4 East 77th Street , (212) 988-1623, michaelwerner.com. (Smith)20090611
 LISA ROSS: 'UNREVEALED'; closes on Saturday. The photographs in this beautiful show are of graves and shrines that Ms. Ross found in the wind-pummeled deserts of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of Northwest China. Each memorial, made of dried branches ornamented with bits of fabric and religious talismans, and enclosed by rickety fencing, seems to be in the process of blowing away as we watch. Their fragility seems particularly evident in two video pieces, but so does their resilience. Daneyal Mahmood Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, third floor, Chelsea , (212) 675-2966, daneyalmahmood.com. (Cotter)20090611
 'WELCOME TO GULU'; closes on Saturday. Recently appointed a goodwill ambassador by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the painter Ross Bleckner traveled to Africa, where he organized a therapeutic art workshop for former child soldiers and abducted girls in the Gulu region of northern Uganda. Paintings from the workshop make up the bulk of this benefit show. They are accompanied by photographic portraits of the young artists by Mr. Bleckner -- who has plans to return to Uganda -- and by their calmly harrowing personal statements. Lehmann-Maupin, 540 West 26th Street, Chelsea , (212) 255-2923, lehmannmaupin.com. (Cotter)20090611
 This is a more complete version of the story than appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



304 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; AMERICAN JOURNEYS NAVAJO NATION; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Where Navajo Tales, and Rugs, Are Woven

BYLINE: By KEITH MULVIHILL

 BODY:
ACCORDING to Navajo creation stories, the first holy people passed through three worlds -- Black, Blue and Yellow -- before settling here, in the White, or Glittering, World. They emerged through a giant reed and, shortly after, established the four sacred mountains that mark the boundaries of the Navajo homeland, an area that extends far beyond the present-day Navajo Nation.
 Driving on Route 12, just south of Window Rock, Ariz., the capital city of the Navajo Nation, I felt as if I was passing from one world into another. The Green World -- a landscape carpeted with shimmering sage bushes and dotted with plump pinon and juniper trees -- gave way to a Red World dominated by ruddy, sandy soil. The setting sun inflamed the rust-colored rock to a spellbinding intensity. A glittering world indeed.
 The Navajo Nation covers 27,000 square miles (about the size of West Virginia) over a large chunk of Arizona, part of New Mexico and a swath of Utah. More than 250,000 Navajos, or Dine (the people), as they call themselves, live in Dine Bikeya, or Navajo Land. For anyone seeking to learn more about this country's largest native population, there are ample opportunities to spend time with the Navajo. 
 On a spring evening I relished just such a chance. I had made arrangements to spend the night at Mae Wallace's family hogan, about seven miles east of the tiny town of Granada, Ariz. While most Navajos live in more modern dwellings, many also maintain a hogan, a traditional eight-sided log home. 
 I arrived late in the afternoon and before dinner I took a walk around the sprawling property with Mrs. Wallace's daughter-in-law Joanne George, 48. We walked past gaping caves set in sandstone cliffs before reaching a tiny cluster of ancient ruins. When we finished, we strolled over to a small house to meet members of the family.
 ''Do you know how to make fry bread?'' Mrs. Wallace, 73, asked me as she and her sister Isabel Mitchell, 74, prepared dinner for the family. She stretched a dinner-plate-size disk of dough in her hands and placed it in a cast-iron skillet filled with hot oil. 
 Sitting around a large table, we ate Navajo tacos: fry bread piled high with pinto beans, chopped lettuce, onions, tomatoes and shredded cheese. After a couple of hours of chatting, I retired to the hogan. Inside the 50-year-old structure, which has no electricity or running water, I found two twin beds, a small couch and an upholstered rocking chair all draped with colorful blankets. I was kept company by a battery-powered radio tuned to KTNN (''The Voice of the Navajo Nation''). The announcer spoke Navajo, and the tunes varied between country and western and traditional American Indian songs.
 The next day, to see how the Navajo have adapted traditional crafts to modern commerce, I visited the Toadlena Trading Post, which is celebrating its centennial this year. The post sits at the end of a dirt road on the eastern slope of the Chuska Mountains, which straddle the Arizona-New Mexico border.
 Trading posts have a longstanding history in the Navajo Nation, gaining prominence in the 1880s after the completion of the transcontinental railroad, which served as a resource for all types of goods. Many of the posts, integral to the Navajo economy for decades, continue to play a vital role in the lives of the locals.
 ''When we tell people we are a trading post, they get this vision of a roadside stand that sells rubber tomahawks,'' said Mark Winter, who has owned the Toadlena store since 1997. Inside, a small grocery market adjoins rooms overflowing with Navajo rugs -- mesmerizing geometric designs made with undyed, hand-spun wool in shades of brown, white, black and gray in what is known as the Two Grey Hills style. Small rugs start around $125; larger rugs around $1,800.
 Residents stop by the post daily, which is a community center as much as a convenience store. There is also a museum displaying local works as well as rugs dating to the early 20th century. 
 A wider variety of textiles is on display at the monthly Crownpoint Rug Auction, which started in 1968. On the night I visited, more than 100 people filled the cafeteria at the Crownpoint Elementary School. The auction gets about 200 or more rugs each month, said Christina Ellsworth, the event organizer. Sales moved at a swift clip, punctuated by cheers for high-selling items. Prices were $300 to $2,000.
 Interested in learning more about the craft, I arranged for a weaving lesson with a master weaver, Jennie Slick, 58, who lives near Houck, Ariz, near the New Mexico border. Inside her home, Ms. Slick, who has been weaving for more than 30 years, had four looms with rugs in various stages of completion. 
 She demonstrated her technique on a 3-foot-wide-by-5-foot-high loom. Her fingers plucked at vertical strands of the warp, moving quickly as she threaded colored lengths of tightly spun wool. Her weaving fork gently tapped at the tapestry as she went, a familiar heartbeat in many Navajo homes.
 My fingerwork was considerably less nimble, but after an hour or so I fell into a slow rhythm, producing a few inches of stripes of dark brown and white. 
 Hiking trails and ancient footpaths are everywhere here, but the Navajo Nation requires that hikers trek in the company of a guide. In Canyon de Chelly, I hiked to the base of Spider Rock, named for Spider Woman, one of the holy people, who taught the Navajo how to weave. My guide, Kalvin Watchman, 44, lived in the canyon as a youngster and filled my head with tales during our half day together. Likewise, the two-and-a-half-mile walk down to the spectacular ruins of Betatakin in the Navajo National Monument was enhanced by the stories and history we heard from our guide, Cassandra Parrish. 
 ''I think hearing stories from people who grew up here gives a much clearer perspective about how the Navajo lived and survived here,'' Mr. Watchman said. ''Everything I know I learned from our elders. A lot of this stuff you really can't read about in a book.''
 IF YOU GO
 WHAT TO DO
 Information about visiting the Navajo Nation is at the official tourism site, www.discovernavajo.com. 
 The Navajo Nation Museum and Visitor Center (Highway 264 and Loop Road, Window Rock, Ariz.; 928-871-7941) has educational exhibits, a bookstore and gift shop.
 The Toadlena Trading Post, in Toadlena, N.M. (505-789-3267; www.toadlenatradingpost.com), carries an array of Two Grey Hill-style Navajo rugs and also houses a small museum. 
 The Crownpoint Rug Auction (www.crownpointrugauction.com) is held monthly, usually on the third Friday of the month, at the Crownpoint Elementary School in Crownpoint, N.M. Jennie Slick and Mary Walker teach Navajo weaving (www.weavinginbeauty.com) at various locations.
 Canyon de Chelly National Monument (www.nps.gov/cach) is located outside Chinle, Ariz. Hiking guides are available at the visitor center ($15 an hour). Rooms at the nearby Thunderbird Lodge start at $110. Refuel at the inexpensive cafeteria at the lodge.
 Information about Navajo National Monument (928-672-2700) and guided hikes to Betatakin ruins is at www.nps.gov/nava. 
 WHERE TO STAY
 There are affordable chain hotels in Kayenta, Ariz., including the Best Western Wetherill Inn, 1000 Main Street; 928-697-3231. Rates start at $129 per night. 
 Arrangements to stay at Mae Wallace's hogan, dubbed Two White Rocks Hogan Hospitality, can be made by calling or e-mailing Clarissa Williams (505-879-2457; rissawms @yahoo.com). A stay is $150 a night for one person, and $25 more each for a second and third. 
 WHERE TO EAT
 The Golden Sands Cafe (at Routes 160 and 163 in Kayenta; 928-697-3684) serves terrific cheeseburgers ($4.75) andNavajo tacos ($7.50). 
 Near the Navajo Nation Museum, the Dine Restaurant, in the Quality Inn (48 West Highway 264; 928-871-4108), serves American food and traditional Navajo fare, including mutton stew ($7.75) 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Escapes pages on Friday about Navajo sites in the Southwest misstated the name of a town in Arizona near a hogan, a traditional dwelling, that takes guests. It is Ganado, not Granada.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AT THE LOOM: Jennie Slick, a rug weaver for more than 30 years, demonstrates her craft at her home near Houck, Ariz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH MULVIHILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (77%); HISTORIC SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (91%); NEW MEXICO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



305 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (BBC America) FRIDAY NIGHT WITH JONATHAN ROSS Mr. Ross, above, brings his Bafta- and British Comedy Award-winning talk show to the United States. The humor begins in interviews with Dustin Hoffman, Hugh Laurie and Eric Cantona, the French soccer player turned actor. The band Gossip performs.
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY Segments looks at bra makeovers, getting a job and health-food imposters. Barbara Corcoran discusses the real estate market. The Black Eyed Peas perform before moving over to ''The View'' at 11 on ABC. 
 7 A.M. (ABC) GOOD MORNING AMERICA The chef Martha Hall Foose is a guest. The Jonas Brothers perform.
 8 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) FOX LEGACY WITH TOM ROTHMAN Mr. Rothman looks at the making of the ''The Sand Pebbles,'' Robert Wise's 1966 war drama starring Steve McQueen, right, in his Oscar-nominated role as Jake Holman, an engineer aboard a gunboat in 1926 China; Richard Attenborough as Frenchy Burgoyne, a good-hearted crewman; and Candice Bergen as Shirley Eckert, the missionary schoolteacher Jake loves. The film will be shown at 8:15.
 8 P.M. (TCM) GREAT DIRECTORS: WOODY ALLEN This latest installment in a monthlong salute to those behind the camera begins with ''Woody Allen: A Life in Film,'' Richard Schickel's 2002 documentary. Five movies by Mr. Allen follow, starting with ''Broadway Danny Rose'' (1984), about a small-time agent (Mr. Allen) who gets mixed up with gangsters when he falls for a client's girlfriend (Mia Farrow), at 9:45. They continue with ''Hannah and Her Sisters'' (1986), starring Ms. Farrow, Barbara Hershey and Dianne Wiest as siblings navigating tangled relationships in New York, at 11:15; ''The Purple Rose of Cairo'' (1985), with Jeff Daniels as a movie hero who steps off the screen and into the life of his biggest fan (Ms. Farrow), at 1:15 a.m.; ''Interiors'' (1978), about three sisters (Diane Keaton, Mary Beth Hurt and Kristin Griffith) trying to adjust to their parents' divorce and father's remarriage, at 2:45; and ''Take the Money and Run'' (1969), with Mr. Allen as an incompetent criminal who becomes the subject of a documentary, at 4:30.
 8:30 P.M. (ABC) THE GOODE FAMILY Can you say exploitation? When her back goes out, the do-gooding Helen unthinkingly hires a Latino landscaping crew and a former childhood pen pal from Myanmar to help whip her organic garden into shape.
 9 P.M. (Animal Planet) WHALE WARS When an enormous weather system moves in along the route to Antarctica, a Sea Shepherd vessel is forced to seek shelter behind a large iceberg. By morning the ship is surrounded by ice, which is denting the hull as the ice pushes inward.
 9 P.M. (TLC) WHAT NOT TO WEAR Jessie, a 52-year-old single Texan with big hair and bedazzled clothes, has a style more appropriate for her 34-year-old daughter. Stacy London and Clinton Kelly help Jessie look less like a floozy and more like the kind of woman men would take home to their mothers. 
 9:30 P.M. (HGTV) BANG FOR YOUR BUCK Monica Pedersen compares three great rooms around Fort Lauderdale, Fla., remodeled on budgets of $100,000 each and then assesses the investments in the current economy. Her advice: Don't scrimp on design, use luxurious materials, and remember that it's always about location, location, location.
 10 P.M. (Sundance) DRIVING LESSONS (2006) Julie Waters, at right with Rupert Grint, stars as Evie Walton, an accomplished if eccentric British actress best known, to her chagrin, for her appearances in a trashy daytime soap opera. Mr. Grint (Ron Weasley in the ''Harry Potter'' movies) is Ben, a repressed 17-year-old from a strict Christian household who becomes Evie's assistant. She, in turn, decides to become his liberator. Laura Linney plays Ben's domineering mother in this directorial debut by Jeremy Brock, who gleaned inspiration from a summer job with Dame Peggy Ashcroft. Writing in The New York Times, Stephen Holden said the film ''belongs to that hardy niche of British comedies designed as star vehicles for distinguished actresses (preferably Dames) of a certain age whose assignment is to win awards by devouring the scenery.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); FILM (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DRAMA FILMS (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ATHLETES (57%); SOCCER (57%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: HUGH LAURIE (58%); NICK JONAS (56%); JOE JONAS (56%); KEVIN JONAS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



306 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Lavish Purchases Stay Behind Gilded Doors, Designers Say

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
In the blocks around Bloomingdale's on the East Side of Manhattan, where ladies who lunch often head afterward to the showrooms of furniture and faucet makers to make their home decorating decisions, it's fair to say that the recession has dampened the popularity of splurging on $30,000 couches -- or at least openly boasting about such purchases.
 But that doesn't mean all wealthy New Yorkers have heeded the anger of the masses about government bailouts. Public appearances aside, not everyone has stopped spending. 
 In fact, opulent renovations continue to thrive. At least that's the story being promoted by executives at one high-end designer, Clive Christian, whose kitchens, interiors and furniture lines have been selected by Celine Dion, Rod Stewart and a number of European soccer stars, among others, for their liberal use of gold-leaf designs and Liberace-reminiscent chandeliers that drip above enormous kitchen islands.
 Even before the British designer opened its new 7,500-square-foot showroom in the Architects & Designers Building on East 58th Street at the end of May, customers had crowded into the unfinished space to select kitchens, butlers' pantries and lavish bathrooms, said Jacqueline Weeman, business manager for the New York showroom. By June the showroom had generated $5 million in sales, far surpassing the $3 million in sales that the old Manhattan showroom generated for all of 2008, company officials said.
 At a Champagne reception Tuesday night to celebrate the opening of the Clive Christian showroom, replacing a smaller spot on Madison Avenue, several dozen socialites and decorators turned up to inquire about inlaid ceilings and kitchen islands the length of many Manhattan apartments.
 When asked about the recession's impact, Robert Hughes, who runs global business development for Clive Christian, replied, ''We are removed.'' Leaning back on a silk Clive Christian couch, sipping Champagne and munching on peanuts, he said there were plenty of wealthy people still willing to part with their money. 
 ''I don't want to demean what's going on in New York or the world,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''But we're not dealing with people whose portfolios have been affected.''
 One customer who went ahead with an expensive renovation in spite of the recession is Thia Breen, president of Estee Lauder North America. In January, Ms. Breen finished renovating the Upper East Side apartment she shares with her partner, Laurie Dowley, a senior executive at Elizabeth Arden. The renovation included a Clive Christian kitchen and bar. At the reception, Ms. Dowley expressed relief at having chosen to invest in the renovation. ''We put all of our money into something we loved,'' said Ms. Dowley. ''It wasn't sitting in a bank and it didn't lose value.''
 As Ms. Weeman walked through the lavishly decorated rooms with Mr. Christian's curly monogram adorning rugs, wallpaper and even bed linens, she said about half of the designer's new customers who have ordered renovations are from the New York area. Several clients live in Manhattan, two on Long Island and one in New Jersey. 
 They include bankers, retired executives and a fertilizer mogul. Only one customer has tried to haggle about the prices: new kitchens cost $80,000 to $300,000, bathrooms $10,000 to $120,000 and wood-paneled rooms $100,000 to $300,000. After she told the reluctant client that discounts ''are not part of my vocabulary,'' Ms. Weeman said the client relented. 
 While the very rich may cut back on how much they publicly display wealth, Ms. Weeman said they are spending more on their private spaces. None of the designer's clients were willing to be interviewed.
 ''It's a much more intimate purchase,'' Ms. Weeman said. ''You can be as ostentatious as you want in the home.''
 Other designers also said that the affluent were still investing in their homes, especially their kitchens. ''They may not do everything on their wish list, but the kitchen is a large part of their life,'' said Alyse Ruth, an interior designer who brought two clients to Tuesday night's party.
 In some cases, New York designers said that affluent clients are choosing designs that look less expensive. Eric Lysdahl, a Manhattan interior designer who was also at the reception, said one client had shelved plans two years ago to renovate her apartment on Central Park South with a Clive Christian kitchen and two bathrooms. But she recently enlisted him to resume the renovation. This time, she has chosen Clive Christian designs that he called ''simpler,'' ''cleaner-lined'' and ''less showy.''
 ''People are spending money,'' he said. ''But they're doing it much more subtly.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with an article in some editions on Friday about brisk business at the new Clive Christian showroom in Manhattan, which sells opulent home furnishings, misspelled the surname of the woman seated on a couch next to the fashion publicist Kristian Laliberte at a reception celebrating the opening. She is Carol Han, not Haw.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A reception at Clive Christian's New York showroom, where sales have risen during the recession. At left, Kristian Laliberte, a fashion publicist, with Carol Haw, says he intends to remodel.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); FURNITURE MFG (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (65%); SOCCER (54%)

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (51%)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%)

PERSON: CELINE DION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



307 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Lebanon's Triumph, Iran's Travesty

BYLINE: By ELLIOTT ABRAMS. 
Elliott Abrams, who was a deputy national security adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 WITH elections in Lebanon and Iran occurring in the same week, it's inevitable that they are viewed as twin tests of efforts to spread democracy to the Muslim world. Should we celebrate the outcome in Lebanon and push for elections throughout the Middle East, or sourly note that Hezbollah has exactly as many guns now as it had when it was defeated at the polls on Sunday? Is the Iranian presidential election today a festival of freedom or a cover for theocracy?
 What the United States should be promoting is not elections, but free elections, and the voting in Lebanon passed any realistic test. Anyone who wanted to run could run. The participation rate was 53 percent, close to our turnout in last year's presidential race. By all accounts the votes were counted fairly. There are rumors about large amounts of Saudi money floating in to support the victorious March 14 coalition, but so what? Hezbollah gets at least $200 million a year from Iran. It is striking that the losers are not crying foul; they too agree the election was fundamentally fair. 
 However, was it fair but meaningless, given Hezbollah's military might? That is not the judgment of the winners -- the pro-Western March 14 group -- who believe they have crippled any claim by Hezbollah and its leader, Hassan Nasrallah, to speak for the Lebanese people. 
 Hezbollah's inability to win support outside its Shiite base, along with the poor showing of its Christian ally, Gen. Michel Aoun, leaves Sheik Nasrallah diminished and less able to drag Lebanon into another war with Israel. He will play hardball, no doubt, in the negotiations over the next Lebanese government, and he retains the ability to take over downtown Beirut as he did in May 2008. But such displays of power were apparently the exact kind of thing that turned off swing voters -- mostly Christians -- and Hezbollah now uses them at its political peril. 
 We should not idealize Lebanon's election, nor its politics. Most voters support only candidates from their own religious group, and the political talk is not of liberals and conservatives but of Armenians, Maronites, Druze, Shiites and Sunnis. Some districts seem as permanently owned by one family as any ''rotten borough'' in 19th-century England. Still, the election produced a consequential result: the majority of Lebanese have rejected Hezbollah's claim that it is not a terrorist group but a ''national resistance.'' 
 Unfortunately, Iran's election today presents the voters with no similar opportunity. There is no chance for voters to register their opposition to the theocratic system or tell the ayatollahs to go back to the mosques. The candidates have been carefully screened to exclude anyone opposed to the ruling clerical establishment; each is part of the Islamic Revolution's old guard. 
 Nor is it likely that the votes will be fairly counted; indeed most analysts concluded that the 2005 election was manipulated to produce Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's presidential victory. Vote destruction and ballot stuffing are easy in a hidden process controlled by the Interior Ministry. And if all else fails, the 12-man Guardian Council has the power to throw out the results in districts where there were ''problems'' -- problems like a reformist victory.
 Voting in Iran is a contrivance for settling certain policy disputes and personal rivalries within the ruling elite. Elections are not without meaning; if Mr. Ahmadinejad loses, it may result in more sensible economic policies and fewer loud calls for the destruction of Israel. But Iran doesn't hold elections for supreme leader -- Ayatollah Ali Khameini will hold that post for the indefinite future -- and the failed presidency of Mohammad Khatami from 1997 to 2005 reminds us that the power of a putative reformist is illusory. The Khatami years saw increased repression inside Iran, growing support for Hezbollah and Palestinian terrorist groups, and the covert construction of the uranium enrichment facility at Natanz. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad's defeat would probably be welcomed abroad as a sign that Iran is moving away from his policies, but Iran's policies aren't his -- they are dictated by Ayatollah Khamenei and his supporters in the Revolutionary Guard and Basij paramilitary. In fact, a victory by Mr. Ahmadinejad's main challenger, Mir Hussein Moussavi, is more likely to change Western policy toward Iran than to change Iran's own conduct. If the delusion that a new president would surely mean new opportunities to negotiate away Iran's nuclear program strikes Western leaders, solidarity might give way to pre-emptive concessions.
 Elections matter, but how much they matter depends entirely on how free, open and fair they are. The Lebanese had a chance to vote against Hezbollah, and took the opportunity. Iranians, unfortunately, are being given no similar chance to decide who they really want to govern them.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TERRORISM (72%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) LEBANON (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ARMENIA (79%); ENGLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



308 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; BREAKING GROUND; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Maluaka

BYLINE: By NICK KAYE

 BODY:
WHAT Residential development in an oceanfront resort area.
 WHERE Maui in Hawaii.
 AMENITIES Golf access and a clubhouse with a restaurant, among others. 
 PRICES Homesites range from $4 million to $7 million. 
 STATUS So far six homesites have been sold. The clubhouse is expected to be completed in 2011.
 DEVELOPER The Dowling Company, founded in 1987 and based in Maui. 
 CONTACT (808) 879-0009 or www.maluaka.com.
 DETAILS Like many projects now in development, the plans for Maluaka, in the Makena Resort area on the southwestern coast of Maui, have evolved over the past few years. The site, between two holes of a golf course that is now being renovated, was bought by the Dowling Company in 2005, and in early 2007 the project was announced as a collection of 69 residences, most luxury condominiums, priced from $4 million to $15 million. Later that year the developer, along with Morgan Stanley Real Estate, acquired the entire 1,800-acre Makena Resort, including its more than 20-year-old Maui Prince Hotel and two golf courses designed by Robert Trent Jones Jr. Then early this year, in response to the downturn in the economy, the project's plans were altered. Its 11-acre site will now hold just 13 freestanding houses; condos may still be offered. Buyers can have houses designed independently while adhering to architectural guidelines, or they can select a predesigned floor plan. The clubhouse has been designed to meet the Green Building Council's LEED certification standards, and all the houses must also be LEED certified. There will be an infinity pool, a restaurant and a fitness center at the clubhouse, and activities like bike tours, fishing trips and surfing lessons will be offered.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); GOLF (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); GREEN BUILDING (88%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (51%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



309 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words

BYLINE: By DWIGHT CASS and JEFFREY GOLDFARB

 BODY:
A Bond Reprieve 
 For the Treasury
 The United States Treasury bond market has been feeling distinctly unloved. A 10-year bond auction went badly on June 10 after Russia, Brazil and China said they were taking steps to diversify their foreign currency reserves. Worries that the $11 billion auction of 30-year bonds on Thursday would follow suit rattled the market. But central banks flocked to buy the bonds, meaning dollar diversification fears were overblown for now. 
 Treasury officials may be relieved, but they shouldn't relax. The factors that could push up the cost of government borrowing continue to mount. Investors are beginning to worry more about inflation than deflation, as signs of an approaching economic recovery proliferate. And the sheer volume of debt that the United States has to issue this fiscal year -- $3.25 trillion worth, or nearly four times as much as last year -- has unnerved investors. 
 Nonetheless, the 30-year bond auction attracted more interest than usual. The ratio of total bids to accepted bids, an indicator of demand, was 2.68, up from an average of 2.21 in recent auctions. In an encouraging sign, foreign investors, mainly central banks, purchased nearly half the bonds. They normally take only about a third. 
 That's notable because investors like China have been shifting purchases toward shorter-term securities to reduce their risk of loss from interest rate increases. 
 And the risk is significant. The 4.72 percent yield at which the bonds were sold was the highest at auction in nearly two years. But if inflation returns to a long-term average of about 3 percent, the return on the bonds after inflation starts to look stingy. Add the likelihood of long bond yields rising significantly at times over three decades, and the price of these bonds could slide. 
 The willingness of foreign central banks to shoulder this risk helps, but Treasury officials shouldn't be congratulating one another just yet. The long bond has plummeted 10 percent in price in the last month alone. The patience of many foreign investors is already strained. Some may soon reach their limit. 
 Value of a Name
 The roster of extinct bank brands is growing. Abbey, Bradford & Bingley and Alliance & Leicester, three British banks with 19th-century heritages, were just consigned to history by Banco Santander of Spain. The financial crisis has extinguished the Lehman Brothers name. And the trading house founded in 1923 by Joseph Bear and Robert Stearns survives only in memory. Now, Kleinwort Benson hangs in the balance. 
 The firm has been put up for sale by Commerzbank. European authorities want it to unload non-German operations after the company's takeover of Dresdner Bank and an injection of 18 billion euros ($25 billion) of aid. When Dresdner bought Kleinwort Benson in 1995, it was best known for investment banking. But those operations were hived off leaving a modest-size private bank. 
 Plenty of rivals will have their eyes on the firm's bankers and its loyal clients. Both could easily wander off, however, if a new owner jeopardizes the firm's independence, for instance, by using it merely as a vehicle to sell investment products. 
 Kleinwort Benson also comes with banking operations in the Channel Islands, which has capital requirements. What is more, the global crackdown on offshore banking means there could be hidden liabilities. At the very least, it's unlikely to be a growth business. 
 The real attraction of the firm could be its name. Hinrich Kleinwort and Robert Benson set up their respective financial partnerships in Denmark and Liverpool in 1786, and the families later came together in London.
 Of course, the brand could be eradicated by a bigger rival with worldwide recognition or a peer with a similarly venerable name, like Standard Chartered and Schroders. 
 But with the unsettled rich seeking new homes for their shrunken wealth, some firms with less nameplate equity could be interested in acquiring a known brand. Private equity investors may also be tempted to back management's hopes of keeping the Kleinwort Benson name going. 
 With the banking industry sweeping away so much of its tarnished past, there may still be value in trying to save a name that carries some essence of former glory.
 DWIGHT CASS and JEFFREY GOLDFARB 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dresdner Kleinwort is part of the German banking giant Commerzbank.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); AUCTIONS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); EURO CRISIS (74%); EURO (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (72%); DEFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAKEOVERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); SANTANDER UK PLC (63%); COMMERZBANK AG (57%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); CZB (LSE) (57%); CBK (FRA) (57%); SANT (LIS) (57%); SANT (BIT) (57%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (57%); SAN (NYSE) (57%); SAN (MCE) (57%); SAN (BMV) (57%); BNC (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (77%); GERMANY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



310 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Higher Forecast for Demand Pushes Up Oil Prices

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Crude oil climbed above $72 a barrel on Thursday as the International Energy Agency revised upward its forecast for global oil demand on signs that the downturn in the world economy was flattening out. 
 The agency, based in Paris, now estimates global demand will be 83.3 million barrels a day this year, up 120,000 barrels a day from its previous forecast. 
 The new forecast still represents a decline of 2.9 percent from the 2008 level, the agency said, cautioning that the revisions ''do not necessarily imply economic recovery, but may reflect a slowing in previously sharp decline.''
 Crude oil futures settled at $72.68 a barrel in New York trading. The price of oil has more than doubled since sliding below $35 in February, in part because of Chinese stockpiling that began in April.
 Higher energy costs have raised concerns that whatever ''green shoots'' may have begun to grow in the world economy could be cut down before a full recovery takes hold.
 The agency said prices appeared to have been driven recently by ''perceived global economic recovery'' as well as rising refinery throughput. 
 ''OPEC's late-May decision to maintain current production targets added further support to markets,'' said the agency, which gives advice on energy policy to its 28 member nations, which include the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, South Korea and most of Europe.
 Olivier Jakob, an oil analyst at Petromatrix in Zug, Switzerland, said the market appeared to be focusing on the certain aspects of the report: ''They have raised their demand target,'' he said of the energy agency, ''but they have made an even bigger revision on the supply side.'' 
 The agency said it now expected non-OPEC oil production of 170,000 barrels a day more than in its previous estimate, citing ''stronger growth at new Russian fields, more robust North Sea production and higher crude output in Colombia.'' 
 Mr. Jakob said that ''on balance, you need less oil from OPEC. From OPEC's point of view this report says, 'we should produce less oil, not more.' So you can still make a case for them to cut production or do nothing, even if the price increases more.''
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, the global oil cartel, will next meet on Sept. 9 to discuss market conditions. At its most recent meeting on May 28, it left output levels unchanged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CARTELS (87%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ZUG, SWITZERLAND (57%) AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); FRANCE (88%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (57%); AUSTRALIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



311 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: The Great Unwinding

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Here's one way to look at the politics of our era: We've moved from The Age of Leverage to The Great Unwinding.
 For about a generation, the U.S. surfed on a growing wave of debt. The ratio of debt-to-personal-disposable income was 55 percent in 1960. Since then, it has more than doubled, reaching 133 percent in 2007. Total credit market debt -- throwing in corporate, financial and other borrowing -- has risen apace, surging from 143 percent of G.D.P. in 1951 to 350 percent of G.D.P. last year.
 Charts that mark these trends are truly horrifying. There is a steady level of debt through most of the 20th century, until the mid-1980s. Then there is a steep accelerating rise to today's epic levels. 
 This rise in debt fueled a consumption binge. Consumption as a share of G.D.P. stood at around 62 percent in the mid-1960s, and rose to about 73 percent by 2008. The baby boomers enjoyed an incredible spending binge. Meanwhile the Chinese, Japanese and European economies became reliant on the overextended U.S. consumer. It couldn't last.
 The leverage wave crashed last fall. Facing the possibility of systemic collapse, the government stepped in and replaced private borrowing with public borrowing. The Federal Reserve printed money at incredible rates, and federal spending ballooned. In 2007, the federal deficit was 1.2 percent of G.D.P. Two years later, it's at 13 percent.
 The crisis response more or less worked. Historians will argue about the Paulson-Geithner-Bernanke reaction, but the economy seems to be stabilizing. And now attention turns to the task of the next decade: slowly unwinding the debt that has built up over the past generation.
 Americans aren't borrowing the way they used to, but the accumulated debt is still there. Over the next many years, Americans will have to save more and borrow less. The American economy will have to transition from an economy based on consumption and imports to an economy with a greater balance of business investment and production. A country that has become accustomed to reasonably fast growth and frothy affluence will probably have to adjust to slower growth and less retail fizz.
 The economic challenges will be hard. Reuven Glick and Kevin J. Lansing of the San Francisco Fed estimate that Americans will have to increase their household savings rate from 4 percent to 10 percent by 2018 to restore balance. That, they write, will produce ''a near-term drag on overall economic activity.'' Meanwhile, capital and labor will have to flow from sectors that depend on discretionary consumption to sectors based on research and investment.
 But it's the political challenges that will be most hellacious. Basically, everything that a politician might do to make voters happier in the near term will have horrible long-term consequences. Stimulate the economy too much now and you wind up with ruinous inflation down the road. Preserve failing companies and you wind up with Japanese stagnation. Cushion the decline in living standards with easy money now and you just move from a housing bubble to a commodities bubble. 
 The members of the political class face a set of monumental tasks. First, they have to persuade a country to postpone gratification for the sake of rebuilding the country. This country hasn't accepted sacrifice in 50 years.
 Second, political leaders will have to raise taxes and cut spending to get the federal fiscal house in order, and they will have to do it at a time when voters are already scaling back their lifestyles.
 Third, they will have to refrain from doing anything that might further damage America's fiscal position, which is extremely fragile. That means not passing a health care reform package unless it is really and truly paid for. That means forming a Social Security commission next year to tackle that entitlement problem. 
 Fourth, the political class is going to attempt the politically unthinkable. The U.S. is going to have to move toward a consumption tax, to discourage spending and encourage savings. There's also a crying need for tax reform. As economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin points out, the tax code is rife with provisions that encourage leverage and discourage investment. The government will have to spend less on transfer payments and more on investments in science and infrastructure. 
 The members of the Obama administration fully understand this and are brimming with good ideas about how to move from a bubble economy to an investment economy. Finding a political strategy to accomplish this, however, is proving to be very difficult. And getting Congress to move in this direction might be impossible.
 Congressional leaders have been fixated on short-term conventional priorities throughout this entire episode. There is no evidence that the power brokers understand the fundamental transition ahead. They are practicing the same self-indulgence that got us into this mess. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



312 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Wind, Water and Fish

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

DATELINE: WASCO, Ore. 

 BODY:
For decades, most of the nation's renewable power has come from dams, which supplied cheap electricity without requiring fossil fuels. But the federal agencies running the dams often compiled woeful track records on other environmental issues.
 Now, with the focus in Washington on clean power, some dam agencies are starting to go green, embracing wind power and energy conservation. The most aggressive is the Bonneville Power Administration, whose power lines carry much of the electricity in the Pacific Northwest. The agency also provides a third of the region's power supply, drawn mostly from generators inside big dams.
 The amount of wind power on the Bonneville transmission system quadrupled in the last three years and is expected to double again in another two. The turbines are making an electricity system with low carbon emissions even greener -- already, in Seattle, more than 90 percent of the power comes from renewable sources.
 Yet the shift of emphasis at the dam agencies is proving far from simple. It could end up pitting one environmental goal against another, a tension that is emerging in renewable-power projects across the country. 
 Environmental groups contend that the Bonneville Power Administration's shift to wind turbines buttresses their case for tearing down dams in the agency's territory, particularly four along the lower Snake River in Washington State that helped decimate one of North America's great runs of wild salmon.
 Bonneville wants to keep all the dams, arguing that they not only provide cheap power but they also make an ideal complement to large-scale installation of wind power. When the wind slows and power production drops, the agency argues, it can compensate quickly by telling the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation, which operate the dams, to release more water from reservoirs to turn the huge generators. When the wind picks up, dam operations can be slowed.
 The dams help alleviate a need for natural-gas-fired power plants, which are used in other regions as a backup power source when the wind stops blowing, but which release carbon dioxide that contributes to global warming. 
 By balancing wind power with hydropower, the Bonneville Power Administration says it believes it can limit the use of natural gas and coal plants across the West, even as the region's demand for electricity rises. Around the country, dams provide 6 percent of electricity generation -- double the amount from other renewable sources like wind, solar power and biomass -- and much of that is concentrated in the West.
 The influx of wind on Bonneville's system has come as a result of renewable power goals set by governments in the Western states, which aim to reduce their output of greenhouse gases. Bonneville says that when the wind is blowing most strongly, 18 percent of the power in its control area now comes from wind, and that number may rise to 30 percent next year. (Not all of that is consumed in the Pacific Northwest; some is sold to California.) 
 The rise in wind power means that the dam agency has emerged as a national test case for how to integrate large amounts of intermittent wind power into a regional electric grid. ''I've described this as a grand experiment,'' said Stephen J. Wright, the administrator of the 72-year-old Bonneville Power Administration.
 The agency stresses the challenge it faces, making sure the lights stay on despite the ups and downs of the wind. Many new wind farms lie along the gusty Columbia River corridor, and their concentration means that changes in the wind can bring sudden dips and spikes in the power they generate.
 ''We can have periods that go from full, maximum wind output to zero across an hour,'' Mr. Wright said.
 Because of its erratic nature, wind power -- and the need for dams or other backup systems -- has become intertwined with the fate of salmon, perhaps the biggest environmental controversy in the Pacific Northwest. 
 For decades, environmentalists, fishermen and some local politicians, who want to save the endangered salmon, have fought Bonneville and the Army Corps of Engineers, which want to keep the lower Snake River dams. A federal judge overseeing the dispute has accused the federal agencies of not working hard enough to save the salmon and had raised the possibility of breaching those dams to aid the fish.
 Wild salmon ride the river in two directions. They spawn far upstream, and the young fish swim downriver to the Pacific Ocean. They spend several years there, feeding and growing quite large, before swimming back upstream to spawn and die. 
 The large reservoirs created over the decades as the dams were built have slowed and complicated their journeys, and slashed survival rates. Fish ladders help on the way back upstream, but those salmon that get through in both directions end up traumatized and weakened, biologists say.
 When it comes to helping salmon, Bonneville has ''been dragged kicking and screaming every inch of the way,'' said Bill Arthur, a Sierra Club representative in the Northwest. Mr. Arthur praised the agency's efforts to add wind power, but he argued that the four lower Snake River dams, which are far smaller than major dams like Grand Coulee, were not needed to back up wind power. 
 Instead, he proposed putting wind turbines in more places, to help balance power generation by ensuring that some are always in an area where the wind is blowing, or relying more on the Northwest's natural gas plants in combination with energy-saving measures. He also noted that if the dams came down, dismantling them could take six or more years, allowing plenty of time to plan the transition to new power sources. 
 Elliot Mainzer, vice president for corporate strategy at the Bonneville Power Administration, said that tearing down the Snake River dams would ''unequivocally'' hurt the ability of the agency to assimilate wind power into its system, because of the dams' role in balancing up-and-down wind generation.
 Even as the salmon controversy plays out, the agency is seeking to build more power lines to speed wind-farm development in remote, windy areas. 
 The economic stimulus package passed in February will help: it sharply increased the maximum amount that the agency can borrow from the United States Treasury to $7.7 billion, from $4.45 billion. (Another dam agency, the Western Area Power Administration, got a similar boost and also plans more transmission lines to aid wind and other renewables.)
 Bonneville says that the stimulus injection will enable it to build a $246 million transmission project along the Columbia River, allowing developers to put up wind turbines in additional areas of eastern Oregon, and that more planned transmission lines will also help harness the wind
 All of that is good news for the area's farmers, some of whom welcome a new source of income. 
 John Hildebrand, an animated 82-year-old wheat farmer, has allowed a Spanish developer, Iberdrola, to put wind turbines on his land in Wasco, not far from the Columbia River. Power from his turbines feeds into the Bonneville system. 
 He and his brother Gordon sat in the front row when Franklin D. Roosevelt dedicated the Bonneville Dam in 1937, before the region even had public power -- so they have seen the future of energy, twice.
 ''All we had is sky out there,'' John Hildebrand said, looking out toward the tall structures twirling high above his rolling land. ''Now I've got turbines.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday with an article about calls in the Northwest to tear down dams as wind power becomes more available misidentified the location of John and Gordon Hildebrand's farm, which was shown with its installation of wind turbines. It is in Sherman County, Ore. -- not in Idaho.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brothers John, left, and Gordon Hildebrand and the wind turbines on their Idaho farm. Some want wind turbines to replace dams.(B1)
 Turbines on John Hildebrand's farm supply electricity to the Bonneville Power Administration. Bonneville also gets power from dams on the lower Snake River.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); BIOMASS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FISHES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (61%); ARMIES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



313 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Door to Door as Missionaries, Then as Salesmen

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: OAK BROOK, Ill. 

 BODY:
Six days a week, in fair weather and foul, two-dozen door-to-door salesmen, all of whom live clustered together in an apartment complex in this suburb west of Chicago, pile into S.U.V.'s and cars and head into the big city, bent on sales of home security systems. 
 And on Sunday, their one day off, they drive together to the nearest house of worship of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
 The salesmen are mostly former Mormon missionaries from Utah who cut their teeth -- and learned their people-skill chops -- cold-calling for their faith. In Chicago and in its suburbs where their employer, Pinnacle Security of Orem, Utah, has shipped them for the summer sales season, they are doing much the same thing, but as a job. 
 ''It's missionary work turned into a business,'' said Cameron Treu, 30, who served his mission in Chile and was recruited into D2D (that is door-to-door in sales lingo) by another former missionary.
 Managers at Pinnacle Security, founded in 2001 by a student at Brigham Young University, the Mormon Church-owned school, say missionaries simply have the right stuff. Many speak foreign languages learned in the mission field. All have thick skins from dealing with the negative responses that a missionary armed with a Book of Mormon and a smile can receive.
 Mormon men are expected to serve a two-year mission in their early 20s, and about two-thirds of Pinnacle Security's 1,800 sales representatives this summer have been through the experience. Former missionaries work for other direct-sales companies, too, though Pinnacle seems to be in a class by itself: It has deployed them in 75 cities nationwide.
 ''They're used to knocking on doors, and they're used to rejection,'' said Scott Warner, Pinnacle's manager of the Chicago sales team.
 Mr. Warner said interest in the security products was up this year -- a recession indicator, he said -- as people reacted to fear (if not always a statistical reality) of rising crime. But the number of potential customers who cannot pass credit checks is up, too, with more homeowners unable to afford the $40 or so a month that Pinnacle charges to monitor a system. The company also charges a $99 installation fee, but nothing for the alarm equipment itself in a standard package.
 As millions of traditional jobs dried up last year, at least 100,000 Americans joined the ranks of what is called, in the trade, direct sales. With items like cosmetics and skin care (Mary Kay, Avon) and housewares (Cutco knives, Fuller Brush), more than 15.1 million people are now selling something, or trying to, somewhere far beyond the mall.
 And retention is up in a profession with a notoriously high burn-out rate, industry experts say. (Fifty to 100 door-knocks a day, with one or two completed sales, is an average grind.) At Pinnacle Security's Oak Brook office, for example, only about 15 percent of the reps had given up and gone home, or not worked out to expectations, after the first month of the sales season, which began in early May -- about half the normal attrition rate.
 ''Consumer companies and retailers are trying to break through the clutter, and it's a lot easier for companies to recruit talent in this job market,'' said Thomas Lutz, a senior partner in the Boston Consulting Group, which advises companies on growth and marketing.
 Business is only part of the chemistry though. In a free-market economy, every sale or purchase is on some level an act of conversion, a matter of overcoming objections or hesitancy and getting to ''yes.'' Decision making and trust are never entirely matters of pure logic. 
 Matt Romero, a 24-year-old college student from Draper, Utah, south of Salt Lake City, admitted freely that in his heart he was still partly a missionary.
 Mr. Romero is fluent in Spanish from his mission to Peru, eloquent and invariably polite in English in trolling the mostly black neighborhoods of Chicago's South Side. He made $13,000 last summer selling 60 security systems for Pinnacle and is aspiring this year to sell 150 systems, which would trigger big incentive bonuses that could increase his pay to $75,000 or more.
 But he said he was also ready to render unto God the things that are God's.
 His thinking on that question changed one afternoon in early May. A woman opened the door and wanted to talk about religion. 
 ''She asked me if I believed in Christ and if I knew who my savior was and I said, 'Yes, ma'am,' and we had a discussion and she told me, 'No one comes in my house without hearing the word,' and I said, 'That's a good policy, ma'am,' '' Mr. Romero said on a recent afternoon of knocking on doors.
 ''Since then, I've been carrying around these little cards,'' he said, lifting up his stack of Pinnacle brochures to reveal a smaller stack of what are called ''pass-along cards,'' with facts and frequently asked questions about the Mormon Church. Marketing experts say that cold-calling in general has become more sophisticated since the era of Willy Loman, with training, mentoring and recruiting efforts sharpened at many companies. But Pinnacle's salesmen are also applying skills learned in the mission field, like ''mimic and mirror,'' a technique of adapting one's posture and bearing to the person being spoken to as a way of inducing trust -- if his arms are crossed, you cross yours; if she tilts her head in asking a question, you do the same.
 ''Before my mission, I knocked on doors and I had some success,'' said Matt Biesinger, 23, who worked a summer for Pinnacle before going to Paraguay as a missionary. ''On the mission, I learned how to talk to people.'' 
 Role-playing exercises conducted on many mornings reinforce those lessons. Look into a potential customer's eye, trainers say, but do not stare, which can appear confrontational. When the door opens, always stand at a slight angle to diffuse any body language that might convey threat. And never diminish yourself by using the word, ''just,'' as in, ''I'm just here in the neighborhood.''
 Sometimes, though, it rains, and when it does, Pinnacle's sink-or-swim mentality for sales reps, especially new, unproven ones like Brandon Rogers, is tough love at its toughest. 
 Newbies, for fear they may retreat to their cars, are dropped off and left on foot without shelter or access to a bathroom unless they can gain admittance into a house to make their sales pitch. Mr. Rogers, who is 21, had three energy bars and no umbrella to last him through a long, wet day.
 He had made one sale by dark, when they picked up him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brandon Rogers, a former missionary, is a rookie salesman.(A1)
Cameron Treu, right, a former missionary in Chile, mapped sales territory.
Brandon Rogers, left, and Matt Romero are co-workers at Pinnacle Security.
Mr. Rogers, a rookie salesman, traveling solo on a long, rainy day.
 Andrew Grose, left, and Cameron Treu, out in the field as sales managers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLOS JAVIER ORTIZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (89%); SALES FORCE (89%); SALES PROSPECTING (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (77%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); COSMETICS (61%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (57%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) UTAH, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



314 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2079 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
FILM SERIES
 AN EVENING WITH HAROLD RAMIS (Friday) One of the central figures in American comedy since the 1980s, this writer (''Stripes''), actor (''Ghostbusters'') and director (''Groundhog Day'') will be introduced by the comedian David Cross and interviewed by the curator David Schwartz for a 7 p.m. session ranging from his early days as the head writer of ''SCTV'' to Mr. Ramis's new film, ''Year One.'' Sponsored by the Museum of the Moving Image. TheTimesCenter, 242 West 41st Street, Manhattan , (718) 784-4520, movingimage.us; $25. (Dave Kehr)20090611 
 GUNGA DIN (Monday) As part of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Science's ''Monday Nights With Oscar'' program, two of Hollywood's leading technicians, the sound editor Ben Burtt (''Wall-E'') and the visual-effects director Craig Barron (''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button''), will introduce this George Stevens imperialist adventure classic of 1939, starring Cary Grant, Victor McLaglen and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. The film experts will examine how the technology of the time was used to transform a patch of Lone Pine, Calif., into a British Army post in India. Academy Theater, Lighthouse International, 111 East 59th Street, Manhattan , (212) 821-9251, Oscars.org; $5. (Kehr)20090611
 INDIOBRAVO FILIPINO FILM FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday) New films from the Philippines, long one of the world's most vital popular-film cultures, now spawning a new generation of art house directors. Three of the leading figures are featured in this festival, sponsored by the IndioBravo Film Foundation: Brillante Mendoza, who just won the best director prize at Cannes for ''Kinatay,'' will be represented by his 2007 ''Slingshot''; Lav Diaz offers the avant-garde (seven-and-one-half-hour) ''Melancholia''; and Francix Xavier Pasion contributes the closing night film, ''Jay,'' a satire on Filipino reality TV. Also featured is a restoration of Ishmael Bernal's 1983 ''Miracle,'' a classic of the politically charged cinema that challenged the Marcos dictatorship. Locations vary, but most screenings will be held at the Visual Arts Theater. Visual Arts Theater, 333 West 23rd Street, Chelsea , (917) 270-9693, Indiobravo.org; $15 to $19.95. (Kehr)20090611
 'KUHLE WAMPE, OR WHO OWNS THE WORLD?' (Wednesday and Thursday) Banned by the Nazis for ''Communist tendencies,'' Slatan Dudow's 1932 film about a camp for the unemployed on the fringe of Depression-era Berlin probably had its greatest impact in the 1970s, when it was rediscovered by a new generation of Marxist-minded critics. It features a screenplay of which Bertolt Brecht was a co-author, and a score by Hanns Eisler, and is being presented here in a newly restored print from the DEFA Film Library at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Co-sponsored by the Goethe-Institut New York. Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village , (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $9. (Kehr)20090611
 MOVIE LISTINGS
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 
 'ANGELS & DEMONS' (PG-13, 2:20) Hocus-pocus at the Vatican. Better than ''The Da Vinci Code,'' if that's saying anything. (A. O. Scott)20090611
 'AWAY WE GO' (R, 1:37) The farther the better. (Scott)20090611
 'BROTHERS BLOOM' (PG-13, 1:49) As much as you can admire the stagecraft and technical skills on display, your response to this snazzy-looking comic fantasy about fraternal grifters embarking on a final con is likely to be a shrug and a ''So what?''20090611
 (Stephen Holden)
 'DANCE FLICK' (PG-13, 1:23) The Wayans family's explosively funny spoof of dance movies, from ''Flashdance'' to ''High School Musical,'' is packed with uproarious gross-out humor; one of the best jokes involves David Alan Grier break-dancing in a fat suit. (Holden)20090611
 'DOWNLOADING NANCY' (No rating, 1:42) Johan Renck directs, and Maria Bello stars in this nasty exploitation flick about an unhappy hausfrau who goes trolling online to find someone to do her terminal harm.20090611
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'DRAG ME TO HELL' (PG-13, 1:36) Sam Raimi returns to his goofy, gooey roots with this battle between a cursed loan officer (Alison Lohman) and a milky-eyed crone with yellow fingernails and matching sputum (Lorna Raver). Unfurling in vertiginous, comic-book frames, the movie has a tonic playfulness that's unabashedly retro, its violence too cartoonish to offend. At a time when horror is defined by limp Japanese retreads or punishing exercises in pure sadism, this crackpot feast of flies, phlegm and embalming fluid is a giddy delight. (Jeannette Catsoulis)20090611
 'EARTH' (G, 1:30) Plundered largely from the BBC Natural History Unit's magnificent ''Planet Earth,'' Alastair Fothergill and Mark Linfield's grandiosely titled movie presents nature defanged and declawed for kiddie consumption. Capturing awwww-filled moments -- mandarin ducklings flapping adorably from nest to forest floor -- in spectacularly high definition, the filmmakers take the temperature of our planet and conclude that it is escalating. Blame James Earl Jones's insistently cozy narration if that elevation seems as natural as the turning of the tides. (Catsoulis)20090611
 'EASY VIRTUE' (PG-13, 1:37) Jessica Biel, Kristin Scott Thomas and Colin Firth play comfortably together in this fizzy screen adaptation of an early Noel Coward play about a brash American woman with a past who marries into a stuffy English family. (Holden)20090611
 'EVERY LITTLE STEP' (PG-13, 1:36) A group of aspiring hoofers and chirpers audition for a Broadway revival of ''A Chorus Line,'' the classic musical about aspiring Broadway hoofers and chirpers. This loving, meticulous documentary is nearly as charming, and as bittersweet, as the show itself. (Scott)20090611
 'GHOSTS OF GIRLFRIENDS PAST' (PG-13, 1:41) A junky-looking romantic comedy directed by Mark Waters and starring Matthew McConaughey and his very white teeth. Jennifer Garner co-stars. (Dargis)20090611
 (Scott)
 'THE HANGOVER' (R, 1:36) Three guys, in Vegas for a buddy's bachelor bash, wander around in the aftermath, trying to figure out what happened. Often quite funny, though ultimately risk-averse in its depiction of male infantilism. (Scott)20090611
 'HERB & DOROTHY' (No rating, 1:27) This modest, delightful documentary profiles a humble postal clerk and his librarian wife who, in the early 1960s, assembled a legendary private collection of Minimalist and Conceptual art. (Nathan Lee)20090611
 'IS ANYBODY THERE?' (PG-13, 1:32) Teetering between comedy and pathos, ''Is Anybody There?'' is essentially a two-character exercise from the ''Harold and Maude'' school of tearjerking whimsy in which a retired magician (a wonderful Michael Caine) and a 10-year-old boy form an unlikely friendship. (Holden)20090611
 'JULIA' (R, 2:18) This venture in extreme acting and audience provocation from the French director Erick Zonca stars the fearless Tilda Swinton as an alcoholic child-snatcher. It's tough going, but stick it out: she will amaze you. (Dargis)20090611
 'LAND OF THE LOST' (PG-13, 1:46) Will Ferrell and some digital dinosaurs run amok in a pricey take on the tacky 1970s children's television show. Brad Silberling directs.20090611
 (Dargis)
 'THE LIMITS OF CONTROL' (R, 1:56) This Minimalist exercise in the key of cool from Jim Jarmusch features theactor Isaach De Bankole as a peripatetic man of mystery who drinks a lot of espresso on the way to the anticlimactic finish. (Dargis)20090611
 'MY LIFE IN RUINS' (PG-13, 1:33) Nia Vardalos (''My Big Fat Greek Wedding'') portrays a tour guide in Greece. The Greeks in this stale '70s-style romantic comedy come across as lazy, lecherous, thieving and slovenly, and the tourists as even more obnoxious. (Holden)20090611
 '99' (No rating, 2:15, in Hindi) Funny, assured and just inventive enough, this film about a pair of luckless con artists has more in common with American indies (division: hipster) than it does with standard Bollywood fare. Directed by the first-time feature filmmakers Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK, ''99'' is an encouraging sign that commercial Hindi cinema is becoming a bigger tent. (Rachel Saltz)20090611
 'OUTRAGE' (No rating, 1:30) Kirby Dick's new documentary takes on the hypocrisies of closeted gay politicians who oppose gay rights. Indignant and occasionally incendiary, it works better as an essay than as an expose. (Scott)20090611
 'O'HORTEN' (PG-13, 1:30, in Norwegian) The Norwegian filmmaker Bent Hamer, a specialist in deadpan whimsy, follows the bittersweet post-retirement adventures of a stoical train engineer in this understated comedy of disappointment and partial rejuvenation. (Scott)20090611
 'RUDO Y CURSI' (R, 1:43, in Spanish) Two soccer-playing half-brothers, exuberantly played by Gael Garcia Bernal and Diego Luna, struggle with fortune, celebrity, sex and money in this lively, somewhat thin rags-to-riches fable, written and directed by Carlos Cuaron. (Scott)20090611
 'SERAPHINE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) An unusually fine and insightful film biography, directed by Martin Provost, about Seraphine de Senlis (1864-1942), a self-taught painter played with humor and sensitivity by Yolande Moreau. (Scott)20090611
 'SIN NOMBRE' (R, 1:36, in Spanish) Two teenagers, one Honduran, one Mexican, travel together in a story about geographic and moral border crossings from the young American Cary Joji Fukunaga. (Dargis)20090611
 'STAR TREK' (PG-13, 2:06) This bright, shiny blast from a newly imagined past, courtesy of the director J. J. Abrams, isn't just a pleasurable rethink of your geek uncle's favorite science-fiction series. It's also a testament to television's power as myth-maker. (Dargis)20090611
 'SUMMER HOURS' (No rating, 1:42, in French) Olivier Assayas's sublime domestic drama takes an ordinary, almost banal problem -- how will three busy, distracted siblings dispose of their mother's stuff after she dies? -- and fashions a rich and moving meditation on family, the passing of time and the mysterious hold that inanimate objects can have on human emotions. Flawlessly acted (the cast includes Juliette Binoche, Charles Berling and Jeremie Renier), the movie is a modest masterpiece. (Scott)20090611
 'TERMINATOR SALVATION' (PG-13, 1:47) Loud, solid and unpretentious, this franchise update, directed by McG, breaks no new ground but does have some good action sequences and some effectively roughed-up, glowering performances, notably from Sam Worthington as a former death row inmate who winds up in the future for no reason he can discern. (Scott)20090611
 '24 CITY' (No rating, 1:47, in Mandarin) An experimental fiction-nonfiction hybrid from Jia Zhang-ke that centers on a state-owned factory building, a ruined monument to precapitalist China, or rather to its workers, who helped turn the country into a global power. (Dargis)20090611
 'THE SOLOIST' (PG-13, 1:49) Based on a book by the Los Angeles Times columnist Steve Lopez and directed by Joe Wright, this imperfect, overly tidy if often moving drama recounts what happened when one of the city's more privileged denizens (Robert Downey Jr. as the newsman) met one of its least fortunate (Jamie Foxx as Nathaniel Anthony Ayers). (Dargis)20090611
 'TYSON' (R, 1:30) Riveting and disturbing, James Toback's documentary about the disgraced former heavyweight champion is a rich and complicated portrait of a man who seems fated to inflict pain and also to suffer it. (Scott)20090611
 'UNMISTAKEN CHILD' (No rating, 1:42, in English, Tibetan, Nepalese and Hindi) This documentary follows the four-year search of Tenzin Zopa, a gentle, baby-faced 28-year-old Nepalese monk traveling on foot, by mule and by helicopter, for the reincarnation of his Tibetan master, Geshe Lama Konchog. (Holden)20090611
 'UP' (PG, 1:30) The latest Pixar animation, a story of a 78-year-old widower (voiced by Ed Asner) who takes flight with the help of a bouquet of balloons, soars during its creatively liberated opening stretch before coming down to earth. Pete Docter directs. (Dargis)20090611
 'X-MEN ORIGINS: WOLVERINE' (PG-13, 1:48) A hairy Canadian (played by Hugh Jackman, a muscular Australian) goes on a vengeful rampage -- a few of them, actually -- and then loses his memory, Lucky him. (Scott)20090611
 This is a more complete version of the story than appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'Gunga Din': Victor McLaglen, left, and Cary Grant star in this George Stevens 1939 adventure classic, which will be shown on Monday at the Academy Theater in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS AND SCIENCES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); ARMIES (53%)

COMPANY: LIGHTHOUSE INTERNATIONAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



315 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'LIGHT OF THE SUFIS'; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: The Many Voices Of Enlightenment

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
''What's in your head -- throw it away! What's in your hand -- give it up! Whatever happens -- don't turn away from it.'' That's how a 10th-century Persian spiritual master -- Abu Said ibn Abil-Khair was his name -- defined the Islamic devotional practice known as Sufism. Countless other definitions have been proposed since, almost as many as for Islam itself. 
 Religions and spiritual movements are complicated things, and accurate descriptions of them are bound to be contradictory. Sufism, like Islam, is both mystical and practical, embracing and exclusionary, pacific and assertive, ascetic and sensual, free form and discipline bound. Such oppositions aren't a problem. They generate the unifying friction that makes culture tick. 
 But complexity also makes us nervous. We have an itch to neaten it up, flatten it out. So we do. The West tends to see all Islam as fundamentalist, bellicose and puritanical, and Sufism as a sexy, proto-New Agey, un-Islamic departure. At the same time a fundamentalist Muslim minority rejects Sufism, with its world-touring dervishes, tippler poets and pop stars, as a Western-pandering perversion of Islamic tradition. 
 Clearly neither side is prepared to take the let-go-and-change option that Abu Said suggests is the Sufi way. But art, by default, does take it. Taken piece by piece, art can be ideologically arm-twisting. But collectively it is disordered enough to give equal time to many voices. And many voices is what you find in a tiny, exquisite show called ''Light of the Sufis: The Mystical Arts of Islam'' in the newly reinstalled Islamic galleries at the Brooklyn Museum. 
 While global politics has made Islam part of our consciousness, we hear little about Sufism and its long history. The term ''sufi'' probably derives from an Arabic word for wool, referring to the rough garments once worn by Middle Eastern ascetics. Certain followers of Sufism were called ''dervishes,'' a term related to a Persian word for poor. 
 It seems likely that Sufism initially developed a few centuries after the prophet Mohammad's death in 632 A.D. as a back-to-basics alternative to the extravagance of the early Islamic imperial courts. In response to it a group of like-minded Muslims set materialist moderation, if not outright renunciation, as a goal. They advocated turning away from the world and toward spiritual illumination. Muhammad, enraptured by God, was their role model, and a passage from the Koran known as ''Light Verse'' was a primary text: 
 ''Allah is the light of the heavens and earth. His light may be compared to a niche that enshrines a lamp, the lamp within a crystal of starlike brilliance. Light upon light; Allah guides to his light whom He will.'' 
 A Koran page handwritten in light -- that is, in gold and silver inks on a sheet of parchment dyed deep blue -- is the exhibition's oldest work, dating from the 10th or 11th century. Seen by candlelight, the words, which describe the rewards of Paradise, would have glinted against the dark ground like constellations in a night sky. 
 Luxury versions of glass lamps found in homes were created for mosques. A 14th-century Egyptian example, enameled, gilded and inscribed with quotations from the ''Light Verse,'' is in the show, on loan from the Metropolitan Museum. So is a 16th-century brass candlestick inscribed with lines in Persian about the attraction of moths to a flame, a metaphor for a soul's ego-extinguishing passion for God. 
 And as often as not, spiritual yearning is expressed in terms of erotic attraction. One of the grand romances of popular Arabic literature was the Romeo-and-Juliet tale of Majnun and Layla, who fell in love. When Layla's father married her off to some else, Majnun lost his mind. Delirious with ardor and despair, he refused to eat or sleep, and wandered the countryside for years like a wild man. 
 In some versions of the story Layla dies in a distant country, and he pines away in grief. In other accounts, like the one illustrated in a 17th-century Indian painting in the show, the two are reunited, at which point, exhausted with privations, Majnun dies in his beloved's arms. In both cases he is a prototype of the Sufi who has gone the whole, extreme way to become, in the words of the poet Farid al-Din Attar, ''a dead body, a nonexistent heart and a soul scorched away,'' an ego reduced by love to an ash on the arm of God. 
 Not everything about Sufism was so unworldly. For some adherents poverty was more a spiritual than a physical condition, and tokens of it could be sumptuous: a beggar's bowl cast in silver and inlaid with jewels; Korans in gilded bindings; light-reflecting lusterware tiles to decorate tombs. 
 The air of ordinary life permeates Sufi writing. The verses of the great 13th-century poet Mawlana Jalal-al-Din Rumi are sprinkled with kitchen references, off-color jokes, gossipy banter and market talk: ''With God, you get the best deal; he buys your dirty fortune and gives you in exchange light of the soul.'' 
 Institutional Sufism today has corporate dimensions. What began as a reformist spiritual impulse had become an economic and political force. One of the outstanding pieces in Brooklyn's Islamic gallery reinstallation -- organized, like the Sufi show, by Ladan Akbarnia, the museum's associate curator of Islamic art -- is a large 19th- or early-20th-century painting depicting the Battle of Karbala, a violent episode in the dispute between the Sunni and Shia branches of Islam, and one in which Husayn ibn Ali, a pious grandson of the prophet, died a martyr's death. 
 The relationship of Shiism and Sufism, two powerful minorities, has been troubled, even hostile, particularly under orthodox Shiite-dominated governments in Iran, where Sufi mysticism was officially disdained. At the same time certain Sufi orders have closely associated themselves with Shiism. In doing so, Sufism puts into practice a principle of universal spiritual embrace and also shows itself adept in navigating the ways of the world. 
 But that worldliness, while real, is also circumscribed. Sufi literature tells us that 70,000 veils of light and darkness separate people from God. The Sufi's task is to find a way through those veils. That's a full-time job and a confounding and fearful one when light and darkness become the same. 
 Some Sufis have spoken of Black Light, the light of bewilderment, a light so bright that it has the effect of a blackout: everything familiar disappears, ''like the flame of the candle in the presence of the sun,'' as Rumi puts it. The idea is that God is now so blindingly near that all else becomes invisible. He is a vision of everything and nothing, and the devotee is immersed in it. The moth becomes one with the flame. 
 Few practitioners attain so radical a state of absorption. But the desire to find lightness of heart -- to have old spirit-killing depressions and anxiety-causing attachments melted away -- continues. Sufism is very much part of any full definition of Islam today. And today is where ''Light of the Sufis'' leaves us, with two contemporary works. 
 One, called ''Prayer Stone 5,'' is by Pouran Jinchi, an artist who was born in Iran and now lives in New York City. It consists of overlaid rubbings that Ms. Jinchi took of two carved stones in a Shia shrine in the holy city of Mashhad in Iran. One stone was inscribed with the name of Allah, the other with prayers for peace directed to a revered leader in the Shia line of spiritual succession. 
 In and around the lacelike patterns left by the rubbings, Ms. Jinchi has added something of her own: words from Muslim daily prayers written over and over in a minute calligraphic hand, their repetition being the physical equivalent of the Sufi practice of constantly reciting the names of God. 
 The second work, called ''Fragments of Light 2,'' is by Kelly Driscoll, who lives in Brooklyn. It is made up of verses by Rumi etched onto sheets of clear glass that have been bound into a book. The volume, transparent from first page to last, forms a natural link to the Koran page that opens the show. And it gives the final word to a great Sufi singer of spiritual passion, who also happens to be a best-selling poet in the United States and who once summed up his entire life in three short, ardent laser-beam phrases: ''I burned, and burned, and burned.'' 
 ''Light of the Sufis: The Mystical Arts of Islam'' remains on view through Sept. 6 in the newly reinstalled Islamic galleries at the Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Light of the Sufis: The Mystical Arts of Islam: at the Brooklyn Museum
above, ''Portrait of a Sufi,'' Deccan India, 17th century.(PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART)(pg. C27)
''Battle of Karbala,'' Abbas al-Musavi, 19th or 20th century, Iran.
 ''Layla Visits Majnun in the Grove,'' a page from an illustrated manuscript, 17th century, India.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE BROOKLYN MUSEUM)(pg. C30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); POETRY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); MIDDLE EAST (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



316 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: One Health Battle: Doctor vs. Doctor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Doctors' Group Opposes Public Health Insurance Plan'' (news article, June 11):
 The American Medical Association has done it again, coming out on the wrong side of history regarding health care in the United States. 
 Whether whipping up fears of ''socialized medicine'' or more sophisticated expressions like ''government control of health care,'' the A.M.A. has opposed every progressive change in health care financing, including Medicare, which we now take for granted. 
 But most doctors do not belong to the A.M.A., and the A.M.A. does not speak for many of us who believe that the United States should join all other Western countries in providing universal health care. 
 Jay V. Solnick Davis, Calif., June 11, 2009
 The writer, a medical doctor, is a professor in the departments of medicine and microbiology and immunology, University of California, Davis.
 To the Editor:
 The rationale of the American Medical Association in opposing a public option in the Obama health reform plan is that a public option will increase government spending and, by decreasing private insurance penetration, decrease ''choice'' (though since people will have the choice to select the public option that is not a rigorously logical argument).
 The true rationale is the fear of decreased reimbursement as the government gains more control of the health care economy. 
 This lobbying by the A.M.A. goes back many decades; the association fought all prior attempts at universal coverage and was also dead-set against Medicare. 
 As a doctor, I am disappointed but not surprised. The A.M.A. has always been a trade association first and a force for quality and access a distant second. 
 Robert Weisberger Richmond, Va., June 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 You report that the American Medical Association said it ''does not believe that creating a public health insurance option for non-disabled individuals under age 65 is the best way to expand health insurance coverage and lower costs.'' 
 Well, what is the best way? 
 As an uninsured 25-year-old, recently laid off from one of two part-time jobs, I would like to know exactly how the A.M.A. proposes that I get health insurance. 
 It is despicable to see an organization of doctors oppose the creation of affordable health coverage without proposing an alternative. 
 Clearly, the private market has got its moral priorities mixed up, and a public system is the only way forward. Health care is a human right.
 Lee Gargagliano Chicago, June 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The private insurance infrastructure drains nearly a third of health care resources into operational costs, advertising, executive compensation, profits and huge bureaucracies designed to deny health care to the sick. 
 What the United States really needs is a fully public insurance system, not just a public option. 
 This would lower overall costs, provide patients the option to see any doctor, and liberate doctors from the constant hassles of dealing with insurance companies. 
 In a public insurance system, the American Medical Association would have an important role in advocating for adequate reimbursements for doctors.
 The A.M.A. has said it won't even support a public insurance option in health care reform. That's an example of why most physicians don't belong to the A.M.A., and why I don't. The A.M.A. does not speak for me. 
 Paul Quick San Francisco, June 11, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 I read your article with interest. As a young physician, I decided not to join the American Medical Association as a personal protest against its consistent opposition to meaningful health care reform that does not meet the parochial interests of physicians. 
 The A.M.A. just gave me a reason to regret having never joined the organization: now I cannot resign in disgust.
 Richard Gomberg Newton, Mass., June 11, 2009
 Meanwhile, in Canada ...
 To the Editor:
 Re ''This Time, We Won't Scare,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, June 11):
 Mr. Kristof's assertion of national courage captures the telling clinical benefits of the Canadian health care system. 
 One might also mention that the benefits of a national health care system will provide immense economic efficiency and advantage for businesses, which are otherwise challenged to provide alternate forms of profit-driven health care. 
 John Jarrell Calgary, Alberta, June 11, 2009
 The writer is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Calgary and a former chief medical officer, Calgary Health Region.
 To the Editor:
 The lack of a coherent national health care policy has pitted us all against one another when it comes to financing and allocation of resources. 
 Insurance companies just care about profit, and throw roadblocks into the paths of patients. Health care professionals are under tremendous stress, lessening, or even obliterating, the quality of mercy in the way patients are treated. 
 If as a nation, we come to our senses and decide that health care should be primarily for people and not for profit, we'll not only have to do practical things, like study how the Canadians successfully accomplished national health care so that we're not reinventing the wheel; we'll also have to retrain our minds to not look upon one another as enemies when illness enters the picture.
 ''The quality of mercy is not strained'' -- if you're Canadian or Swiss or British or French. 
 Arthur Chertowsky Brooklyn, June 11, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); LOBBYING (78%); IMMUNOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BIOLOGY (53%)

COMPANY: HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN OF GREATER NEW YORK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



317 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Magazine Cover Ads, Subtle and Less So

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
ADS have been creeping onto magazine covers lately.
 Sometimes it's blatant, as at Scholastic Parent & Child, which has been running actual ads on covers. Sometimes it's subtle, as at Entertainment Weekly, which recently made its cover into a pocket, where it inserted a pull-out ad.
 In its July issue, Popular Science is taking a different approach. It has created a cover sponsored by General Electric. But the G.E. affiliation becomes obvious only when the cover is held up to a Web camera. Although other magazine publishers have used cover ads to generate cash, Popular Science did not charge G.E. for the cover. 
 Ads on covers violate rules set by the American Society of Magazine Editors, which requires a clear separation between editorial space and advertising space. Though the repercussions for putting ads on the cover are not severe -- the society sends a letter of reprimand, and occasionally bars the publication from competing in the National Magazine Awards -- magazines have gone to great lengths to avoid clear-cut cover advertisements.
 Us Weekly recently published a mock cover (the real cover was inside) promoting the HBO movie ''Grey Gardens,'' while Esquire has run covers with peel-back sections, with ads printed on the peeled-back flaps.
 The Popular Science cover depicts windmills that look like something out of ''Star Wars,'' and promotes articles about energy. A box announces that the cover is three-dimensional. When a reader holds it up to a computer Webcam, it signals the computer to display Flash-based imagery. The computer shows a 3-D scene of windmills over the cover, and the reader can blow on the computer microphone to move the windmills' blades.
 The technology is called augmented reality. It combines a real image with a virtual one, and viewers can adjust the real image to change the virtual one. To kick-start the technology, the providers ask viewers to hold up a trigger image -- the cover, in this case -- to a Webcam. (People without the Popular Science cover can go to www.popsci.com/imagination beginning Tuesday to print out a copy of the cover and use the program.)
 Augmented reality has become a popular gimmick among brand marketers, who like to see people interact with their advertisements. The beef jerky company Jack Link's introduced LivingSasquatch.com in April, allowing customers to interact with an image of a sasquatch, the company's mascot. This month, Papa John's International is introducing a pizza box that can be held up to a Webcam and turned into a virtual car (it is a replica of the company founder's 1972 Camaro). And G.E. has been running an augmented-reality windmill site since its Super Bowl commercial that promoted the company's smart grid technology.
 ''We thought this was a high-tech way of expressing what we were doing with respect to the grid, but doing it in a very fun, simple, interactive way,'' said Jennifer Walsh, global director of digital media at G.E. ''What we do typically is brand advertising, so we're not particularly hawking a wind turbine in this instance, but we are trying to create general awareness and create some educational pieces about the benefits of the smart grid.''
 The G.E. program caught the eye of Popular Science executives, who were planning a July cover about energy, and the magazine asked if it could run the augmented-reality imagery, with the G.E. logo, on its own site.
 ''They had this wonderful existing creative, we had this editorial package, and we just felt like there was a good marriage or a good synergy between what we were doing and the message they were trying to get out,'' said Gregg Hano, the publisher of the Popular Science Media Group, part of the Bonnier Corporation.
 Although other magazines have said the terrible economy has driven them to offer cover ads for high prices -- Scholastic Parent & Child said its cover ads, sold out for the rest of the year, should increase 2009 revenues by 10 percent -- Mr. Hano elected not to charge G.E. 
 ''We do not in any way want to compromise editorial integrity or give the impression of compromising editorial integrity in any way, and our feeling was that the partnership we came up with, and the commitment they made to us in in-book advertising, was sufficient to make this project work for all of us,'' Mr. Hano said.
 Despite that commitment to editorial integrity, he said he had considered putting G.E.-branded turbines on the cover, but decided not to since the cover illustration was already under way.
 In return for the subtle cover promotion and showcasing of its augmented-reality images, he asked G.E. to buy three pages of ads in the issue. Popular Science would not confirm how much G.E. paid, but according to its stated ad rates, G.E. would pay around $370,000 -- though magazines usually offer big discounts. 
 Christian Haas, group creative director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group, which created the G.E. augmented-reality program, said the Popular Science-specific site did not require much tinkering. It is basically the same windmill image, with G.E. branding added, though the cover placement was unique. ''I don't remember seeing anything like that before, and that's why we thought it was so interesting,'' he said. 
 For G.E., which only had to buy ads for its energy programs in an energy issue of a science magazine, it was an easy decision.
 ''The publication signaled an interest: 'Hey, we'd like to use your technology, and by the way, we're doing a cover story on energy,' and that's where light bulbs went on,'' Ms. Walsh said. ''What a great issue to be an advertiser in.'' As for the G.E.-sponsored site, she said, ''For me, it's like 'Oh cool, free publicity.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The July Popular Science features a three-dimensional cover activated by a Web camera and sponsored by General Electric. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (79%); PUBLISHING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (74%); FAST FOOD (64%)

COMPANY: PAPA JOHN'S INTERNATIONAL INC (80%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: PZZA (NASDAQ) (80%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



318 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Bank Chief Says U.S. Pushed Merrill Deal

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and JO BECKER

 BODY:
Flanked by a coterie of lawyers and lobbyists, Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's embattled chief executive, walked into yet another Congressional hearing room on Thursday as the sole witness in a merger drama that has shadowed his banking empire for months.
 But this time, lawmakers turned the spotlight on personalities who were not seated in the chamber: the federal officials who had pushed him to complete a troubled merger with Merrill Lynch late last year, despite knowing that huge losses riddled the once-mighty Wall Street firm. 
 Those officials, most prominently Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former secretary of the Treasury, will be called to testify before lawmakers soon. But the twists and turns of their conversations with Mr. Lewis came into full view on Thursday, through scores of e-mail messages and other documents from the Federal Reserve and Bank of America obtained by The New York Times.
 Bank of America announced its deal with Merrill in September, as financial markets were seizing up and Lehman Brothers fell to its knees. But Mr. Lewis grew less certain once the bank discovered that Merrill's finances were worse than imagined, and considered pulling out of the deal. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Lewis maintained that federal officials pressured him to keep the merger alive, and acknowledged that his job had been at risk if he did not. But he resisted lawmakers' efforts to characterize the situation as a threat. And he backed away from earlier statements in which he suggested that Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson had urged him not to reveal Merrill's troubling state before the merger was sealed, calling them ''two honorable people'' who had ''good intentions.''
 ''It's important to remember that we have heard only one side of the story today,'' said Edolphus Towns, a Democrat from New York who heads the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which held the hearing. But, he said, ''the regulators and financial institutions seemed to be making up the rules as they went along.''
 For a merger once hailed as the way forward for Wall Street, the backstory keeps getting messier. The bank's executives, including Mr. Lewis, face continued scrutiny from regulators and pressure from shareholders. 
 And Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke, who thought preserving a deal would keep markets calm in the thick of the financial crisis, are being questioned on whether they pressured a company's executives into ignoring their duty to their shareholders.
 According to notes taken by Bank of America executives to record their conversations with regulators at the time, Timothy F. Geithner, now the secretary of the Treasury, and Lawrence H. Summers, currently the president's lead economics adviser, were also aware of the effort to seal a merger as the Bush administration prepared a transition to the incoming administration of Barack Obama.
 Mr. Lewis, for instance, typed up notes from a phone call he had on Dec. 31 with Mr. Bernanke on the subject of the merger. According to the notes, which were provided to the Congressional committee by Bank of America, Mr. Bernanke told him: ''Geithner, Sommers and Paulson up to date. Geithner would like to see what is done as a template for the industry.''
 On Thursday, Mr. Lewis said in the hearing that he had never spoken directly with either Obama administration official. 
 Among the additional documents obtained by The Times on Thursday were more notes from Bank of America's chief financial officer, Joe L. Price. ''Tim can't/isn't directly engaging with 3rd parties -- tough confirmation hearings et al coming,'' Mr. Price wrote from a conversation he had with Kevin Warsh, a Federal Reserve governor.
 A spokesman for Mr. Geithner said Thursday: ''It was perfectly natural and appropriate that the incoming Treasury secretary would be kept apprised of key developments but he was not making decisions for the government.'' 
 A spokesman for Mr. Summers said that he ''had occasional conversations with Federal Reserve officials during the transition, but was not involved in any decision-making regarding financial institutions.''
 The Federal Reserve declined to comment on the notes related to the phone calls. 
 If Mr. Lewis had tried to exit from the merger, it would have involved a fight over the bank's ''material adverse change'' clause, known as M.A.C., in the deal. Unlike in some deals, that clause did not include an automatic resetting of the price for Merrill if the investment bank suffered losses. Mr. Lewis acknowledged at the hearing that he did not know whether the bank could have won a lower price or exited from the deal if he had used that clause.
 Lawmakers read from e-mail messages sent by Jeffrey Lacker of the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank to his colleagues after a conversation with Mr. Bernanke, whom Mr. Lacker said believed that ''the M.A.C. threat is irrelevant because it's not credible.''
 Mr. Lewis said at the hearing: ''This was not some wild bluff.'' 
 One lawmaker, Dennis Kucinich, a Democrat from Ohio, read from e-mail messages between other Federal Reserve officials that said Mr. Lewis had asked regulators to issue a letter that said the government had ordered him to close the deal with Merrill. 
 But regulators refused. ''We shouldn't take him off the hook by appearing to take the decision out of his hands,'' one employee of the Federal Reserve wrote, according to Mr. Kucinich.
 Mr. Lewis said he did not recall requesting a letter of that sort. But he said he requested written details of the assistance that the government would provide.
 When Mr. Bernanke appears before the House committee, he is likely to be questioned about whether he instructed bank officials to avoid or delay disclosing Merrill's weakened state. Mr. Bernanke wrote in a letter to Mr. Kucinich in April that he and others at the Fed did not. 
 Mr. Lewis reiterated Thursday that government pressure did not extend to the bank's decision not to disclose Merrill's problems. But that contradicted testimony Mr. Lewis gave to the attorney general of New York early this year, according to a transcript. And internal Federal Reserve documents released on Thursday raised more questions about Mr. Bernanke's denial.
 For instance, one senior official in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Arthur Angulo, wrote on Dec. 22 that the timing of any Merrill disclosure was a ''critical issue.'' 
 In an e-mail message to colleagues, Mr. Angulo said he planned to call Merrill to ''steer'' it toward later disclosure. Four hours later, Merrill's chief financial officer received that call from Mr. Angulo and then documented it in an e-mail message. 
 ''His hope is that there is no disclosure prior to BOA quarterly announcement,'' the chief financial officer wrote. ''We told him this was the current plan,'' adding that he was told to alert the Fed if that plan changed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kenneth D. Lewis, chief executive of Bank of America, testified Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B1)
 Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America before a House panel. Behind him is part of a presentation on e-mail messages between federal officials discussing the bank's acquisition of Merrill Lynch.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ACQUISITIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (91%); BEN BERNANKE (74%); HENRY PAULSON (74%); ED TOWNS (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



319 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 427 words

BYLINE: By The New York Times

 BODY:
TOBACCO LEGISLATION The Senate approved a bill enabling the government to impose new controls on the making of tobacco products, the final hurdle for the legislation. President Obama has indicated that he will sign it. 
 Tobacco gained popularity decades ago, but government efforts to control it are relatively recent. A turning point was a televised hearing in 1994 overseen by Representative Henry A. Waxman, above. [A4.] 
 STIMULUS RESULTS The United States and Europe adopted different approaches to dealing with the financial crisis, and some economists are predicting the American strategy will pay off this year while Europe's economy may remain in recession well into 2010. [A1.] 
 DEALERS LOBBY CONGRESS About 2,000 Chrysler and General Motors dealers are losing their franchises as the carmakers reorganize under federal oversight. In response, the owners are appealing to lawmakers to save jobs in their districts. [B1.] 
 AIRLINE PASSENGER CLAIMS Some passengers of the US Airways flight that landed in the Hudson River are frustrated with the handling of their claims by the airline's insurer, the American International Group. [B1.] 
 RESHAPING ENERGY GOALS A major power company in the Pacific Northwest is increasingly investing in wind power, and environmentalists see this as an opportunity to help save wild salmon by pressing for the removal of the company's dams, also used as an energy source. [B1.] 
 DIVISION OVER PAY PLAN A dispute broke out among members of a House committee over whether the government should have the power to curb executive compensation at all companies, not just those receiving federal assistance. [B4.] 
 RETAIL SPENDING UP Retail sales increased 0.5 percent in May, partly because of higher gas prices. The Labor Department also reported that first-time jobless claims fell more than expected last week. [B5.] 
 AIRBUS DECISION DELAYED Germany and France postponed for six months a decision on whether to proceed with the troubled A400M military transport from Airbus, which is years behind schedule. [B6.] 
 HEARING ON MERRILL Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, told a House committee that his bank was pressured to merge with Merrill Lynch. Ben S. Bernanke, of the Federal Reserve, and Henry M. Paulson, above, the former secretary of the Treasury, will be called to testify before lawmakers soon. [B1.] 
 CHINA'S TURNABOUT China reported that its exports fell a record 26.4 percent in May, and some economists said the country had become too dependent on domestic investments. [B6.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (79%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); TESTIMONY (73%); AVIATION INSURANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); WIND ENERGY (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); RETAIL SALES (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); AIRBUS SAS (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); KENNETH D LEWIS (57%); HENRY WAXMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



320 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Clashes Over Pay Restrictions

BYLINE: By CYRUS SANATI

 BODY:
Less than a day after the Obama administration announced a plan to set executive pay levels at bailed-out companies like Citigroup and Bank of America, a spat broke out among members of a House committee on Thursday about the regulation of corporate compensation.
 The ideological clash came at a hearing before the House Financial Services Committee during which lawmakers debated whether executive pay should be curbed at all companies, not just those receiving federal money. 
 The topic sent the committee's Republican members into an uproar, with several balking at the idea of the government setting rules that would interfere with the internal affairs of companies. 
 ''There is no question that there have been some questionable decisions made by some of our major corporations regarding executive pay,'' said Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the committee's ranking Republican. ''However, I strongly believe that it is neither the executive branch nor Congress's role to mandate compensation policies, or the role of this Congress or the executive branch to say who sits on a corporate board of directors or interfere with governance in any way.''
 Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the chairman of the committee, disagreed, saying it needed to come up with a bill that would alter the structure of executive pay before the Congressional summer recess. 
 ''I believe the structure of compensation is flawed,'' Mr. Frank said. ''Namely, we have had a system of compensation for top decision makers in which they are very well rewarded if they take a risk that pays off but suffer no penalty if they take a risk that costs the company money.''
 Lucian A. Bebchuk, a Harvard law professor who testified at the hearing, had similar criticisms about the banking industry in particular.
 In a written version of his opening statement to the committee, he argued that banks' lopsided pay structure had encouraged dangerous risk-taking. ''Because top bank executives were paid with shares of a bank holding company or options on such shares, and both banks and bank holding companies obtained capital from debtholders, executives faced asymmetric payoffs, expecting to benefit more from large gains than to lose from large losses of a similar magnitude.''
 Many Republicans on the committee expressed concern that the administration was using the financial crisis to extend its grasp over the private sector. While they generally said they approved setting compensation limits on those companies that took money under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, they stopped short of supporting legislation that would broadly change corporate governance practices. 
 ''Executives at failed companies that come to the taxpayers with tin cup in hand must be subject to compensation limits. Period, paragraph, let there be no doubt,'' said Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas. ''Except for the first principle, Congress has no business setting artificial and mandatory limits on anyone's pursuit of their American dream.''
 Officials from the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve were on hand Thursday to describe the Obama administration's stance, reiterating Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's statements from Wednesday on executive compensation. The recommendations were focused on increasing the power and independence of corporate compensation committees and giving shareholders a nonbinding vote on executive pay, through what are known as ''say on pay'' provisions.
 ''Our goal is to help ensure that there is a much closer alignment between compensation, sound risk management and long-term value creation for firms and the economy as a whole,'' Gene Sperling, counselor to the Treasury secretary, said in his opening remarks. ''Our goal is not to have the government micromanage private sector compensation.''
 Although Wall Street may be the focus of the pay debate right now, he suggested that the problem was much wider.
 ''While the financial sector has been at the center of this issue, we believe that compensation practices must be better aligned with long-term value and prudent risk management at all firms, and not just for the financial services industry,'' Mr. Sperling said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I believe the structure of compensation is flawed,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BAILOUT BONUSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%); JEB HENSARLING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



321 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton Sees Hope for Health Care Changes, This Time

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As President Obama's drive to remake the nation's health care system shifts into high gear this summer, one thing he wants to do is avoid making the mistakes President Bill Clinton made. And one person who thinks he will be able is Mr. Clinton himself.
 As he watches the new Democratic president take on the issue that stymied him 16 years ago, Mr. Clinton has concluded that Mr. Obama has a better chance than he did, both because of the way the new proposals are structured and because of a national mood that is more supportive of major action. 
 ''He's got a better Congress, a more receptive climate,'' Mr. Clinton said in a recent interview. ''He also has, frankly, a better -- at least more politically saleable -- set of proposals.''
 Mr. Clinton has had plenty of time, of course, to think about what went wrong when he and Hillary Rodham Clinton tried to enact universal coverage in 1993. With a task force that operated largely in secret, the first lady drew up a detailed and complicated plan that met with fierce opposition by the health care industry and Republicans before it ultimately sank of its own weight in a Democratic Congress.
 Mr. Obama is approaching the issue in a different way. Rather than developing his own detailed proposal, he is setting out broad principles and letting lawmakers draft the specifics of a plan that they believe can pass. And to achieve universal coverage, instead of Mr. Clinton's plan to require employers to provide it, Mr. Obama envisions creating a government-run health plan that would compete with private insurers. 
 Mr. Clinton said that as he looked at the matter in 1993 he believed that he had two options for providing universal coverage: either a tax increase or an employer mandate. Since he had already expended a lot of political capital on a deficit-reduction plan that included tax increases as well as spending cuts, he said he had to rely on the employer mandate.
 ''If you had an employer mandate, then you could leave the small businesses out or come up with enough revenues to subsidize the smaller employers -- and since we couldn't raise taxes, having an employer mandate guaranteed that the National Federation of Independent Businesses would join with the insurance companies,'' he said. ''Now they don't have to have an employer mandate, because they can offer buy-ins. I hope they won't give up on this public option.''
 Jacob S. Hacker, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and author of ''The Road to Nowhere,'' a book about the Clinton health plan, said the former president's analysis is correct.
 ''The political and economic circumstances are much more auspicious for health care reform today than they were when he tried and failed,'' Mr. Hacker said. In part, he said, that owes to the deep economic crisis and to Mr. Obama's different strategy.
 ''But now comes the hard part: pressing Congress to find the resources and include the cost-containment measures needed to make real reform happen,'' restore public faith in politics and persuade reformers to accept Mr. Obama's pragmatic approach, he said.
 On the other hand, Joseph Antos, a health care expert at the American Enterprise Institute, faulted Mr. Clinton's analysis. ''I take it that President Clinton thinks we don't have to pay for a big expansion today,'' Mr. Antos said. ''The Blue Dog Democrats and the Republicans disagree, and President Obama also seems to disagree.''
 Still, Mr. Antos concurred that Mr. Clinton ''over-reached in not taking small business concerns into account 15 years ago.'' ''In general, that's the difference between then and now in terms of the White House stance,'' he said. And where the Clintons insisted on pushing their entire package, Mr. Antos said, Mr. Obama seems more flexible.
 ''Obama's approach can almost be characterized as the un-Clinton approach,'' said Henry Aaron, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''He laid out broad principles and encouraged Congress to come up with a plan or plans consistent with those principles.''
 Still, he added, the key will be finding a politically acceptable way to pay for whatever plan emerges, and that's where things get particularly tricky. ''The odds are way less than 50-50,'' he said.
 Indeed, even if Mr. Obama can avoid the mistakes of the Clinton era, he must avoid making new ones all his own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); INSURANCE (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); WRITERS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



322 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Ground Zero Talks Still Stalled

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's deadline passed Thursday without a breakthrough in the impasse at ground zero between the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the developer Larry Silverstein over construction of office towers on the site. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, who had set a June 11 deadline for the parties to reach an agreement, issued a statement on Thursday afternoon saying that talks would continue through the weekend. The city and Mr. Silverstein made a proposal earlier this week, but the two sides remained at odds. 
 ''Governor Paterson, Governor Corzine, Speaker Silver and I spoke today, and -- together with Larry Silverstein and the Port Authority -- we agreed to extend the conversation through the weekend,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in a statement, adding, ''We'll have another update on Monday.''
 Last month, Mr. Bloomberg convened a high-level meeting of state officials from New York and New Jersey, as well as executives from the Port Authority and Silverstein Properties, all of whom pledged to quickly reach a compromise.
 Mr. Silverstein has asked the authority to guarantee the financing for two of the three towers he is to build at the World Trade Center site -- as much as $3.2 billion -- because he is unable to obtain tenants and loans for the project.
 The authority, which is building a skyscraper of its own at the site, is reluctant to pour more money into speculative commercial buildings when vacancy rates are rising downtown. The authority has offered to assist Mr. Silverstein with one tower. He has insisted that construction should proceed on at least two towers so that they will be ready when the economy rebounds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



323 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Obama Officials to Skip Event For Mayors, Citing Picket Line

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and other top Obama administration officials have canceled plans to attend a United States Conference of Mayors meeting this weekend in Providence, R.I., because local firefighters will picket the event over a contract dispute. 
 The cancellation has angered organizers of the meeting, who said they had worked with White House officials to plan the program and had been counting on them to play a major role. Tom Cochran, executive director of the group, said the meeting would focus on how cities could benefit from President Obama's economic stimulus law.
 ''We're just absolutely frustrated that the White House has decided at the request of a union to boycott our meeting,'' Mr. Cochran said Thursday. ''This is the worst economic crisis we've had since the 1930s, and this will be first time ever when there's not one representative of the federal government here with us.''
 Mr. Obama's press secretary, Robert Gibbs, first raised the possibility last week that the administration could pull out of the conference. Mr. Gibbs said the International Association of Fire Fighters had asked the administration to ''respect the picket'' planned by members of the union's local chapter. 
 ''While this administration is taking no position on the circumstances of the dispute itself,'' Mr. Gibbs said at the time, ''we have always respected picket lines, and administration officials will not cross this one.''
 The union, which represents about 500 local firefighters, has been fighting with the city for a decade over contract benefits. Mayor David N. Cicilline met with union leaders this week in an effort to resolve the impasse. 
 A White House spokeswoman, Moira Mack, said Thursday that if a compromise was reached, ''we'll certainly re-evaluate the schedules of the administration officials who had been planning to attend.'' 
 Besides Mr. Biden, administration officials who have pulled out of the conference include Valerie Jarrett, a senior White House adviser; Lisa P. Jackson, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator; Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan; Commerce Secretary Gary Locke; Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis; and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.
 Jeff Zack, a spokesman for the International Association of Fire Fighters, said Thursday night that leaders of the Providence chapter, Local 799, were negotiating with Mr. Cicilline and that a compromise was possible. 
 But Mr. Cicilline, a Democrat, said that was unlikely. He characterized the union's decision to picket as ''political extortion,'' adding, ''I won't give in to that.''
 Mr. Cochran of the United States Conference of Mayors said that about 180 mayors had registered for the meeting and that none had canceled, though a few had called asking for details about the labor dispute.
 ''There's no strike here,'' he said. ''They are in binding arbitration, and these are educational pickets, educational protests.''
 Providence was chosen five years ago as the site of the meeting this year, Mr. Cochran said, adding that he never expected the contract dispute to be a problem. 
 ''I just thought it was a labor dispute up here,'' he said. ''I had no idea it would escalate to a boycott of our meeting.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); CONTRACTS LAW (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIRE FIGHTERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE BIDEN (79%); DAVID CICILLINE (78%); LISA P JACKSON (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); GARY LOCKE (58%); HILDA L SOLIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



324 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes His Health Care Case to the Public

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and ROBERT PEAR. 
Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from Green Bay, and Robert Pear from Washington.

DATELINE: GREEN BAY, Wis. 

 BODY:
President Obama, taking his case for a health care overhaul directly to the American people, on Thursday vigorously defended his call for a government-sponsored health plan to compete with private insurers. But back in Washington, a leading Senate Democrat seemed to be looking for a compromise that would limit government involvement.
 Mr. Obama came to Green Bay, a city he praised for getting ''more quality out of fewer health care dollars than many other communities,'' as part of an intense push for overhauling health care, his highest legislative priority. But with his insistence on a ''public option'' generating increased skepticism on Capitol Hill, he defended it as necessary to spur competition in the marketplace. 
 ''If the private insurance companies have to compete with a public option, it will keep them honest and it will help keep their prices down,'' Mr. Obama said. Arguing that controlling health costs is crucial to the nation's economic health, he said Republican criticism of a public plan was unfounded.
 ''Right now a number of my Republican friends have said, 'We can't support anything with a public option,' '' he said. ''It's not clear that it's based on any evidence as much as it is their thinking, their fear, that somehow once you have a public plan that government will take over the entire health care system.''
 But Mr. Obama neglected to mention that some centrist Democrats have qualms about a new government health plan. Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the chairman of the Finance Committee, who is leading an effort to draft a health care bill, said Thursday that the public plan could take the form of an insurance cooperative that would be owned and operated for the benefit of its members, but not run by the government.
 ''I am inclined, and I think the committee is inclined, toward a co-op,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''It's not going to be public, we won't call it public, but it will be tough enough to keep insurance companies' feet to the fire.''
 The Senate finance panel plans to take up the legislation on June 23. Aides to Mr. Baucus said the bill the committee would consider would be jointly offered by Mr. Baucus and Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the panel. 
 Mr. Obama has said he wants bipartisan support for a health care bill. Whether he would accept the co-op idea is unclear; a number of alternatives are being considered on Capitol Hill, and Mr. Obama has not addressed any of them specifically. His deputy press secretary, Bill Burton, said Thursday that the president wanted to remain ''flexible.''
 But the co-op idea might address some concerns of the American Medical Association, the nation's largest doctors' group, which has expressed strong opposition to a government-run plan. The association said it was ''willing to consider'' a co-op health plan; Mr. Obama plans to travel to Chicago on Monday to speak to the group.
 The idea of creating health insurance cooperatives was first floated as a possible compromise by Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. Under Mr. Conrad's approach, a co-op would be run by members at a state or even national level. He posited that such a co-op could begin with some ''seed money,'' receive a federal charter, collect premiums and provide benefits for its members.
 Mr. Obama began the health care debate this year by setting out his goals in broad strokes: he wants to extend health care to the nation's 45 million uninsured, while preserving consumer choice and cutting health care costs. He said at first he would leave the details to Congress, but over the past week, he has been increasingly involved in the legislative process. In a letter to top Senate Democrats last week, he stated his strong preference for a public plan.
 The appearance in a high school gymnasium here on Thursday, however, was the first time Mr. Obama had used his presidential platform to defend the idea at length. He said the public option would ''ensure coverage for people where the free market system fails,'' adding, ''We've got to admit that the free market has not worked perfectly when it comes to health care.''
 The idea of a public option also has strong support from the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California. At her weekly news conference on Thursday, Ms. Pelosi asserted that a public option would indeed be part of any legislation emanating from the House and said she would be opposed to a co-op proposal offered as a substitute for a public option.
 In the Senate, Republicans expressed alarm at the shape of legislation being developed by Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, both Democrats. 
 Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, called the bill ''the most liberal bunch of gobbledygook I've seen in my life -- a complete liberal mishmash of ideas.'' 
 Senator Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, the senior Republican on the health committee, said, ''The Democrats are more concerned about meeting deadlines than getting it right.'' Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said the Democrats were ''rushing headlong into this reform'' without knowing the cost of their proposals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama discussing his plan to overhaul health care on Thursday in a gymnasium at Southwest High in Green Bay, Wis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MAX BAUCUS (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



325 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Abuse Photos Part of Agreement on Military Spending

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Scott Shane contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional negotiators reached tentative agreement on Thursday on a $105.9 billion spending measure that would provide money for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through September but would drop a ban on the release of photographs showing abuse of foreign prisoners held by United States forces.
 The deal was concluded after Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, went to the Capitol to assure Senate Democrats that President Obama would use all administrative and legal means to prevent the photos' release. At the same time, a federal court issued a ruling effectively ensuring that the photos would not be released for months, if ever. 
 Mr. Obama followed up with a letter, promising to work with Congress if legislation was necessary to keep the photos from being publicized but urging lawmakers not to let the dispute interfere with freeing up the money for the armed forces.
 ''Given the singular importance of providing funding for our troops, it is essential that Congress pass the supplemental appropriations bill,'' Mr. Obama wrote in the letter, which was read publicly at the negotiating session by Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii and the Appropriations Committee chairman.
 The photo restriction, approved by the Senate, was viewed by some Democratic House members as an end run around federal freedom of information laws. It was dropped to appease Democrats already uneasy about approving nearly $80 billion for combat and more money for aid to Afghanistan and Pakistan.
 Democrats said they could not secure enough votes to pass the bill if the photo ban were included. But Republicans threatened to try to block the measure if the ban were cut out, saying the photos could incite terrorists and endanger Americans overseas. 
 ''What good are we to our soldiers if we can't protect them in a time like this?'' asked Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. ''Every photo is a bullet for our enemy.'' 
 He and his allies, including Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said Mr. Obama should take executive action to block the release of the photos by ordering them classified. 
 The administration's cause was bolstered when a federal appeals court in New York announced last Thursday that it had granted a request by the Obama administration and recalled its April 27 order to release the photographs, permitting the administration to take the case to the Supreme Court. 
 In effect, the decision by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit means it will be months before there is any chance that the Defense Department could be ordered to release the photographs. 
 Amrit Singh, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, which is seeking the release of the photographs as part of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit, said she was disappointed by the court's ruling. ''It will only serve to delay further the release of these photographs, which are critical for informing the ongoing public debate about the treatment of prisoners,'' she said. 
 Ms. Singh said the photos portrayed abuse in Afghanistan and Iraq in places other than Abu Ghraib prison, the Iraq jail made infamous in 2004 by photographs of abuse there, and would therefore show that abuse was ''not aberrational but systemic.'' 
 The photo issue is just one of several that are likely to generate opposition to the bill, which would also set aside $7.7 billion to prepare for a flu pandemic, provide $1 billion to encourage consumers to trade in older cars for more fuel-efficient models and allow detainees at the Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, center to be brought to the United States for trial. 
 The measure also clears the way for a $100 billion line of credit for the International Monetary Fund, which was the initial source of trouble for the spending bill. Republicans strongly supported the spending legislation when it was considered this year, but have threatened to withhold their support over the foreign aid, saying some of the money could go to unfriendly governments. 
 With Republicans abandoning the measure, Democrats need as many votes as they can win over and the ban on releasing the photos emerged as a major obstacle. In the meeting of House and Senate negotiators late Thursday afternoon, efforts to reinstate the ban were beaten back.
 Some lawmakers also questioned including $1 billion to encourage owners of older cars to trade them in for more fuel-efficient models. That program, known as Cash for Clunkers, is nominally aimed at helping the environment and reducing carbon emissions, but many lawmakers who pushed for it were primarily interested in lifting vehicle sales to prop up the struggling auto industry. 
 The provision had not originally been included by either the House or Senate. And critics, mainly Republicans but also some Democrats, charged that it was a brazen giveaway of tax dollars to bankrupt auto companies that had already received billions in federal bailout assistance. But an effort to eliminate the money was defeated. 
 The bill also includes $8 million to pay for a new commission to examine the causes of the financial and economic crisis. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and other senators voiced opposition Thursday to releasing detainee photos.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); APPEALS COURTS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); LAWYERS (72%); JUDGES (70%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (65%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); DANIEL INOUYE (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



326 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Blaming the Guy Who Came Before Doesn't Work Long

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As President Obama struggles to turn around the moribund economy and confront multiple international issues, he wastes few opportunities to remind the country that the problems are not of his making.
 ''The financial crisis this administration inherited is still creating painful challenges for businesses and families alike,'' Mr. Obama said this week as he proposed spending limits.
 ''We inherited a financial crisis unlike any that we've seen in our time,'' he said last week as he thrust General Motors into bankruptcy. 
 His advisers and allies follow the same script. ''The Obama administration inherited a situation at Guantanamo that was intolerable,'' James L. Jones, the national security adviser, said of the military prison in Cuba. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton defended the Obama foreign policy in the same vein. ''We inherited a lot of problems,'' she said.
 Mr. Obama is hardly the first president to point to his predecessor. Ronald Reagan blamed Jimmy Carter for the poor economy he inherited, just as Bill Clinton blamed the first President Bush and the younger Mr. Bush then blamed Mr. Clinton. Former Bush aides like Karl Rove argue that Mr. Obama has done it more extensively and routinely than other presidents have, although the Obama team denies that.
 But at a certain point, a new president assumes ownership of the problems and finds himself answering for his own actions. For Mr. Obama, even some advisers say that moment may be coming soon.
 Mr. Obama got a taste of that in recent days as he and his White House were put on the defensive trying to explain why the unemployment rate had risen to 9.4 percent when his staff had predicted it would peak at 8 percent as long as Congress passed his stimulus plan, which lawmakers dutifully did. Mr. Obama obviously did not create the recession passed to him, but it was his administration that set the expectation that his policy would keep it from deepening as far as it has.
 Challenges stacking up overseas may increasingly be seen as Mr. Obama's soon enough too, say advisers, critics and some outside experts. By sending an extra 21,000 American troops to Afghanistan and replacing the commander there, Mr. Obama has now made that war his, as many analysts in Washington see it. The forceful position toward Israel that Mr. Obama has adopted in recent weeks over settlement expansion may also make the Palestinian conflict more and more his own problem.
 ''I think they've got till summer'' until these issues become fully vested with Mr. Obama, said Ed Gillespie, a former White House counselor to Mr. Bush. ''But the novelty's already starting to wear off.'' 
 Like many other former Bush aides, Mr. Gillespie bristles at the fingers pointed at his onetime boss. ''Blaming Bush just is not going to resonate'' soon, he said. ''And it's not what people are looking for in their president. They're looking for somebody who's not blaming somebody but is going to solve problems.''
 David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, said the White House was not trying to shift blame with its frequent invocation of the ''inheritance'' it had from Mr. Bush, but to seek public patience for policies that may require months and in some cases years to pay dividends. 
 ''Whatever problems he inherited walking in the door, they're his responsibility now,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''Nobody's trying to duck responsibility or make excuses for them. But it is important at times to put it into perspective, not to fix blame but to underscore that some of these problems are complex and they're going to take time to solve.''
 Analysts and historians say presidents can usually deflect fault in this way until their own policies have time to take effect.
 ''When a president tries new policies to deal with old problems and then new policies appear to be failed policies, then he owns it,'' said George C. Edwards III, a presidential scholar at Texas A&M University. ''That's the challenge for a president.''
 David Winston, a Republican strategist, said that could happen even when people began to question whether those new policies were working. That is one reason the White House has pushed hard in recent days to make the case that its expansive spending program is beginning to show results even as it tries to reassure the public that it will rein in the spiraling budget deficit.
 The spurt of public events came as the latest employment numbers showed that job losses were slowing even though the unemployment rate continued to rise.
 Mr. Obama and his advisers assert that the $787 billion stimulus package enacted in February has already created or saved 150,000 jobs and will create or save 600,000 more this summer. But hundreds of thousands of jobs are still disappearing each month, and White House claims about ''saved'' jobs are hard to document. 
 The White House was forced to explain why its stimulus plan did not stop unemployment from rising above 8 percent, as it said in January that it would. White House economists said that forecast was consistent with independent predictions at the time and did not account for just how deep the recession really was in the last quarter of last year -- in other words, under Mr. Bush. 
 ''The recession just turned out to be deeper than was predicted,'' Mr. Axelrod said. 
 Without the Obama plan, the White House argued, it would be even worse today.
 At the same time, one by one Mr. Obama is effectively assuming ownership of the foreign policy issues he found when he took over from Mr. Bush. Some are easier than others to continue blaming his predecessor for. As North Korea defies Mr. Obama, he can point out that Pyongyang developed its nuclear weapons on Mr. Bush's watch.
 But on other issues, Mr. Obama is clearly applying his own imprint, and will get credit if it succeeds and criticism if it does not. The most obvious example of that is Afghanistan, where he has increased troop levels far beyond what Mr. Bush had in the field and ousted the previous military commander.
 ''At that point I really think Afghanistan became Obama's war,'' said John A. Nagl, president of the Center for a New American Security, a research organization founded by national security specialists who now work in the Obama administration. ''When you choose your commander, you are accepting full responsibility.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ED GILLESPIE: Former aide to President George W. Bush.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 DAVID AXELROD: Senior adviser to President Obama.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ARMED FORCES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); PRISONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); KARL ROVE (58%); JAMES L JONES (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CUBA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



327 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Auto Dealers at Risk Turn to Washington

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and BERNIE BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Auto dealers accustomed to negotiating sales on their car lots clustered in the Capitol instead this week, looking to their trusty, neighborhood lawmakers to do some hard bargaining for them.
 With about 2,000 Chrysler and General Motors dealers losing their franchises as the companies retrench, the dealers are pressing Congress to reverse what they see as an unfair process forcing some profitable businesses to close or stop selling new autos, with no explanation from the manufacturers of why they were singled out.
 ''We have never gotten one,'' said Rick Shaub, the owner of Montrose Dodge in Germantown, Md. He was with fellow dealers outside the office of the House majority leader, Steny H. Hoyer, on Wednesday, the day after his family's three-generation relationship with Chrysler came to an end. 
 As they lobby Congress, angry dealers are finding an increasingly receptive audience in the House and Senate, where lawmakers say the mass termination of franchises by the bankrupt car companies is threatening tens of thousands of jobs, not to mention the civic fabric of communities where car dealerships are often a chief local institution. 
 ''The dealers in these small towns are kind of the heart of the town,'' said Senator Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, who estimated that 12 G.M. dealers and six Chrysler dealers were affected in his state. ''They sponsor the Little League; the big guy in town is usually the car dealer. I am worried about it.''
 But the campaign on behalf of the dealers is also providing a test of one of the central criticisms of the government's intrusion into the operations of many companies, from banks to insurers to auto giants. Even as they talk tough about the mismanagement of car companies, can members of Congress withstand political pressure and allow Chrysler and G.M. to make tough economic decisions that might hurt their own constituents?
 For instance, Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the House Financial Services Committee, came under fire for intervening with G.M. to keep a parts distribution center open in his district, preserving about 90 jobs for another year. Critics said Mr. Frank used his sway as an overseer of federal bailout money to intervene in the company's decision-making.
 Mr. Frank said that he made a common-sense argument to keep the center open, and that he was only standing up for his constituents. ''I will bear up under the criticism that I have been doing too much for my district,'' he said. 
 Other lawmakers said the growing number of calls for intervention showed the dangers of large-scale government involvement in the auto companies, saying the result would be lawmakers trying to serve as top executives of auto companies.
 ''It is incestuous for members of Congress to be saying, 'Close this plant; use this model; don't buy the Volt battery in South Korea but make it in my district,' '' said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, referring to the G.M. hybrid car now in development.
 Senator Alexander has instituted a ''car czar of the day'' award in recognition of Congressional meddling. ''What do people in Washington know about building cars?'' he said. ''I don't think very much.''
 Even lawmakers backing the dealers expressed mixed emotions about dipping into the workings of the auto companies. But the dealer closings are striking a nerve in Congress. The federal government has been coming to the aid of the auto manufacturers, which lawmakers see as then turning around and abandoning the element of the industry closest to home for most of them.
 Representative Frank M. Kratovil, a Maryland Democrat who has introduced a measure that would restore the franchise agreements, portrayed the situation as a ''bailout for the big guys, but a force-out for the little guys.'' 
 In the Senate, lawmakers have not gone as far as the House in pushing a bill to block the move by the manufacturers. But members of the Senate commerce committee this week urged Chrysler to allow dealers a chance to appeal the closures and for both carmakers to give preference to existing, profitable operations when the automakers try to set up new franchises in areas where dealers were shut off. G.M. already has an appeals process for dealers scheduled for closure.
 ''We think -- in the interest of fairness -- that profitable dealers in this situation should have a right of first refusal for the new dealership when Chrysler returns to that particular market,'' read a letter signed by Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, the West Virginia Democrat who heads the committee, along with other members. A similar letter was sent to G.M.
 The car companies say that they need to scale back to be able to return to profitability and that cutting the number of dealers is crucial to that effort. 
 At a hearing last week of the commerce committee, Fritz Henderson, the chief executive of G.M., said that much of the growth in his company's dealer network occurred decades ago. Since then, he said, ''our market share has shrunk, leaving us with too many dealerships.'' 
 ''Everyone agrees -- even the dealers themselves -- that a restructuring of G.M.'s dealer network must take place,'' Mr. Henderson said.
 Some point to the millions of dollars in campaign contributions that politically active car dealers have given to Congressional candidates over the years in explaining the intense interest in going to bat for the dealers. But lawmakers say that they are only trying to protect local jobs at companies that have persevered in difficult times and that donations have nothing to do with it. 
 Representative Dan Maffei, a freshman Democrat from New York who helped write the measure to protect the dealers, said that in his case, local car dealers strongly supported the opposition. ''The vast majority are either nonpolitical or support the other party pretty strongly,'' Mr. Maffei said.
 Mr. Maffei said he hoped his legislation, which has already attracted about 70 co-sponsors, would spur new negotiations between the car companies and the dealers. 
 The Obama administration has so far shown no inclination to push back against the closures, noting that its efforts on behalf of the manufacturers have kept most dealers in business. And with Chrysler already cutting its ties with dealers, undoing those decisions might be difficult. But lawmakers say they intend to try.
 ''We are sure that if we do nothing, nothing will happen,'' said Representative Hoyer, the House majority leader and a Maryland Democrat, who is backing the effort to restore the franchise contracts.
 But it may be too late to help Mr. Shaub. Workers on Thursday were answering the phone at his business as Montrose Automotive rather than Montrose Dodge. ''I am not sure this is going to do any good,'' he said of the Congressional effort.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representatives Chris Van Hollen and Steny Hoyer, and two Maryland auto dealers, John J. Fitzgerald and Tammy Darvish, center left to right, talked before a Wednesday news conference.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LOBBYING (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BAILOUTS (67%); INSURANCE (63%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (76%); STENY HOYER (71%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (56%); TOM UDALL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009



328 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Helping Africa in the Fight Against Corruption

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Battle to Halt Graft Scourge in Africa Ebbs'' (front page, June 10): 
 While it is indeed discouraging that the fight against corruption is faltering in much of Africa, there is at least one bright spot: the Extractives Industry Transparency Initiative, begun in 2003 to promote responsible and honest management of oil and mineral revenues, which are too often a source of corruption. 
 Given the natural resource wealth of the continent, it is encouraging that 21 of the 29 EITI candidate countries are African.
 As my staff recently noted in a study, ''The Petroleum and Poverty Paradox,'' this is one way that the international community can support anticorruption reformers in Africa. I have urged the Obama administration to take a more active role in supporting extractive industry transparency. 
 Richard G. Lugar
 Ranking Member
 Senate Foreign Relations Committee
 Washington, June 10, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your article identifies the magnitude of the problem and the need to invigorate the anticorruption campaign. The article avoids falling into the misguided and naive arguments of the African economists Dambisa Moyo and James Shikwati, who claim that aid to African governments should be stopped, as it causes government corruption, and moving from aid to private flows will eliminate it. 
 But a conflict-prone and poverty-ridden continent obviously cannot survive without aid. At the same time, channeling aid outside the government (as in the case of Afghanistan) or increasing foreign direct investment is certainly not a recipe for eliminating corruption. There is overwhelming evidence to the contrary. 
 Amid the global financial crisis, lack of transparency and accountability in how aid is spent will not sit well with taxpayers in donor countries. Your reporter understands that this kind of pressure is the way forward to fight corruption. Graciana del Castillo
 New York, June 10, 2009
 The writer is associate director and research scholar, Center on Capitalism and Society of Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); WRITERS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



329 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Are

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Stephen Johns, known as ''Big John,'' was opening the door for a man he thought was just an elderly visitor to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington when he was shot dead on Wednesday afternoon. Mr. Johns was a security guard. The bullet that killed him was a reminder of the continuing menace of bigotry and violence that pervades this country -- and that we insist on underestimating.
 The authorities have identified an 88-year-old, hard-core white supremacist, James von Brunn, as the killer. Our knee-jerk tendency is to comfort ourselves by declaring that this guy is so freakish, so far out of the American mainstream, that he is not representative of much of anything. Sane people are not violently obsessed with blacks and Jews. The murder was a tragic aberration. After all, this is a country that only recently elected an African-American president. 
 So let's mop up the blood from the museum floor, and try to keep matters in perspective. 
 The problem when we think in terms of freaks and aberrations is that there are so many of them, which calls into question just how freakish or aberrational they really are. Was it an aberration when, according to authorities, Scott Roeder went into the lobby of a Lutheran church in Wichita two weeks ago and shot Dr. George Tiller to death? Hardly. The murder of Dr. Tiller, who was the nation's most prominent provider of so-called late-term abortions, was the fourth assassination of an abortion provider in the U.S. since 1993.
 Three Pittsburgh police officers were murdered in April by a man with a high-powered rifle who, according to authorities, was later linked to racist and anti-Semitic items posted on white supremacist Web sites. The man was identified as 22-year-old Richard Poplawski. According to the Anti-Defamation League, Poplawski, who wore a Nazi-style tattoo, believed Zionists were running the world and that President Obama was planning to crack down on gun ownership.
 The madness is not limited to white supremacists by any means. A 23-year-old U.S. Army private, William Andrew Long, who had just completed basic training, was shot to death on June 1 outside a recruiting center in a suburb of Little Rock. Investigators said the man accused of killing him, a Muslim convert named Abdulhakim Muhammad, asserted that the killing was justified because of the treatment of Muslims by the U.S. military.
 In 2002, a pair of snipers -- John Allen Muhammad and his teenage accomplice, Lee Boyd Malvo, both black -- spread terror as they roamed the Washington, D.C., area cold-bloodedly killing people. Their motives were a jumble, but a primary motive, according to Malvo, was to kill white people. Ten people were murdered before the pair was captured.
 The truth, of course, is that there is nothing aberrational about hatred and murderous violence in the U.S. They are two of the most prominent touchstones of the culture, monumentally tragic flaws that have permeated the nation's history from its earliest moments and that plague us still today.
 Americans kill each other at roughly the rate of 16,000 a year! From racial violence to family violence to gang warfare to street crime to mass murder -- the blood never stops flowing.
 The white supremacist crowd is up in arms, literally, in large part because the tide has turned against them. In addition to the presence of Mr. Obama in the White House, racism and anti-Semitism are no longer tolerated as overt factors in American life. And demographic trends show whites becoming a steadily smaller percentage of the overall population.
 But we should not pretend that things are better than they are. Racism is still a powerful force in the U.S., so powerful that the president, an African-American, is barely willing to mention race unless he absolutely has to.
 And murderous violence is as much of a problem as ever.
 The social fabric is extremely delicate and fragile. Forces bent on destruction, even if they are a tiny portion of the population, can tear it to pieces. With a black president, an extreme economic crisis and the fear generated by the continuing threat of international terrorism, the United States is exceptionally vulnerable to these virulently destructive forces.
 We need to be vigilant. When I first heard about the murder of Mr. Johns and the violent desecration of the Holocaust museum, I thought of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and how much we miss his moral leadership. He fought not just for civil rights, but against violence and injustice of all kinds, and he warned us of the debilitating effects of unnecessary warfare.
 ''He who passively accepts evil is as much involved in it as he who helps to perpetrate it,'' said Dr. King.
 The bullet that silenced him seemed to come out of nowhere, suddenly, aberrationally, like the bullet that destroyed Stephen Johns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); ARMIES (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (69%); ABORTION (64%); FIREARMS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



330 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Disease of Rich Extends Its Pain To Middle Class

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Lonnie Matthews, a retired building maintenance engineer in Burlington, N.C., has something in common with King Henry VIII, Sir Isaac Newton and Benjamin Franklin. He has gout. 
 Often called the ''disease of kings'' because of its association with the rich foods and copious alcohol once available only to aristocrats, gout is staging a middle-class comeback as American society grows older and heavier. 
 The rising tide of gout -- an extremely painful arthritis of the big toe and other joints -- is leading the pharmaceutical industry to rediscover what it had considered a disease of the past. Companies are now racing to improve upon decades-old generic drugs that do not work well for everyone. 
 Already this year the Food and Drug Administration has approved the first new gout drug in more than 40 years, a product called Uloric from Takeda Pharmaceutical. 
 Another new drug, Krystexxa, made by Savient Pharmaceuticals of East Brunswick, N.J., will be reviewed for possible approval by an F.D.A. advisory committee on Tuesday. 
 And several other companies are testing drugs in clinical trials. 
 ''It's kind of like the forgotten disease,'' said Barry D. Quart, chief executive of one of those companies, Ardea Biosciences of San Diego. 
 Ardea discovered accidentally that an AIDS drug it was developing might work against gout. Now the company has shifted its focus to gout, envisioning annual sales of $1 billion if its drug is successful. 
 That would mean a huge increase in spending on gout medicines, which had sales of only $53.4 million last year, according to IMS Health, a health care information company. Uloric, the drug from Takeda, sells a daily pill for at least $4.50 compared with 10 to 50 cents for the most commonly used generic, allopurinol. 
 It is estimated that two million to six million Americans have gout. Although the disease becomes more common as people age, some men develop gout in their 40s and 50s, or even younger. It is three to four times as common in men as in women, in part because estrogen is thought to protect premenopausal women from the illness. 
 Various studies suggest that the number of cases in this country has as much as doubled in the last three decades. 
 ''We have accumulated a lot of people with severe disease,'' said Dr. Robert A. Terkeltaub, section chief of rheumatology at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in San Diego and a consultant to some of the companies developing gout drugs. And the typical case these days, is ''not going to be someone who looks like Henry VIII,'' he said. ''Now it's going to be some 80-year-old lady with congestive heart failure.''
 One of the severe cases is Mr. Matthews, who had controlled his disease for many years with the generic allopurinol. But when he developed renal problems in 2006, he stopped taking allopurinol because it can be harmful to those with bad kidneys. After that, Mr. Matthews was bedridden or in a wheelchair and in such excruciating pain in many of his joints that he said he contemplated suicide. 
 ''It was like having a toothache so bad you can't stand it, all over your body,'' he said.
 Mr. Matthews, 76, says he found relief as a participant in a clinical trial of Savient's Krystexxa, the drug now up for review by the F.D.A. 
 Gout is caused by the buildup of a chemical called uric acid in the blood. Uric acid is formed by the breakdown of purines, which are components of DNA, RNA and some other important molecules in the body. 
 Some types of meat and fish, as well as beer, are particularly rich in purines and can raise the risk of gout. There is also evidence that sugary soft drinks raise the risk. 
 When uric acid levels get too high, the chemical can form needlelike crystals that accumulate in joints. 
 In the early stages of the disease, gout attacks, which can last several days and are excruciating, occur only rarely. But over time, the frequency increases and people can develop disfiguring and disabling lumps of the chalky white crystals, called tophi. Michael Clayton of Atlanta, who has severe gout, said he had to quit a job as general manager of a restaurant after customers complained about the tophi on his hands, which sometimes oozed liquid resembling Wite-Out.
 Many doctors and patients treat only gout attacks. They use either pain relievers like naproxen, steroids or colchicine -- a crocus plant derivative that has been used for centuries. 
 Many of the new drugs lower uric acid levels in the blood, meaning they can prevent gout attacks and keep the disease under control.
 A problem in getting doctors to prescribe chronic treatment for gout is that many patients are reluctant to admit they have the disease because of its association with gluttony. 
 ''It's part of society's view of gout that this is something self-inflicted,'' said Dr. N. Lawrence Edwards, professor of medicine at the University of Florida. 
 So the industry is trying to spread the word that genetics and other factors, not just diet, contribute to gout. Takeda and Savient bankroll the Gout and Uric Acid Education Society, which is led by Dr. Edwards and was formed in 2005 to raise awareness of the disease. 
 Another reason that gout is shedding its image as a disease of the past is preliminary evidence -- though still far from proof -- that high uric acid levels might also contribute to modern-day ills like hypertension, obesity, heart disease, kidney impairment and diabetes. 
 In one small study published last year, treatment with allopurinol reduced high blood pressure in adolescents. 
 Right now, it is estimated that 15 million to 20 million Americans have elevated uric acid levels, known as hyperuricemia. But they do not have gout symptoms and are therefore not treated. 
 If further studies prove that high uric acid levels contribute to other diseases, though, then ''hyperuricemia'' could be defined as a disease in its own right and millions of people might one day take drugs to lower uric acid levels, much as they now do to lower cholesterol. 
 Paul Hamelin, president of Savient, said, ''There's a huge amount of ground that nobody's ever plowed yet.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOUT (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (76%); ARTHRITIS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); US FDA APPROVALS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (71%); ANTIVIRALS (69%); MENOPAUSE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (56%); SAVIENT PHARMACEUTICALS INC (56%); ARDEA BIOSCIENCES INC (55%); IMS HEALTH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

TICKER: 4502 (TSE) (56%); SVNT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



331 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Pushes North Korea By Passing Sanctions

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Martin Fackler and Choe Sang-hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
Responding vigorously to a recent North Korean nuclear test, the Security Council voted unanimously Friday on an enhanced package of sanctions that, among other things, calls upon United Nations members to inspect cargo vessels and airplanes suspected of carrying military materiel in or out of the country. 
 The sanctions in Resolution 1874 were considered tougher than previous versions largely because China and Russia, the closest thing North Korea has to friends, agreed to a mixture of financial and trade restrictions designed to choke off military development. 
 Aside from a mandatory ban on arms exports, however, the steps are recommendations rather than requirements, so the potential impact depends on the determination of member states. Both China and Russia pushed to dilute some of the mandatory sanctions sought by the West, Japan and South Korea, and the hesitancy about going too far in punishing North Korea was reflected in their statements. 
 ''The resolution not only demonstrates the firm opposition of the international community to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea nuclear test, but also sends a positive signal,'' said Zhang Yesui, the Chinese ambassador, noting that it encourages all parties to solve the problem through political and diplomatic means. 
 But many analysts and former diplomats question whether the new measures will have enough bite to break a cycle -- North Korean threats and weapons tests, followed by American-led sanctions and short-lived deals -- and persuade the North to give up its nuclear weapons and missile programs once and for all.
 ''Sanctions won't bring North Korea to its knees,'' said Kim Keun-sik, a specialist on North Korea at Kyungnam University in Seoul. ''The North knows this very well, from having lived with economic sanctions of one sort or another for the past 60 years.''
 Although many of the measures in the resolution passed Friday have been included in previous ones at the United Nations, countries like China and Russia were reluctant to enforce them. That hesitation was based largely on concern about destabilizing North Korea and sending a flood of refugees across the border. Ultimately, a collapse in the North Korean government, and a possible reunification of the Koreas, could mean having a stronger American ally right on China's and Russia's border.
 Mr. Zhang emphasized that ''all parties should refrain from any words or deeds that may exacerbate the conflict.'' In particular, he said that no country should threaten the use of force when it came to inspecting cargoes, since that was not authorized by the resolution. 
 Despite their caution, Beijing and Moscow have been alarmed by the North Koreans' recent tests of a nuclear bomb and ballistic missiles, said diplomats involved in the negotiations. ''Their concern about it and indeed their anger about it is genuine,'' said one Western diplomat, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was discussing the policies of another member state. 
 In addition, there was a sense that a message had to be sent to other countries like Iran, which has its own nuclear program and has been ignoring Security Council sanctions designed to persuade it to negotiate. The Libyan ambassador told the Security Council that similar actions should be taken against Israel.
 Still, the Chinese left themselves a loophole: allowing the North Koreans to continue to import small arms which they buy mostly from China, a Western diplomat noted. 
 North Korea has generally taken a belligerent attitude to previous Security Council resolutions. There was some speculation that it might respond to the latest sanctions either by firing a missile that it has been preparing in recent days or by conducting another nuclear test. 
 ''There is reason to believe that they may respond in an irresponsible fashion to this,'' Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador, told reporters in Washington. ''We're going to focus on ensuring that implementation is fully achieved by us and others; that that bite is felt. And we're not going to get into a tit-for-tat reaction to every North Korean provocative act.''
 Some analysts said that no threat was large enough to stop a regime that saw nuclear weapons as the key to its survival and that had endured decades of economic sanctions and hardships, including starvation, rather than capitulate to outside pressure.
 ''These are people who didn't flinch even when two million of their own people died of hunger,'' said Lee Ji-sue, a North Korea specialist at Myongji University in Seoul.
 Most analysts agree that the most effective measures are those that concentrate on the lifestyle of North Korean leaders: financial sanctions aimed at ending all banking transactions related to North Korea's weapons trade, and halting most grants and loans. Legitimate trade and development financing was not sanctioned. 
 The nuclear test on May 25 followed a series of confrontational actions taken by the North, largely reversing every step it had taken to abandon its nuclear program in recent years. Resolution 1874 condemned that test and ordered a halt to all future tests and to building ballistic missiles. It also said the country should rejoin the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
 The compromise that was reached on weapons inspections requests that states inspect ships on the high seas. If the country where the ship is registered decided to reject an inspection in international waters, then the country would be required to direct the vessel to a nearby harbor for an inspection. If neither happened, the episode would be reported to the Security Council's sanctions committee. The resolution also requires states to stop all ''bunkering'' services, like refueling, for North Korean vessels. 
 The possible effect of inspections was hard to gauge. North Korea ships significant cargo on its own vessels, and would be likely to refuse any inspection, and the 34-article resolution does not authorize the use of force. 
 The United States will intensify efforts to collect intelligence on North Korean cargoes, Ms. Rice said, and share it as widely as possible to try to insure that inspections happen. 
 But critics and proponents alike agree that the linchpin in making sanctions work is China, North Korea's primary aid and trade partner. The two share an 850-mile border, and China's $2 billion annual trade with the North accounts for more than 40 percent of the North's entire external trade, according to South Korean government estimates. 
 ''The sanctions will have a bite, but I'm not sure if it will be painful enough to change North Korean policy,'' said Wi Sung-lac, the Foreign Ministry's top negotiator with North Korea. ''What we need on top of the sanctions is a united approach by the key players to enforce them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); REFUGEES (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



332 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Even as Industry Slumps, Prius Inspires Waiting List

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: TOYOTA CITY, Japan 

 BODY:
Throughout Toyota's global operations, managers are scrambling to cut costs in the wake of record losses. 
 But at Toyota's Tsutsumi plant, managers have the opposite problem: meeting demand for the third generation of the Prius, which has become an instant hit in Japan and is rolling into American showrooms now.
 The Prius plant has brought back overtime -- a rarity these days, given Japan's weak economy -- and recruited workers from Toyota factories across the country.
 The success of the new Prius, which like its predecessors is a gas-electric hybrid, is crucial if Toyota is to bounce back from a loss in 2008, its first since 1950, and an even deeper loss in the first quarter of 2009. 
 To be sure, no one at Toyota expects the profit earned on the Prius alone to revive the company's fortunes, but the buzz of the car's initial success is at least diverting attention from the auto giant's stumbles.
 In Japan, Toyota received 80,000 orders for the car before it went on sale, a fifth of the company's sales goal of 400,000 worldwide for the year, about half of that in the United States. 
 The company sold 110,000 Priuses in Japan in May -- and there is a waiting list of several months -- helped by government incentives that encouraged sales of fuel-efficient cars. (Toyota has sold more than 1.27 million Priuses worldwide since its debut in 1997.)
 The demand is rippling down the supply chain. One Japanese supplier, a Panasonic EV Energy factory that makes the batteries that power the Prius hatchback, is also working around the clock. 
 It had shut down its factories for 17 days because of slow sales in the first four months of 2009. But since the Prius went on sale in May, the battery maker has stepped up production and declared a moratorium on vacations.
 The popularity of the Prius is a bright spot in a global auto industry still reeling from the bankruptcies of General Motors and Chrysler. The rest of Japan's auto sector has slumped along with the global economy, prompting factory shutdowns and layoffs.
 Despite the Prius's strong start, Toyota, the world's largest automaker by sales, predicts more red ink this year. The company said in early May that it expected global sales to decline 14 percent in the year to March 2010, weighed down by sluggish sales in North America, its biggest market. But strong Prius sales could help Toyota surpass its initial, dismal global sales goal of 6.5 million units this year. As recently as 2007, Toyota's global sales topped 9 million vehicles.
 ''I feel very relieved and excited that they are selling well,'' said Akihiko Otsuka, chief engineer of the Prius, at a recent tour of Toyota's design laboratories and factories. 
 ''I expect sales to push up the entire car market,'' he said. ''I am not pessimistic about the future.''
 New government cash incentives for environmentally friendly cars, as well as more choices as automakers go head to head on fuel-efficient cars, are spurring demand, analysts say. Honda Motor started selling its Insight hybrid in March in Japan and the United States, while Mitsubishi Motors said last week that it would market the iMiev, a compact electric car, starting in July.
 Toyota executives hope the strong start by the Prius will be repeated in the United States, where some dealers have been accumulating waiting lists for more than a year. Plans for a new hybrid car factory in Blue Springs, Miss., originally scheduled to open in 2010, have been suspended since December as sales flagged. Though Toyota executives remain tight-lipped, analysts say that the automaker, with its Japanese production lines already so busy, could soon make a decision about the plant's future. 
 ''Sales are strong in Japan, but we will have to see how sales do overseas to decide whether we need to expand capacity,'' the Toyota executive vice president, Takeshi Uchiyamada, told reporters. He said investing in hybrid-car manufacturing was more risky than other types of factory investment because of higher overhead costs.
 ''It's a good thing Toyota has been able to produce a car that sells well in this difficult climate,'' said Tatsuo Yoshida, a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS Securities. 
 Prius sales in the United States, which soared last summer as gasoline prices topped $4 a gallon, fell sharply along with gas prices during fall and winter. But it is still the company's third-best-selling car, behind Camry and Corolla. Toyota devotes three manufacturing lines in Japan to the Prius -- two at Tsutsumi, and another at a subsidiary assembler. At full capacity, the two plants are able to make about 50,000 Prius cars a month, Toyota executives say, about 1.5 times the pace needed to meet its global sales target of 400,000 units.
 The surge has revived companies up and down the supply chain. With its plant running 24 hours a day, Panasonic EV Energy, a joint venture between Toyota and the electronics maker Panasonic, is planning another factory that will allow it to double its battery production by next year, to a million packs a year. 
 ''If a lot of hybrids are sold, it's possible we'll start producing overseas,'' the company chief executive, Yoshio Hayashi, said. ''Batteries are very heavy, so it's good to make them close to the cars.'' 
 The company, which sends about 92 percent of its batteries to Toyota, also serves General Motors and plans to supply Chrysler soon. The company produces mostly nickel-metal hydride batteries, though research on more advanced lithium-ion batteries is under way.
 At Aisin, the supplier that makes water pumps and Prius parts, a spokesman, Daisuke Kondo, stressed that the company was ''a long way off from a full recovery.'' Aisin expects to book 40 billion yen, or $407 million, in sales from hybrid-related parts in the year through March 2010, a 30 percent increase from the previous year. 
 With huge investments in its hybrid technology, Toyota says it is determined to keep gas-electric hybrid systems at the center of its green car lineup -- even as electric cars, plug-in hybrids or hydrogen-powered cars are developed.
 An electric car being developed by Toyota is to be introduced in 2015. For now, vehicles powered only by batteries are neither powerful nor cheap enough to be a viable alternative to a gas engine cars for most drivers, while hydrogen cars and plug-ins face cost and infrastructure challenges, another executive vice president at Toyota, Masatami Takimoto, said. Eventually, all three types -- hybrids, electric cars and plug-in hybrids -- will co-exist, he said, in part because energy policies in different countries will determine which cars thrive and where.
 Until then, the hybrid is the leading energy-saving technology, said the chief Prius engineer, Mr. Otsuka. And in hybrids, he said, Toyota is ''10 years ahead.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Akihiko Otsuka, chief engineer of the Prius, is optimistic about the hybrid: ''I expect sales to push up the entire car market.''
 Prius plants in Japan are humming 24 hours a day, which is reviving some Toyota suppliers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BATTERY MFG (78%); OVERTIME (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SALES PLAN (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



333 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Lender's Role For Fed Makes Some Uneasy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For most of its history, the Federal Reserve has been a high temple of monetary matters, guiding the economy by setting interest rates but remaining aloof from the messy details of day-to-day business. 
 But the financial crisis has drastically changed the role of the Fed, forcing officials to get their fingernails a bit dirty.
 Since March, when the Fed stepped in to fill the lending vacuum left by banks and Wall Street firms, officials have been dragged into murky battles over the creditworthiness of narrow-bore industries like motor homes, rental cars, snowmobiles, recreational boats and farm equipment -- far removed from the central bank's expertise.
 A growing number of economists worry that the Fed's new role poses risks to taxpayers and to the Fed itself. If the Fed cannot extract itself quickly, they warn, the crucial task of allocating credit will become more political and less subject to rigorous economic analysis. 
 That could also undermine the Fed's political independence and credibility as an institution that operates above the fray -- concerns Fed officials acknowledge. 
 Executives and lobbyists now flock to the Fed, providing elaborate presentations on why their niche industry should be eligible for Fed financing or easier lending terms.
 Hertz, the rental car company, enlisted Stuart E. Eizenstat, a top economic policy official under Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter, to plead with both Fed and Treasury officials to relax the terms on refinancing rental car fleets.
 Lawmakers from Indiana, home to dozens of recreational-vehicle manufacturers like Gulfstream and Jayco, have been pushing for similar help for the makers of campers, trailers and mobile homes. 
 And when recreational boat dealers and vacation time-share promoters complained that they had been shut out of the credit markets, Senator Mel Martinez, a Republican from Florida, weighed in on their behalf with the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who promised he would take up the matter with the Fed. 
 ''This is the most straightforward indicator of why we don't want the government doing this, except in an emergency,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, an economist at the Brookings Institution who supports the new lending program but worries about its long-term implications. ''There is no clear line about who should be included and who shouldn't be included. It's an inherently political decision,'' he added. 
 Big money is at stake. At issue is a joint venture of the Fed and the Treasury aimed at making more credit available. The program, known as the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, has bought about $27 billion in securities backed by credit card debt, car loans and student loans. In buying the securities, the Fed is providing the money that ultimately reaches businesses or consumers trying to borrow. 
 Despite a slow start, the program could soon expand broadly. Next week, the Fed will add commercial real estate mortgages -- a vast market -- to the list of loans it will buy. Eventually, officials say, the TALF program could provide as much as $1 trillion in financing.
 Fed officials say they, too, are uncomfortable with their new role and hope to end it as soon as credit markets return to normal. When R.V. manufacturers recently sought a meeting, senior Fed staff members refused to see them in person and instead heard their pleas in a conference call.
 The central bank is increasingly having to make politically sensitive choices. For example, it is weighing whether loans to people who buy speedboats and snowmobiles are as worthy of help as those to people who buy cars. And it is being besieged by arguments from R.V. manufacturers and strip-mall developers that they play a crucial role in the economy and also deserve help. 
 Many of the decisions could have political repercussions. On Feb. 9, President Obama traveled to Elkhart, Ind., a Republican stronghold that Democrats hope to convert to their column. Elkhart is also home to much of the R.V. industry, which has been battered by the recession.
 ''When we talk about layoffs at companies like Monaco Coach and Keystone RV and Pilgrim International, we're not just talking numbers,'' Mr. Obama said, referring to three prominent R.V. companies. ''We're talking about people who've lost their livelihood and don't know what will take its place.''
 At the time, Fed and Treasury officials suggested that they would finance only car loans, credit card loans, student loans and Small Business Administration-guaranteed loans. 
 But the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association and Indiana lawmakers -- among them, Representative Joseph Donnelly, a Democrat, and Representative Marc Souder, a Republican -- were already lobbying the Fed to include loans for recreational vehicles on its list of eligible collateral that the Fed would accept.
 They were not alone. Rental car companies were pushing the Fed to finance their fleets. Hertz, which is owned by two private equity firms -- the Carlyle Group and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice -- hired Mr. Eizenstat to make its case.
 In trying to persuade the Fed to relax its loan terms, Mr. Eizenstat led delegations of Hertz officials to both the Treasury and the Fed. They reached out to Ron Bloom, the co-chairman of the Treasury Department's auto task force, as well as to top aides to Mr. Geithner. They also made detailed financial presentations to Fed officials in Washington and New York. 
 While the Fed so far has denied Hertz's requests to relax loan terms, some of the lobbying appears to have worked. In March, the Fed announced that it would purchase loans used to buy light trucks and recreational vehicles. It also said that it would finance equipment leasing deals, rental car fleets and ''floor plan'' loans, which car and R.V. dealers use to finance showroom vehicles.
 On May 17, the Fed refined its rules even more, saying that ''recreational vehicles'' included not just motor homes and campers but also boats, motorcycles and snowmobiles.
 Fed officials said they had always intended to include those vehicles because they had long been financed through asset-backed securities of the type the loan facility was created to preserve. And the series of expansions, they said, did not reflect a capitulation to industry pleas. Rather, they simply announced additional details as policy decisions were reached.
 Almost inevitably, industry groups are grumbling that the Fed's terms favor some, like consumer car loans and credit card debt.
 Mathew Dunn, a lobbyist for the National Marine Manufacturers Association, said collateral requirements for loans to recreational boat dealers are higher than those for securities backed by car loans.
 That may soon change. In late May, the Small Business Administration said that it would open one of its main lending programs to R.V. dealers. Because the Fed has already agreed to finance S.B.A. loans, it may not be long before it is financing boats, snowmobiles, motorcycles and campers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Federal officials have been dragged into murky fights over the creditworthiness of many industries, including recreational boating. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (PG. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (75%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); RESORTS (71%); BOAT DEALERS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (52%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%); JIMMY CARTER (52%); MEL MARTINEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



334 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumer Confidence Hits a 9-Month High

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Consumer confidence rose to a nine-month high in June but failed again to surpass its level of September 2008, when the failure of Lehman Brothers sent the world economy into a tailspin, a survey showed on Friday. 
 The Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers said its preliminary index of confidence for June rose to 69.0 from May's 68.7. That was slightly below economists' expectations of 69.5, according to a Reuters poll.
 The report's gauges of inflation expectations rose to their highest in months, creating concern for the Federal Reserve, which has pumped money into the financial system to spur a recovery.
 For the third month, the overall consumer sentiment reading was at its highest since the Lehman debacle last September, which caused severe strains in financial markets, while not breaking through that month's level of 70.3.
 Indeed, the economic damage done by that episode is still being felt and may linger for a long time, consumers worry, overshadowing perceptions of economic recovery.
 ''Job and income uncertainty, however, remained high and constitute a significant barrier for completing planned purchases,'' the Surveys of Consumers said in its report. ''The economic recovery was thought to be weaker than originally anticipated, leading consumers to expect a longer period of time before the recovery gets under way.''
 Reflecting continuing worries, consumers' assessment of the 12-month economic outlook fell, with that gauge declining to 61 in June from 75 in May.
 Their one-year inflation expectations rose to 3.1 percent in June -- the highest since October 2008 -- from May's 2.8 percent.
 The five-year inflation outlook rose to 3.1 percent in June, from May's 2.9 percent. That was the highest in the long-term inflation expectations since February this year. In an earlier report, import prices in the United States rose 1.3 percent in May, the Labor Department said on Friday, but the gain was led by petroleum prices and underlying import price pressures were more muted.
 Analysts had forecast import prices would rise 1.3 percent after a revised 1.1 percent rise in April, previously reported as a 1.6 percent increase. May's gain was the largest since a 1.4 percent advance in July 2008.
 Recent declines in the dollar might press import prices higher and contribute to inflation, but year-over-year, import prices declined by 17.6 percent, indicating little threat of this at the moment.
 Nonpetroleum import prices rose 0.2 percent in May, the first increase since July 2008, and were down a record 5.8 percent over the year.
 Export prices rose 0.6 percent in May compared with forecasts for a 0.4 percent gain. They rose 0.4 percent in April and are down 6.5 percent over the year.
 Imported petroleum prices were up 8.3 percent in May, the fourth consecutive gain after bottoming in January, but are 51.4 percent lower over the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); EXPORT PRICES (62%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); MARKETING SURVEYS (59%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



335 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Avoiding Firms That Prey On Troubled Homeowners

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
The economic crisis has spawned several unscrupulous companies that prey on homeowners who are having trouble paying their mortgages.
 The companies promise to save borrowers' homes from foreclosure in exchange for a significant upfront fee, often thousands of dollars, but consumers often end up worse off than when they started.
 This week, the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, said he planned to sue one company, Amerimod, of Uniondale, N.Y., and its owner. He also announced plans to investigate 14 other loan modification companies that his office received about 50 complaints about. The Federal Trade Commission has brought about 11 cases against similar companies in the last year and sent warning letters to 71 more for marketing potentially deceptive relief programs. 
 Consumer agencies and nonprofit counselors have also noticed a significant increase in the number of consumers who are victimized by companies making false promises.
 Derrick Briscoe, 52, an airline attendant, is one of them. After Mr. Briscoe had trouble keeping up with mortgage payments, a friend told him about the government's program for distressed homeowners. To learn more, he did a Google search for ''Help for Homeowners,'' the name of the Obama administration's program. He came across several other Web sites offering help, and ultimately called IMC Financial.
 ''They convinced me they could help save my home and intervene on my behalf as a third party with my mortgage company,'' said Mr. Briscoe, who bought his Tucson home in 2005. The company charged him $2,000 and told him he should stop paying the mortgage for three months. ''This is back in January of this year when I contacted the company,'' he said. ''And here it is in June, and my home is in foreclosure.'' 
 After several calls to the company yielded nothing but frustration, Mr. Briscoe is trying to get his money back. The company promised to return the money minus a $500 administrative fee if he wasn't satisfied with the results. He faxed the request to the company. 
 An IMC Financial representative said he was ''not at liberty to discuss a client's case.''
 Unfortunately, Mr. Briscoe's predicament is typical. Many such companies offer money-back guarantees but often do not pay them. Others use names that sound similar to legitimate programs.
 ''There is simply no reason to pay for this service,'' said Michelle Jones, senior vice president of counseling for the Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Atlanta. ''When the consumer does talk to their mortgage company, they learn the company has never heard of the company, there is no documentation and there is nothing in the works for that homeowner. And when they try to follow up, they evaporate into thin air.''
 Be wary of the many companies that advertise on the Web, who offer guarantees and who tell you to send them your mortgage payments. And don't sign anything without reading the small print -- some homeowners have unwittingly signed away their deeds to fraudsters who ultimately evict them.
 You can learn more about the Obama loan modification program at MakingHomeAffordable.gov. But if you're still having trouble getting results (and many consumers have) contact a housing counselor that has been approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. You can also receive advice through the National Foundation for Credit Counseling.
 None of these organizations charge fees -- if you come across a company that does, you know you are in the wrong place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING SERVICE OF GREATER DALLAS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



336 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Will Sanctions Ever Work on North Korea?

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korean threats and weapons tests followed by American-led sanctions and short-lived deals have become an all-too-familiar pattern in the world's response to North Korea's nuclear program. With the Security Council having approved a new round of sanctions, the question is whether there are real pressure points that even the hermetic North Korean government will respond to or is this all just window dressing?
 In the newest round of sanctions after North Korea's second nuclear test on May 25, the United States and allies like Japan and South Korea have brought back measures, such as freezing the North's overseas bank accounts, that seemed most painful to the government in the past. 
 Diplomats call the new sanctions, which also include high-seas searches of North Korean ships for unconventional weapons, potentially some of the most potent yet aimed at North Korea. But Russia and China resisted calls to make them mandatory, so it remains unclear how great an impact they will have. 
 But mandatory or not, many analysts and former diplomats questioned whether any sanctions regime would ever have enough bite to break the cycle.
 ''Sanctions won't bring North Korea to its knees,'' said Kim Keun-sik, a specialist on North Korea at Kyungnam University in Seoul. ''The North knows this very well, from having lived with economic sanctions of one sort or another for the past 60 years.''
 Most analysts agree that the most effective measures are those that target the lifestyle of North Korean leaders: financial sanctions aimed at ending all banking transactions related to North Korea's weapons trade, and halting most grants and loans. This would effectively freeze many of the North's overseas bank accounts, cutting off the funds that North Korean leader Kim Jong-il has used to secure the cognac, Swiss watches and other luxury items needed to buy the loyalty of his country's elites.
 The United States has also accused the North of using such offshore accounts to launder counterfeited dollars and for narcotics trafficking, criminal activities that the Treasury Department estimates earn the government as much as $700 million annually in hard currency.
 A similar tactic was tried in 2005, when $25 million in North Korean accounts was frozen at Banco Delta Asia, an obscure institution in the Chinese territory of Macao. To the surprise of many at the time, the measure brought howls of protest from North Korea. 
 ''The sanctions against B.D.A. hit the regime where it hurts,'' said Lee Sang-hyun, a North Korea specialist at the Sejong Institute, a private research institute, using the bank's abbreviation.
 However, some analysts and former officials here blame the financial sanctions for having the opposite effect, provoking the North and hardening its resolve. Some link the B.D.A. sanctions to the North's first nuclear test, which came just a year later, in October 2006.
 ''The sanctions against B.D.A. hurt, but in the end did they work? No, the North responded by just spitting in America's face with the nuclear test,'' said Jeong Se-hyun, who as unification minister was one of the South's top negotiators with North Korea during the administrations of former presidents Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun, who were often at odds with Washington over pressure on North Korea. 
 This time, in addition to financial sanctions, the proposed Security Council resolution calls for a tighter arms embargo, possible interdiction of North Korean vessels. But most analysts say that none of the threats are large enough to stop a government that sees nuclear weapons as the key to its survival, and that has endured decades of economic sanctions and hardships, including even starvation, rather than capitulate to outside pressure.
 ''These are people who didn't flinch even when 2 million of their own people died of hunger,'' said Lee Ji-sue, a North Korea specialist at Myongji University. 
 And that is assuming that the sanctions are fully enforced. While many of these same measures have been included in previous United Nations resolutions, nations like China and Russia were reluctant to enforce them to avoid antagonizing the North. 
 Critics and proponents alike agree that the linchpin in making any sanctions work is China, North Korea's primary aid and trade partner. China shares an 850-mile border with North Korea, and its $2 billion annual trade with the North accounts for over 40 percent of North Korea's entire external trade, according to South Korean government estimates. North Korea's trade with China expanded by 23 percent just last year, the South Korean government said.
 Both United States and South Korean officials fear that although Beijing was disappointed by the North's continued tests, it remains reluctant to push too hard. They say China fears causing a collapse of the North Korean government that could flood it with refugees and create a newly unified, pro-American Korea on its border. 
 It remains to be seen whether Beijing or even Washington would have the stomach to enforce some of the proposed sanctions, such as interdicting North Korean ships. North Korea has proclaimed that it would regard any such search as an act of war.
 ''The sanctions will have a bite, but I'm not sure if it will be painful enough to change North Korean policy,'' said Wi Sung-lac, the Foreign Ministry's top negotiator with North Korea. ''What we need on top of the sanctions is a united approach by the key players to enforce them.''
 In the end, what is needed to convince the North to give up its nuclear weapons, say many analysts and diplomats, is a ''grand bargain'' of sweeping incentives that could include large-scale economic aid, normalization of relations with the United States and pledges that Washington will not attack or topple the North Korean government.
 ''We need big enough carrots to go along with a stronger stick,'' said Yun Duk-min, a North Korea specialist at the Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security, a government research institute. ''That is the only hope for breaking out of this cycle.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); CURRENCIES (68%); FINE WATCHES (62%); LUXURY GOODS (62%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); MACAO (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



337 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Building a Portfolio That Will Stay Afloat When Inflation Returns

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
As the American government continues to pump money into the economy, many investors have started to worry that inflation is inevitable. 
 Most economists don't expect inflation to arrive anytime soon. But nobody really knows when it will appear or how corrosive its effects will be. In the meantime, financial planners are suggesting that investors make sure that their portfolios are well positioned to withstand any impact on their hard-earned money -- before it's too late.
 ''There are a lot of people who are worried about rising deficits and the prospect of a falling dollar, and all of these things will put upward pressure on inflation,'' said Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Investments. ''We don't see inflation as a problem this year and even perhaps for 2010, but it is a factor that investors should try and incorporate in their portfolios as they go forward.'' 
 That doesn't mean making a radical overhaul to your investment portfolio, unless, of course, it wasn't well diversified to begin with -- or if all of your money is sitting in cash or low-yielding Treasuries with no long-term plan. (If that's the case, you may want to seek professional advice.) What many financial planners are recommending, however, is incorporating some classic inflation hedges -- some inflation-protected securities, maybe, or some commodities, while making sure your fixed-income investments have relatively short maturities.
 For the short term, investment experts agree, deflation is more probable, with unemployment still climbing and the economy still mired in a recession. There's talk of green shoots, but most everyone agrees that an earnest recovery is a long way off.
 Still, inflation can quietly sneak up on you, and at that point it will be more expensive -- or less effective -- to get the inflation protection you need. It's especially rough on people who live on fixed incomes, notably retirees, many of whom have already suffered painful losses in their portfolios.
 ''The problem is if you wait until we are actually in it,'' said Chuck Roberson, a financial planner with Modera Wealth Management in Old Tappan, N.J., ''it will be too late or the strategies won't work as well.''
 What follows are some of the most common strategies to inflation-proof your portfolio:
 REVIEW YOUR MIX The inherent characteristics of a well-diversified portfolio -- including a healthy dose of stocks -- will help withstand inflation. If, for instance, your investments are split between domestic and foreign markets, which they should be, you already have a built-in hedge against the dollar and the American economy. Some financial professionals have added a diversified basket of foreign bonds to their fixed-income allocations. Others are hopeful about a recovery in Asia, so they are adding more money to Asian-based funds (minus Japan), while some planners have slightly increased their ratio of international to domestic stock funds. 
 SHORTEN UP Several financial planners recommend shorter-term fixed-income investments, or at the least making sure your bond investments aren't heavily tilted toward long maturities, because they are most affected by rising interest rates. (Newer bonds issued at the higher, prevailing rates make existing issues less valuable. So when interest rates rise, bond prices tend to fall. Bond funds and investors who hold securities with shorter maturities have the opportunity to reinvest at higher rates more quickly.)
 ''Fixed income is a disaster in inflationary times,'' said Steve Podnos, a financial planner in Merritt Island, Fla., who has been keeping his clients' fixed-income money in short-term, high-quality bonds funds like the Vanguard Short-Term Bond Index Fund. ''You are giving up a couple of percentage points of income per year but inflation can do harm in terms of declining asset values.''
 For clients with at least $250,000 to invest in bonds, Gordon Bernhardt, a financial planner in McLean, Va., builds a bond ladder, spreading money evenly across a portfolio of bonds that mature at regular, but staggered, intervals. This enables you to replace maturing bonds with bonds that offer higher yields. 
 TIPS Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, guard against inflation because the principal increases with inflation (but decreases with deflation), in tandem with the Consumer Price Index. Investors can either buy the securities directly, or purchase a TIPS mutual fund or exchange-traded fund. If you hold TIPS directly, you will receive the adjusted principal, or your original investment, whichever is greater, when the TIPS mature. Interest payments also rise or fall with the movement of prices. 
 While the allocation to TIPS will vary on a person's circumstances and goals, Scott Dauenhauer of Meridian Wealth Management has about 20 percent of his clients' fixed-income allocation in TIPS. 
 It is best to keep TIPS and TIPS funds in tax-deferred accounts like an I.R.A. because you'll be taxed on the amount your principal increases -- even though you don't receive it until the TIPS matures. With mutual funds, those adjustments are distributed (and taxable) to investors each year as well.
 COMMODITIES Commodity investments tend to perform well when there's inflation because rising prices usually mean a stronger economy at home (or elsewhere in the world). That, in turn, leads to increasing demand for raw materials to meet rising production and consumer needs. Don't be tempted to make individual bets on oil or gold, planners say. Instead, buy a diversified basket of commodities that tracks a major index like the Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index from a low-cost fund or exchange-traded fund provider. 
 Investors have to determine what allocations are best for them, but planners said they would invest anywhere from 3 to 10 percent of a portfolio in commodities. Given commodities' volatility, investors need to rebalance their portfolio periodically to make sure their position doesn't balloon. These investments are also best kept in a tax-deferred account. 
 REAL ESTATE Real estate can also be a good way to hedge against inflation. Real estate investment trusts, which invest and own commercial and residential properties, are an easy way to gain access. Not surprisingly, REITs, which are required to distribute most of their income (generally from rent rolls) to shareholders, have been battered in the downturn. But they have shown signs of hitting bottom, and Mr. Gayle said it might be a good time to start building a position. 
 ''But while it is an inflation hedge, it is a leveraged inflation hedge,'' Mr. Gayle said. ''Debt and access to debt influence the real estate market very significantly,'' he added, ''so that should be further down the list'' of inflation protectors. 
 Investors with a higher net worth may consider foreclosures, as long as they have done their homework. ''If inflation does come back, hard assets like real estate will start to move,'' said Marc Schindler of Pivot Point Advisors. But you need to have a five- to 10-year time horizon and you don't want to invest more than 25 percent of your net worth in real estate, he added. Still, he said, ''if you are able to buy at a huge discount to market through foreclosure or other means, it will be a wise investment.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); DEFLATION (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



338 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Lower Manhattan Business Aid May Expand

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Long before the recession hit or any of the biggest banks on Wall Street imploded, merchants in Lower Manhattan were complaining that the post-9/11 construction in their neighborhoods was threatening their livelihoods.
 Now, as the recession wears on, dragging down small businesses at a quickening pace, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation is reconsidering who is a victim of the rebuilding of the financial district. The development corporation decided on Thursday to broaden its definition of affected businesses that could be eligible for as much as $4 million in compensation over the next two years.
 The change, which requires approval of the city's Economic Development Corporation, would more than triple the number of blocks in the mazy financial district affected by publicly financed construction, making hundreds of additional businesses eligible for aid. The proposal came in response to complaints from business owners and members of Community Board 1, who wondered why the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation had given out so little of the $5 million fund it created in early 2008. 
 About halfway through the program's life, the development corporation has handed out less than $1 million, said a spokesman, Michael Murphy. The organization's goal now, he said, is ''to get this money out as quickly as possible'' to ''the maximum number of businesses.''
 Grants are available to street-level businesses that have no more than 50 employees and that are within a block of a construction or improvement project that closed a street or sidewalk. The businesses must be able to prove that they have suffered from the disruption. Those that do can receive as much as $5 per square foot of their premises for every month they have been affected.
 ''A lot of these merchants are saying they lost 50 percent of their business -- and that was even before the recession,'' said Edward D. Sheffe III, the chairman of the community board's financial district committee. ''They are operating at the epicenter of the nation's largest urban-renewal project in history.''
 Some of them have been frustrated by the omission of their blocks from the development corporation's list of those affected by construction work. Until now, that list has included about 60 blocks. But Mr. Sheffe said that more than 200 blocks have suffered from disruptions of vehicle and pedestrian traffic caused by major public works like the construction of the Fulton Street Transit Center and smaller projects to repair the district's basic infrastructure.
 The program's expansion could produce a lifeline for merchants like Mouhamad Shami, who runs Alfanoose, a Middle Eastern restaurant on a narrow arc of Maiden Lane between Broadway and Nassau Street. Mr. Shami has been struggling to keep his restaurant open as his Wall Street clientele shrinks and cuts spending. In recent weeks, he said, orders from the big financial companies in the district's office towers have been down by about half from a year ago.
 ''Whatever they give us, it will be great,'' Mr. Shami said of the proposed expansion of the assistance program. ''Every bit helps.'' 
 But it would come too late to help Klatch, a cafe that opened across the street from Alfanoose in March 2003, on a day when George E. Pataki, who was governor at the time, and several officials of the development corporation paid a surprise visit. Klatch's owner, Pam Chmiel, was evicted one morning this past April, after she fell behind on the cafe's rent.
 ''The marshals showed up at my door and said, 'We're closing you down,' '' Ms. Chmiel recounted. ''It was so humiliating and shocking.''
 She said that just before Klatch was shuttered, she appealed to the development corporation, whose board meetings she had catered. But she was told that the construction on her block had ended too soon for her to qualify for any assistance, she said.
 The aid that Klatch might have been eligible for could have made the difference between success and failure, Ms. Chmiel said.
 ''It would have gone straight to my landlord to appease him and maybe to inspire him to lower my rent, as I was asking,'' she said. ''It could have definitely helped restore the business.''
 A week after Klatch closed, a neighboring business, Mardi Gras Pizza, also shut down.
 ''While still not fully recovered from the devastating economic effects of 9/11, Lower Manhattan's business community is now suffering a second major crisis due to the hardships of the current recession,'' said Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat who is on the development corporation's advisory council. ''This small-business assistance is immensely important for the survival of these businesses -- and for economic development -- in my district.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Without aid, Klatch cafe, center, closed this year. Mouhamad Shami, who runs a restaurant across the street from Klatch, said, ''Every bit helps.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROVALS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



339 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Growth Market, Chip Maker Eyes Solar Cells

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: HSINCHU, Taiwan 

 BODY:
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, or TSMC, has seen the light and now wants to make some. 
 The world's largest for-hire chip maker could soon start manufacturing solar cells and LED lights. The company's entry into these nascent industries will catch the attention of existing makers, which could find themselves battling one of the most formidable manufacturers on the planet. Taiwan Semiconductor could drive down prices, as it did for computer chips. But the lower prices could also stimulate demand for what are now expensive technologies.
 For the company, the move far afield from semiconductors signals a sweeping change and a need to find growth in less-mature markets. ''Their foundation that has been so successful over the last couple of decades is starting to slow,'' said Michael McConnell, an equities analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. ''It's natural for them to want to branch out.'' 
 Earlier this week, the company declared its new intentions with a bold gesture. It stripped Rick Tsai of his chief executive title and placed him in charge of a new unit created to look into fresh business opportunities. Morris Chang, the company's 78-year-old chairman and founder, has returned as chief executive. 
 In an interview ahead of the management shuffle at Taiwan Semiconductor's headquarters in Hsinchu, Mr. Tsai highlighted solar cells and LEDs as the most likely markets it would enter. 
 ''I would expect we will make some decision before the end of the year,'' Mr. Tsai said. ''We have people who are working pretty hard on those areas.'' 
 The manufacturer, with revenue of slightly more than $10 billion last year, hopes to make at least $2 billion in revenue a year from its new businesses by 2018. The company produces more chips than any other ''foundry,'' or contract chip manufacturer. It takes chip designs from companies like Nvidia and Qualcomm, both based in the United States, and turns them into the finished products that end up in personal computers and cellphones. This arrangement places the burden of building chip plants that cost $3 billion or more on Taiwan Semiconductor, while affording customers the chance to concentrate on engineering. 
 The foundry model has grown in popularity as fewer and fewer companies have been able to stomach the costs of building cutting-edge plants that can churn out chips using their latest technologies. Only a couple of giants remain, like Intel and Samsung, which are willing to design and produce their own processors for personal computers and cellphones. 
 TSMC's business model puts it under constant pressure to keep its factories humming at full capacity. With demand for computing products slowing down during the global economic downturn, its business has declined at unprecedented rates. Net income in its first quarter dropped 94.5 percent compared with the year-ago quarter as revenue dropped 54.8 percent. ''We have never seen this phenomenon before,'' Mr. Tsai said. ''It is more severe than any of the recessions or downturns or corrections before.''
 So chip makers are looking for other things to do. Intel has moved to counter slowing PC sales by building chips that can power cellphones and provide the brains in products like cars, televisions and set-top boxes. Its former executive Andrew S. Grove has also called on Intel to begin making batteries, suggesting that its manufacturing expertise could improve the technology. So far, Intel has declined. 
 Built to look like a dragon, Taiwan Semiconductor's sprawling main office located in one of Taiwan's many science parks stands as a testament to the country's rise as a technology powerhouse. The company has managed to outpace all of its rivals by building the most advanced chip plants, Mr. McConnell said. 
 ''Their main rivals have slipped,'' he said. ''TSMC will never publicly admit this, but they will be able to force their hand on the pricing side, and this will give them better leverage with their operating model.''
 With close to $7 billion in cash, the company can finance solar and LED projects that would tap into some of the manufacturing skills learned in the chip business. While there is considerable interest in green technologies, governments around the world have had to subsidize the purchase of solar cells and LED lights to stimulate demand. The costs of such devices are still not low enough to justify substituting them for existing technologies. 
 Pointedly, Mr. Tsai said its intentions in either area would be to create profitable businesses that could operate without government subsidies. 
 ''You have to get the costs down really fast,'' he said. ''You don't want to count on governments all the time for the viability of the business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taiwan Semiconductor wants to expand from computer chips.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TSMC VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B1)
Rick Tsai, no longer the chief, is exploring new markets for Taiwan Semiconductor.
 Morris Chang, founder and chairman of the company, is stepping in as chief executive.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAURICE TSAI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (91%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (90%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (61%)

COMPANY: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (92%); INTEL CORP (58%); NVIDIA CORP (57%); QUALCOMM INC (52%)

TICKER: TSM (NYSE) (92%); TSFA (FRA) (92%); 2330 (TAIEX) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



340 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Cravath, a Top Law Firm, to Pay New Hires to Delay Start

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Cravath, Swaine & Moore, the law firm, is offering $80,000 to incoming lawyers to defer their starting dates for a year.
 Cravath is also requiring current summer associates who are offered full-time jobs to accept $65,000 to wait a year instead of starting in October 2010. The delayed start date for lawyers scheduled to begin work this year at the New York-based firm is optional. 
 The announcement was made in a memo sent to associates.
 ''While the firm's level of work is at or near its level before the continuing economic decline, there are many more associates at the firm today than our plans anticipated,'' Cravath said in the memo. ''The poor economy and the disruption at many financial institutions have reduced the rate at which our associates have left.''
 The most profitable American law firms have experienced a drop in revenue as the credit crisis cut spending by financial services companies, slowing work on mergers, acquisitions and financings. The value of announced mergers and acquisitions totaled $691 billion this year, down 55 percent from the same period in 2008.
 Cravath, one of the pacesetters for the top tier of law firms in the United States and one of the few that have not dismissed lawyers, is following the lead of Latham & Watkins and Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe in asking its new lawyers to take paid time off in exchange for a salary cut.
 Latham, based in New York, and Orrick, based in San Francisco, offered their incoming lawyers $75,000 in March to delay their start for a year. 
 Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, both based in New York, have offered current associates a year off in a public-interest job for a reduced salary.
 Cravath will pay the deferred lawyers as much as $1,000 a month to cover student loans and the cost of medical and dental insurance, according to the memo. Up to 50 percent of this year's incoming lawyers can defer, it said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); MERGERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (67%); DENTAL INSURANCE (50%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (98%); ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (91%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (91%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (91%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (98%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



341 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise, Erasing Dow's Loss for '09

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced, erasing the Dow Jones industrial average's 2009 loss, as Bank of America rallied on higher profit estimates and investors bought shares of utilities and phone companies.
 Bank of America had the biggest gain in the Dow average for the second day in a row, adding 5.9 percent, to $13.73. Stifel Nicolaus & Company raised its 2010 and 2011 profit forecasts on the bank. 
 Dynegy and FirstEnergy led electricity companies to the largest gains in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, and AT&T rallied as investors bought companies less reliant on economic growth. Fewer than 860 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, the lowest volume this year, after a computer error halted trading in 242 companies. 
 The S.& P. 500 added 0.1 percent to a seven-month high of 946.21, jumping 0.5 percent in the final 13 minutes of trading. The Dow average climbed 28.34 points, or 0.3 percent, to 8,799.26. The markets recovered after starting the day lower after the Reuters/University of Michigan said on Friday morning that its sentiment gauge rose to 69 in June, missing the 69.5 average forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
 ''Today was a countertrend day because defensives did better,'' said Kevin Shacknofsky, a money manager at Alpine Mutual Funds. ''The brokers are doing really well this quarter. They're benefiting from good conditions in the capital markets.''
 Stocks have now advanced four consecutive weeks. The Dow, which had dropped 25 percent for the year as of March 9, is now back in positive territory for 2009. The Dow became the last major American stock gauge to give investors a profit for the year. Speculation that $12.8 trillion in government spending would revive growth helped push the Dow above the break-even mark. NYSE Euronext halted trading in 242 companies for more than 40 minutes because of a computer malfunction. Trading resumed about 12:10 p.m. in New York after the Big Board lost the connection to one of its order-matching engines, said Ray Pellecchia, an NYSE spokesman.
 The problem affected eight companies in the Dow Jones industrial average, including General Electric and Exxon Mobil, and more than 50 stocks in the S.& P. 500, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of those companies continued to trade on other markets, including the NYSE Arca electronic exchange.
 Utilities in the S.& P. 500 added 1.4 percent as a group, the most among 10 industries. Phone companies in the index climbed 0.9 percent. Qwest Communications International rallied 4.6 percent, to $4.32.
 The S.& P. 500 has rebounded 40 percent from its 12-year low in March. The index trades at 14.9 times its companies' earnings from continuing operations during the last year, near the seven- month high of 15.2 reached in May and below the 19.9 average over the last decade.
 Technology shares in the S.& P. 500 lost 0.2 percent. National Semiconductor, which supplies the top five cellphone manufacturers, fell 6.1 percent, to $13.59.
 ''I don't think anyone in this industry is positive enough to say that we've recovered,'' said Brian L. Halla, National Semiconductor's chief executive.
 Advanced Micro Devices, the second-largest maker of processors for personal computers after Intel, fell 4.9 percent, to $4.47.
 Rambus, a designer of memory chips, surged 15 percent, to $17.39, after announcing a tentative settlement of a European Union antitrust inquiry that includes cutting its patent royalty rates for some products.
 The S.& P. 500 has not posted a daily increase or fall of 1 percent or more since June 4, the longest stretch in 14 months. Since Sept. 15, the date of Lehman Brothers Holdings' bankruptcy filing, 131 out of the 188 trading days have had moves of that size.
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 16/32, to 94 17/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.79 percent, from 3.85 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO INC (72%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (58%); DYNEGY INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); NYSE ARCA INC (51%); CENTURYLINK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); FE (NYSE) (58%); DYN (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); CTL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



342 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: F.D.I.C. Is Watching as a Bank Sets Rates

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
This is the story of how the federal government essentially told a bank that it was paying too much money in interest to its customers and ordered it to lower the rates. It's also about why that may not be such a bad thing, if only its logic applied equally to all banks. 
 The spat itself might be a mere source of amusement were it not that billions of dollars of taxpayer bailout money are at work. Also, it cuts right to the heart of the problems we run into when the federal government essentially controls major financial institutions. Do we want great rates or safe banks? And as citizens, is it impossible -- or at least imprudent -- to demand both?
 Our tale begins in earnest with a letter that the president and chief executive of the American Bankers Association, Edward L. Yingling, sent on May 27, 2009, to Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. He argued that Ally Bank, an online bank owned entirely by GMAC Financial Services, posed a danger to the industry and the F.D.I.C. Chief among those concerns, he said, was Ally's high interest rates on certificates of deposit. 
 So why would he do such a thing? There are at least three reasons:
 RESENTMENT Ever since Ally ditched the old GMAC bank name and re-introduced itself to the nation last month, its marketing message has accused other banks of sneaky fees, fine print, poor service and double talk. But Ally itself isn't exactly forthright in its materials about its association with GMAC, a recipient of billions of dollars in bailout funds. ''It's a little obnoxious to remake yourself and then say you're better than everyone else,'' Mr. Yingling said in an interview on Thursday. 
 CONCERN FOR TAXPAYERS GMAC is, in effect, a ward of the state. Thanks to a myriad of problems and subsequent bailouts, the federal government owns just over a third of the company and may end up with a majority of it. In the past, troubled banks have paid outsize interest rates in an attempt to raise money quickly. Then, they've turned around and made big bets on loans, hoping to earn their way out of trouble. 
 Mr. Yingling said he worried that Ally might try to do the same thing. ''They're betting with government money,'' he said. If Ally were to fail, after all, the F.D.I.C. would have to make good on depositor funds. But Ally isn't likely to fail. Why? Because GMAC uses money from Ally depositors to finance loans to ailing G.M. and Chrysler dealers and car buyers. And the government has made it clear that it wants the automakers to live. 
 While the old GMAC bank got into trouble with bad mortgages, among other things, bank officials say it is making only prudent bets now. It had better be. Its government owners are watching carefully. Meanwhile, Ally's GMAC parent company is reasonably well capitalized once again as a result of the bailout funds. 
 CONCERN FOR OTHER BANKS The stronger members of the bankers association accuse Ally of using government bailout money to pay out high deposit rates, which they then need to match. Given how shaky the economy is, having the government subsidize a competitor is the last thing they need. 
 The F.D.I.C., however, seems most worried about the association's weaker members. While the agency does not comment on banks' operations, its most recent letter to GMAC, which is publicly available, indicated that it was concerned about its rates. And as Mr. Yingling suggested in his letter, the agency should not allow outlier banks to force others to raise rates simply to retain customers. This happened in the 1980s, and when weaker banks failed after having attracted a pile of money by offering high rates, it cost the F.D.I.C. plenty. Sheila Bair does not want to star in the remake of that movie. 
 And wouldn't you know it? Ally decided to lower some of its rates, not once but twice in the last six business days. Its one-year C.D. rate has fallen strikingly, from 2.80 percent on May 7 to 2.35 percent as of Friday. 
 Was it because the F.D.I.C. forced its hand? Gina Proia, a GMAC spokeswoman, declined to answer this question with a simple yes or no, saying that the company would not discuss conversations between it and its regulators. 
 ''We adjust our rates all the time,'' she said. ''We obviously have ongoing discussions with the F.D.I.C. They are our regulator. A regulator plays a big role in that, and we obviously comply with their requirements.''
 Now, Ally finds itself in a real pickle. When it overhauled the bank and changed the name in May, it shouted to the world its intent to be ''always offering rates among the best in the country.'' Now, it seems clear that the F.D.I.C. does not even want to see Ally's name in the top 10 lists of highest-rate-paying institutions that show up all over the Web. Ally has, in effect, become the bad guy, which is precisely the sort of thing that it was trying to define itself against. 
 When Ally made its rate promise a month ago, it didn't know that the F.D.I.C. was going to put it under the microscope, though it probably could have anticipated it. And we as taxpayers should certainly be cheering on the F.D.I.C. in its attempts to persuade Ally to lower the costs it incurs in attracting deposits. That will, after all, increase its profit margins if it makes safe loans to individuals and car dealers, who then pay them back on time and in full. And that would be good for all of us, since we are, in effect, part owners.
 The odd thing about this whole story, however, is that the F.D.I.C.'s actions seem a bit arbitrary. What is to stop it from going after SmartyPig, a Web site that helps people save money and puts their funds in an account at a bank that pays SmartyPig customers 3.05 percent, about half again the 2.05 percent for savings that Ally currently pays? While SmartyPig isn't owned in part by the government, its generous rate could also pose a temptation to weak banks that wish to match its clever service and sky-high interest rate. Will the F.D.I.C. go after that site to prevent temptation from taking hold?
 If you think the odds of that are low, then go ahead and put your money with SmartyPig. I plan to do this myself in the next couple of weeks. A couple of catches, though. You can't save more than $250,000 through SmartyPig at any one time. The site requires that you save at least another $10 in your account each month. And when you withdraw money, you have to withdraw every cent.
 Or, if you want to really raise your earnings but continue to do so in a safe place, put your money in one of the dozens of banks that pay twice or even three times Ally's savings account rates on mere checking accounts. I've linked to a list of them from the version of this column at nytimes.com/yourmoney. There are catches with these accounts too, like having to use your debit card a certain number of times a month.
 But you get the idea. If the F.D.I.C. wants to limit what banks can pay in interest, then it should go ahead and do that. Until it does, however, nothing is stopping all of us from moving our money away from banks like Ally that meet with its disapproval and giving it to even-higher-paying institutions that are not on its radar screen. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheila C. Bair, head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 Sanjay Gupta, chief marketing officer for Ally, at the online bank's offices in Charlotte, N.C.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INTERNET BANKING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (85%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (85%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



343 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Auto Executives Defend Dealership Closings as 'Our Last Chance'

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Automotive executives from General Motors and Chrysler defended their decision to shut down 2,000 dealerships across the country, telling a panel of skeptical lawmakers on Friday that the cull was necessary to their restructuring and survival. 
 ''This is our last chance,'' Fritz Henderson, chief executive of G.M., said during a hearing in Washington. ''We cannot undergo this sweeping transformation without a comparable effort to remake our retail network.''
 The struggling automakers say their large dealer networks are a relic of rapid expansion from five decades ago, and that they now represent a drain on the companies. Chrysler and G.M. argue that they can save billions on support costs, incentive payments and other costs by closing dealerships that perform poorly or do not fit restructuring plans.
 ''This has been the most difficult business action I've ever personally taken,'' said James E. Press, president of Chrysler, which won court approval this week to shut down 789 dealers. ''Today's automotive industry cannot support the number of dealers currently in the marketplace.''
 Their position drew considerable fire. 
 Auto dealers have traveled to Washington to protest the planned closings, and lawmakers on the House Energy Committee's oversight subcommittee said closing so many dealerships would eliminate tens of thousands of jobs, hurt local economies and do little to improve the automakers' long-term prospects.
 ''You're talking about the impact on people's lives in every Congressional district in this country,'' said Representative Bruce L. Braley, Democrat of Iowa. ''It's much broader than the loss of sales and service. It's part of the fabric of this country.''
 In what could be a critical test of the Obama administration's efforts to remake the auto industry, House lawmakers have introduced a bill to restore franchise agreements between Chrysler, General Motors and their dealers. Some senators have urged Chrysler to let their dealers appeal the closures.
 Chrysler does not have an appeals process for dealers affected by the closings, but G.M. said it had heard 856 appeals and granted 45.
 In sometimes emotional testimony on Friday, car dealers spoke of their connection to their communities, recalled how they supported little leagues and local nonprofit agencies and had operated businesses that had been in their families for generations. And they criticized what they called abrupt and unfair closures.
 ''In a period of 24 hours, my business was essentially taken from me with no real explanation other than, 'These are difficult times,' '' said Frank Blankenbecker, who owns Carlisle Chevrolet in Waxahachie, Tex. ''This makes no sense. Why is this happening?''
 It is not just dealerships that are closing. Chrysler and G.M. have announced plant closings around the country as they try to cut costs and readjust to a shrinking market. With the economy mired in recession, auto sales in the United States fell to fewer than 10 million a year, from a high of 17 million in 2005.
 After years of losses and billions of dollars in government aid, the automakers still face an uncertain fate. Chrysler emerged this week from 42-day trip through bankruptcy court after forging an alliance with the Italian automaker Fiat, and General Motors is restructuring in Chapter 11 and selling pieces of itself, including its Hummer and Saturn brands and the Opel unit. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fritz Henderson, center, head of General Motors , with other auto executives in Washington.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CLOSINGS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (66%); APPEALS (61%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (92%); BRUCE L BRALEY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



344 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Magazines: Their Vision Isn't G.O.P.'s

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Verbal brawling among conservatives over the future of the movement and the Republican Party has shifted into hyperdrive recently. From ideological conservatives like Dick Cheney and Rush Limbaugh to big-tent moderates like Colin L. Powell and Christine Todd Whitman, Republicans have been on talk shows and at debates to plead their cases and pan erstwhile allies. Yet there is one arena that seems decidedly uninterested in serving as a forum for competing visions: conservative magazines. 
 At The Weekly Standard, the point is ''to air our views,'' said Fred Barnes, executive editor of this newsy, inside-the-Beltway magazine. ''A lot of people want to write for us about the future of the Republican Party. We're not that interested in that. We're not that interested in the future of Republicans or conservatives. We're interested in Obama.'' 
 That is, less navel-gazing, more proselytizing and let the meek inherit the middle ground.
 For conservative commentators Mr. Obama's election and the turmoil of the opposition present a changed environment, not only from the past eight years when Republicans held the White House, but from the previous three decades, when conservative ideas dominated the national political agenda. 
 Since the financial meltdown, though, many Americans have sought government action, prompting conservative magazines to refocus on first principles and refight battles they assumed had already been won. 
 ''We're seeing free-market capitalism trampled in some new way every 12 hours,'' said Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, the magazine William F. Buckley started in 1955, which helped to create the conservative movement. Now, Mr. Lowry said, there is a need to restate ''the eternal verities'': the free market, traditional social institutions and a tough-minded foreign policy. 
 At The American Spectator, R. Emmett Tyrell Jr., its founder and editor, agrees. ''I'm writing a series of articles on the fundamental principles of the conservative movement,'' he said. As for discord on the right? ''Our major concern is that conservative philosophy permeate the country, and if the Republican Party doesn't want to go along with it, that's their business.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Tyrell, known for his go-for-the-jugular sensibility, has nothing but scorn for ''timid conservatives,'' moderates like the syndicated columnist Kathleen Parker or David Frum, the former speechwriter for George W. Bush, who has urged the party to reject the bellicose exhortations of Mr. Limbaugh, the radio talk-show host.
 National Review, too, has struggled with how much apostasy to allow in its pages. It rapped Mr. Frum in a recent issue, for example, for his broadsides about Mr. Limbaugh. Mr. Lowry explained that Mr. Limbaugh is a ''personal friend.''
 ''The Democrats wanted to turn him into a hate figure, and we'll defy that with every fiber of our being,'' he added.
 Mr. Frum left the magazine last fall to start his own blog, newmajority.com, saying at the time that ''we need a vibrant discussion.'' His departure came shortly after Buckley's son, Christopher, left after endorsing Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Lowry does allow that in addition to persuading ''people that we have the best vision,'' the editors should also ''air debate,'' and National Review recently published an article questioning the magazine's familiar anti-immigration stance. Yet in general, dissenters tend to be relegated to nationalreview.com. (All the magazines maintain Web sites that are often outlets for the most venomous exchanges.)
 Aside from political changes, the magazine industry as a whole is suffering from steep declines in advertising and a shift away from print to digital technology. Some political magazines, always dependent on the financial kindness of friends, have also seen donations dry up. 
 Last month The American Conservative, founded by Patrick Buchanan in 2002 as an alternative to what he called the neoconservative bent of The Weekly Standard, National Review and Commentary, announced that it had run out of money, only to say a few weeks later it was bouncing back and would return as a monthly after a six-week hiatus.
 ''We could hardly absent the field while a struggle is under way for the future of the Right,'' Daniel McCarthy, associate editor, wrote on the magazine's Web site, amconmag.com. 
 As it turns out, the publication has offered perhaps the most surprising range of views on its Web site in recent weeks. Mr. Buchanan rapped Judge Sonia Sotomayor, the president's pick for Supreme Court justice, even as Daniel Larison, a contributing editor, took other critics to task for their reflexive opposition to her. And in April an article criticized Ronald Reagan for transforming ''conservatism from a traditional doctrine of prudence, caution and sustainability -- a tough sell politically -- into a highly marketable brand of American exceptionalism.'' 
 At Commentary, John Podhoretz, who became editor last fall, said the monthly ''has always been in its own way a countercultural publication'' because of its Jewish identity.
 ''The obvious break between the past and present that is specific to Commentary has to do with being on guard for significant alterations in the relation of the U.S. to Israel,'' he said. 
 Mr. Obama's election has made that ''guiding mission much more urgent,'' he said. The May issue, for example, included a 25-page special section called ''Israel at Risk.'' Also new for the magazine, Mr. Podhoretz said, is a monthly piece on the economy.
 Like editors at other conservative magazines, Mr. Podhoretz does not view his as an arena for competing visions. ''I don't think of Commentary as a forum,'' he said. ''Our effort, when we publish something, is really to have it be authoritative.''
 As for the ''interplay between the conservative movement and the Republican Party,'' he is leaving it to others. ''I'm much less interested in that,'' he said.
 Of course, for conservatives, being in the minority is not exactly unfamiliar. When William F. Buckley published the first issue of National Review, he declared his magazine stood ''athwart history yelling stop.'' More than a half-century later, Mr. Lowry admitted that the November results were something of a relief. ''We saw it coming,'' he said, ''Now we can stop warning and began to think about how to fix it in earnest. This is what we live for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO)(PG. C1)
''We're not that interested in the future of Republicans or conservatives,'' said Fred Barnes, The Weekly Standard executive editor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (PG. C7)
Rich Lowry of National Review, left, and R. Emmett Tyrell Jr. of The American Spectator both feel a need to restate core beliefs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PG. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (93%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); WRITERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (89%); DICK CHENEY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



345 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: What We Need to Know

 BODY:
Kenneth Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, told a House committee this week that in December -- during some of the financial crisis's darkest days -- the government pressured him to complete the purchase of Merrill Lynch, despite what he said were unexpectedly large losses at the wounded brokerage firm. 
 We have a lot of questions about that claim. 
 Was such pressure necessary, if heavy-handed? Was it abuse of power? Some of the lawmakers weren't buying Mr. Lewis's account. At the hearing, Representative Dennis Kucinich cited e-mails from the Federal Reserve that he said indicated that Mr. Lewis had only threatened to back out to win federal support for the deal. Mr. Lewis said he wasn't bluffing.
 Without more information, it's also impossible to tell if shareholders were deceived. Lawsuits are pending. 
 What is certain is that the American public deserves to know the truth. Bank of America has gotten $45 billion in bailout funds -- $20 billion of that after it purchased Merrill. Several lawmakers are pressing for a follow-up hearing with Henry Paulson, the former Treasury secretary, and Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. They are right to do so. 
 The Lewis hearing is a stark reminder of all that the public still doesn't know about the events that precipitated the financial crisis. That is especially worrisome now as the Obama administration gets ready to propose an overhaul of the financial regulatory system. 
 How can we know we've gotten new structures right if we don't understand how the old ones failed? How can we know how to best delegate new regulatory powers if we don't understand how the old powers were used, or, possibly, abused?
 That is not to suggest that all reforms must be put on hold. On Thursday, a group of former federal regulators, finance professionals and finance scholars, gathered by the Yale School of Management's Millstein Center for Corporate Governance and Performance, wrote to President Obama to propose a sensible, two-phased approach to regulatory reform. 
 The first, they argued, should include an immediate agenda for market reforms, including new rules for regulating derivatives, mortgage brokers, credit ratings agencies and other urgent matters that have already been studied thoroughly and aired publicly. 
 The second phase would work on structural overhaul, especially new regulations, and institutions that may be needed to manage systemwide financial risks. Unlike the first phase of reforms, so-called systemic risk regulation is fundamentally new, involving potentially broad new government powers. 
 The letter argues persuasively that such changes should be linked to the work of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission created by Congress. (Democratic leaders will choose six of its members; the Republicans will choose four.) It will have subpoena power, financial support and, presumably, the political clout to conduct a thorough investigation. 
 By identifying failures in practice and regulation, it could provide a basis -- and perhaps even build a public consensus -- for the sweeping reforms needed to right the financial markets. Answering the many outstanding questions about how the country got into this mess is essential. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SUBPOENAS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (54%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009



346 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2009

LENGTH: 8970 words

HEADLINE: Landslide or Fraud? The Debate Online Over Iran's Election Results

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY


HIGHLIGHT: The Lede is tracking the debate unfolding on the Web on Saturday as to what the election results mean. We will bring you updates throughout the day and encourage Iranian readers to share their thoughts and experiences with us.

 BODY:
Updates for Saturday, June 13 and Sunday, June 14. 
Sunday's updates
Update | 4:48 p.m. A report from Iran's Press TV says that the country's most senior cleric, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said that the country's election was a great success and "has once again approved its result." Since Ayatollah Khamenei is the ultimate authority in Iran's complex governing structure, it seems clear that the regime is digging in against the protests by the opposition. Press TV added that Ayatollah Khamenei said that "psychological warfare aimed at discouraging people from voting failed." 
My colleagues Robert Worth and Nazila Fathi report from Tehran that the opposition's calls for the election results to be rejected were joined on Sunday by some clerics:
A moderate clerical body, the Association of Combatant Clergy, issued a statement posted on reformist Web sites saying the election was rigged and calling for it to be canceled, warning that "if this process becomes the norm, the republican aspect of the regime will be damaged and people will lose confidence in the system."
That call seems to have been rejected though, since more than 100 prominent opposition members have been detained and Mir Hussein Moussavi reportedly "remained at home Sunday with the police closely monitoring his movements."
The Lede will return with updates early Monday morning to follow developments on a day when the opposition has called for rallies across Iran.
Update | 4:29 p.m. At a small protest outside the United Nations in New York on Sunday, about 150 supporters of the Iranian opposition denounced the official results of Friday's presidential election in Iran and waved signs calling it a "coup." Many of the protesters wore green, the color of opposition candidate Mir Hussein Moussavi's movement and chanted "Where is my vote?"
One interesting moment at the demonstration involved a handful of royalists who showed up waving a flag from the era of Shah. They were quickly intercepted and chased away by the supporters of Mr. Moussavi who made up the vast majority of the crowd. After the incident, one of Mr. Moussavi's green-clad supporters told your Lede blogger that the group gathered today does not oppose the Islamic Republic, but simply wants the votes cast last Friday to be counted fairly.
Update | 1:44 p.m. The Lede is off to observe the protest outside the United Nations, but we will file more updates later today. Here is a report from The A.P. which includes footage of Mr. Ahmadinejad's press conference on Sunday:
By way of contrast, here's a video posted on YouTube by a member of the Facebook group Ahmadinejad is NOT my president!
Update | 1:30 p.m. One sign of how effective the disruption of the Internet inside Iran has been is that Iranian Flickr accounts, which were flooded with images of opposition rallies in the days before the election, have, with rare exceptions, remain static since Friday. One British-Iranian blogger we pointed to on Friday, did manage to post this single image of Saturday's protests on his account, along with this comment:
I've missed too many good photos, it's tricky when you're on the run from police on bikes with batons. This was really only the beginning though. Things got a lot worse after this. In the shot I'm ahead of most of the rioting. Getting to close means a more distressing run when the weird shot like sounds accompany the revs of the bikes get close.
He added:
Tehran has had a dramatic change in mood from last week to now, between which we've voted for our next president.
It was always going to be a tight race that many suspected we lead to a second round of voting. The two favourites being the incumbent Ahmadinejad and the so called reformer candidate, Mir Hossein Mousavi. It was also expected that the voter turnout would be high with these two candidates pitched against one another. What wasn't expected was a "landslide victory" for Ahmadinejad in the first round. He's much loved in rural Iran and could just have taken it, but the result just read like fiction. 
Another Flickr account, Mousavi1388, which may be maintained from outside Iran, posted a few images that look like they were taken on a mobile phone camera earlier today, including this one, from Tehran's Vali Asr Boulevard, where the victory rally for Mr. Ahmadinejad was held:
Update | 1:23 p.m. Tehran Bureau reports that their Web site, which is based in the U.S. but is taking in feeds from Iran, is back up. Here is a brief text report they have just psoted from an anonymous correspondent in the Iranian city of Isfahan:
From Isfahan, where there was a massive crackdown on a university dormitory (along with arrests): I am safe, yet in desperate need for sleep. Not only did they steal the vote but they are rubbing it in our faces, Ahmadinejad is holding "Thank You Ceremonies"!!! all over the country, they are giving away ice cream and cakes Isfahan is almost quiet today, but in Tehran & Ahwaz unrest continues, the people have devised a clever method of hit & run, although I am against destruction and anarchy, but that's the only way left to voice an opposition. The protests have become localized, in the neighborhoods small contingents of protestors gather, chant, throw stones and before the police can react they retreat to their houses only to emerge when the police is gone. In response security forces have deployed thousands of motor riding forces, one drives the other one slings his club right & left, a sort of quick response task force. Today I witnessed a motorcade of at least 30 of such odd couples!!!!
That report is followed by another sobering thought on how disillusioned many reformist voters are today:
you know the worst thing about all of this is that now there is no refuge left for the people, if someone from within the government does any wrong doing, there will be no higher authority to go to, if you are beaten up, and want to press charges, they will imprison you instead.
I am very angry at myself for being fooled so easily, they got us to vote, which gave them legitimacy, and then they manipulated the results, many are vowing never to vote again.
Update | 1:17 p.m. Earlier on Sunday one Iranian Twitter user, using the name Change_For_Iran, tweeted: "according to rumor mousavi requested all people to gather near his office at 12:30 pm today." That was quickly shot down by the Tehran Bureau's Twitter feed which replied: "@Change_for_Iran this is a trap! if you dont believe me then check with mousavi sites. order is to hold back till word. pls RT" The sign-off "pls RT" is Twitter lingo for "please re-tweet" or pass on the message.
For all the reported power of the Internet and social-networking tools to mobilize support for political movements, the regime in Iran may be counting on the fact that the opposition's "green wave" will have trouble emulating the success of the "orange revolution" in Ukraine if the Internet and text messaging continues to be disrupted inside Iran.
Update | 1:14 p.m. Protests on Sunday and Monday are being scheduled via Facebook by Iranian opposition supporters in other countries. The Lede is heading up to observe a protest outside the United Nations in New York at 2 p.m. Information on other events is being posted at a site called Where Is My Vote
Update | 1:08 p.m. A new post on the Tehran Bureau Twitter feed, reports a slightly earlier time for Monday's opposition rallies across Iran:
Mousavi's wife today called for a united, peaceful demonstration across 20 cities from 4pm tomorrow Monday, and a national strike on Tuesday.
The late afternoon timing of the rallies may be an indication that Mr. Moussavi's campaign wants to show its strength during daylight hours in the United States and Europe.
Update | 1:05 p.m. The BBC has video of the large victory rally for Mr. Ahmadinejad on Sunday in Tehran. Earlier, Tehran Bureau's Twitter feed objected that Western media organizations were giving too much air time to these officially-sanctioned video images from Iranian state television: "It's too bad CNN's cameras are focused on the staged sham, while protesters being brutally beaten (and God knows what) elsewhere."
Update | 12:59 p.m. Press TV, Iran's state-supported satellite news channel, confirms the report that Mr. Moussavi is calling for rallies across Iran on Monday:
In a statement, defeated candidate Mir-Hossein Moussavi says he has asked Iranian authorities to issue a permit for staging rallies in cities around the country. "These rallies will give the Iranian people an opportunity to express their opposition to election process and its result," Moussavi said in a statement on Sunday.
He added that he has asked the Guardian Council, the body that supervises elections, to cancel the result of the Friday's poll in which President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was declared victor by a landslide.
In his statement, the former prime minister said that Iranian authorities have made no response to the request for rallies. "If the officials agree with the request, it will be the best way to control the current sentiments," he added.
Moussavi also criticized communication disruption in Iran over the past two days and said, "This will provoke reaction. It is concerning that it will turn into blind moves."
The Telecommunication Company of Iran (TCI) earlier confirmed that text message (SMS) services had been shut down just hours before the opening of the 10th presidential election on Friday. 
Update | 12:57 p.m. 
Before the site went down, Tehran Bureau reported that the opposition candidate Mir Hussein Moussavi has called for rallies across Iran to protest the results on Monday and a general strike on Tuesday. Here is the last update we read on Tehran Bureau this morning before the site went down:
Just in from Tehran (9:32 am EST) Zahra Rahnavard gave a speech at Tehran University today, Sunday, June 14. To a large audience of students, Ms. Rahnavard announced the latest official statement issued by Mir Hossein Mousavi, who has pledged he will not back down from contesting the fraudulent 22 Khordad election results.
Mousavi calls on all Reformist supporters to take part in a PEACEFUL MARCH & MASS DEMONSTRATION in 20 cities across Iran on Monday, June 15 (doshanbeh, 25 Khordad) at 17:00 to denounce the election results as fraud. He has applied for a license to protect the safety of protestors.
The Tehran location is Valiasr Avenue, from Valiasr Square to Tajrish Square. The locations in other cities are listed below.
Mousavi has also called for a NATIONAL STRIKE on Tuesday, June 16 (Khordad 26) and asked all those who contest the results to close their shops, businesses, etc. and for employees to not go to work that day.
Communication is critical to success for a large turnout, so please forward this to every Iranian you know. The statement is verified on Ghalam News (ghalamnews.ir), the official site of the Mousavi campaign (site rasmi setad).
UPDATES:
- Ghalamnews, Mousavi's official setad site, has officially confirmed the march along Valiasr tomorrow (Monday) and a national strike on Tuesday. PLEASE FWD THIS NEWS TO ALL. Also, pls post on Facebook - it is blocked, but many can bypass filter and access it.
- There is another rumor going around that the basij has stationed SNIPERS on valiasr this may be a scare tactic rumor, but it is not unlikely which makes things so much more deadly. This should also be warned so people see how brutal the regime is prepared to be - worse than the Shah's army.
Update | Sunday, June 14 | 12:43 p.m. Here is a quick update of what we know of events on Sunday. As my colleagues Robert Worth and Nazila Fathi report in their latest dispatch from Tehran, Iran's President held a press conference on Sunday in which he dismissed protests by opposition supporters and accusations that the election had been stolen:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran on Sunday likened the protests disputing his election victory, the most intense disturbances in Tehran in a decade, as well as the possible arrests of his opponents to the passions of soccer.
Dozens of reformist politicians were said to have been arrested at their homes overnight, according to news reports on Sunday and a witness who worked with the politicians. There were also reports of politicians and clerics being placed under house arrest.
In a wide-ranging news conference with domestic and foreign correspondents, Mr. Ahmadinejad said that his re-election was "real and free" and accused foreign media of launching a "psychological war" against Iran.
The Associated Press reports that communications remain disrupted inside the country:
Iran restored cell phone service that had been down in the capital since Saturday. But Iranians could not send text messages from their phones, and the government increased its Internet filtering in an apparent attempt to undercut liberal voices. Social networking sites including Facebook and Twitter were also not working.
The restrictions were likely intended to prevent Mousavi's supporters from organizing large-scale protests. But smaller groups assembled around the city. About 300 Mousavi supporters gathered outside Sharif University, chanting ''Where are our votes?''
It appears that direct attacks on Web sites passing on messages from the opposition have continued.
The Iranian-American Web site Tehran Bureau reports on its Twitter feed: "tehranbureau.com down. we got hacked and have to repair."
----------------------
Saturday's Updates
Update | 7:20 p.m. We're signing off for the evening. Please check the home page of NYTimes.com for any developments that may take place overnight. The New York Times Op-Ed columnist Roger Cohen has filed a video report from Tehran, discussing the election and Saturday's protests. 
Here is an unlikely but good source of photographs and video of protests in Iran earlier on Saturday: a discussion board on the Web site Big Soccer.com. Thanks to the reader who pointed it out.
Update | 7:05 p.m. Time magazine's Nahid Siamdoust reports that the protests continued late into the night:
It's way past midnight in Tehran, but this city is not sleeping. Outside on the streets, people are honking their horns in protest and stretching their hands out of cars making peace signs - a sign of support for Mir-Hossein Mousavi, the opposition candidate apparently defeated by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in Iran's presidential election on Friday. 
In neighborhoods across north and central Tehran, shouts of "Death to dictator!" fill the air, mostly in female voices, coming from house windows. There are also shouts of "Allah-o Akbar!" - reminiscent of the revolution - on the urging of a communique from Mousavi's office. 
Some of Tehran's main streets have been turned into urban battlegrounds. Groups of mostly young men have set large garbage bins on fire in the middle of streets, torn out street signs and fences, broken the windows and ATM machines of state banks, and burnt at least five large buses in the middle of streets.
 "They have totally fooled us," said one sad man, a 32-year-old state employee, standing by the roadside. "This time they went too far. They just want to eliminate 'republic' and turn this into an Islamic dictatorship," he said with a sigh.
On Ghaem-Magham Street, a lone chadori woman stood by the roadside, making a peace sign with her index finger wrapped in a green ribbon, saying "Mousavi" to every passing car. Out of 50 cars that passed, all but 5 either honked, rolled down their windows to shout their support, or made peace signs in solidarity. [...]
 Then a man in a car moving in the other direction rolled down his window and shouted at her in anger, "You whore! Why are you creating conflict between people?" A basiji (a member of the volunteer paramilitary aligned with Ahmadinejad) charged at her from nowhere with a metal rod and was about to beat her when he was held down and beaten himself by five or six men streaming out of nearby cars.
"I mean, just look at this! If Ahmadinejad won 25 million votes, which they claim, we should be celebrating, right?" an onlooker commented. 
Update | 6:50 p.m. The International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran reports that the Iranian filmmaker Mohsen Makhmalbaf said on Saturday that officials from Iran's Interior Ministry had contacted Mir Hussein Moussavi's campaign after the polls closed on Friday night, saying that he had won the election, but asking that he not make any announcement. Mr. Makhmalbaf, who is currently in Paris, said, "After security forces attacked and shut down the press offices of Moussavi's campaign in Gheitarieh yesterday, I was asked to act as their spokesperson abroad."
He added that he was asked to spread the word that "last night Interior Ministry officials told Moussavi and his staff that he has won the elections but they should not make it public yet. Moussavi's campaign, accordingly, began preparations for a public celebration on Sunday."
Of course Mr. Moussavi ignored the Interior Ministry request and did announce that he had won. Soon after that, the Interior Ministry made what even Iranian state media reported was a "surprise" early declaration that Mr. Ahmadinejad had won, after less than 20% of the ballots had been counted.
In what looks suspiciously like a related incident, Mr. Makhmalbaf's personal Web site seems to have been attacked. A Google search for "Makhmalbaf Film House," leads to a warning saying that within the past 24 hours Google had spotted "malicious software being downloaded and installed without user consent" from the filmmaker's Web site. As Google's warning explains: "In some cases, third parties can add malicious code to legitimate sites, which would cause us to show the warning message."
Your Lede blogger has visited the Web site Makhmalbaf.com many times in the past and never come across any such warning.
Update | 6:27 p.m. Before we sign off for the day, it is worth noting that the reader who claimed that Iranians in Boston had voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Ahmadinejad appears to have been wildly off the mark. According to a report for the Global Post from Shirin Jaafari:
Mir Hossein Mousavi won the vote of Iranians in Boston with 89.5 percent of the votes cast at polling stations in Boston and Cambridge. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad got 3.3 percent, while Mehdi Karoubi took 6.6 percent and Mohsen Rezai got 0.33 percent.
Update | 6:13 p.m. The Tehran Bureau Web site has posted what it says is a letter from Mir Hussein Moussavi, in the Farsi original and English translation. Unfortunately, they make no mention of how they got it, or why they believe it to be authentic, but it does track closely to the statement from Mr. Moussavi Channel 4 News quoted from earlier on Saturday. If the letter is authentic, it is evidence that Mr. Moussavi has no intention of giving in. The letter reads, in part:
I am obliged, due to my religious and national duties, to expose this dangerous plot and to explain its devastating effects on the future of Iran. I am concerned that the continuation of the current situation will transform all key members of this regime into fabulists in confrontation with the nation and seriously jeopardize them in this world and the next.
Update | 5:51 p.m. Nate Silver, on his blog FiveThirtyEight.com, pours a lot of cold water on the statistical analysis we mentioned earlier, in this post. Mr. Silver makes a clear case against the idea that a consistent two to one margin is evidence of fraud, leading to this observation:
I am not suggesting that any and all statistical analysis purporting to show tampering in Iran's election results will turn out to be fruitless. I am merely suggesting that this particular analysis is dubious; it is not a smoking gun.
Although it has nothing to do with statistics, this comment from an Iranian named Darius on FiveThirtyEight.com suggests how much the Internet has been disrupted in Iran:
I'm sitting in my grandparents' house in Tehran right now and I'm hearing mini-explosions, there's helicopters flying around, it smells like smoke, and it took fifteen minutes for this website to load because they've slowed down the internet so much here. On top of that they've basically blocked parts of Iran from the international phone network so I can't even call my mother. 80% of the Iranian people did not enthusiastically turn out in order to re-elect someone who has ruined this country both economically and culturally. The Iranian people know that this election was rigged. How could it have been possible for Moussavi to lose Tabriz when he is from Iranian Azerbaijan and Ahmadinejad has abysmal approval ratings amongst Turkic speaking Iranians? [...]
Facebook does not work, YouTube does not work, basically all communications are down. You tell me sir, if they did not rig the elections where are all the people who supported Ahmadinejad? Why aren't they celebrating? Why is the mood in Tehran, even southern Tehran so gloomy? Why is the government so scared? 
Update | 5:38 p.m. Al Jazeera reports that a speech by Mr. Ahmadinejad earlier today seems to have done little to quell the uproar at his election:
The protests intensified following a televised speech by Ahmadinejad in which he said the vote had been "completely free" and the outcome was "a great victory" for Iran."
"Today, the people of Iran have inspired other nations and disappointed their ill-wishers," he said. "This is a great victory at a time when the ... propaganda facilities outside Iran and sometimes inside Iran were totally mobilized against our people."
Ahmadinejad praised the country's youth, but made no direct mention of the protests.
Update | 5:28 p.m. The National, an Abu Dhabi newspaper, reports that a statement on Mr. Moussavi's Web site said that he wrote to senior clerics asking them to intervene, arguing that not doing so could harm the regime:
"With all ways to secure their rights blocked, the innocent people are confronted with the silence of the clerics and this will bring more damage than a change in votes," he said in a statement on his website.
My colleagues in Tehran, Robert Worth and Nazila Fathi, report that those hopes seem to be have been dashed:
Ayatollah Khamenei closed the door to any appeals for intervention in a statement issued on state television on Saturday afternoon, congratulating Mr. Ahmadinejad on his victory and urging the other candidates to throw in the towel. "Our respected president is the president of all the people, including those who were his rivals yesterday, and they should all help and support him," he said.
Update | 5:24 p.m. Al Jazerra also reports that "with each updated count, Ahmadinjad's lead did not waver from a very stable range of 66-69 per cent, irrespective of which districts were reporting." 
Update | 5:02 p.m. A reader writes that people are still on the streets in Iran:
We lost our hopes today. The fraud election 2009 has made ppl disappointed and hopeless that any change could happen under the current regime. Ppl are on the streets chanting "death to the petite dictator" and riot police is firing gun shots and beating them up with batons, but how long could this go on? - Yoones
Update | 4:54 p.m. My colleagues in Tehran, Robert Worth and Nazila Fathi, note that Mr. Moussavi is not the only candidate to dispute the results:
"The results of the 10th presidential election are so ridiculous and so unbelievable that one cannot write or talk about it in a statement," said Mehdi Karroubi, a reformist cleric and candidate. He came in last with 300,000 votes - much fewer than analysts had predicted. "It is amazing that the people's vote has turned into an instrument for the government to stabilize itself."
Update | 4:49 p.m. Reports posted on the Web site of the Tehran Times, an English-language newspaper, seem to support the mathematical analysis of the results we mentioned earlier -- it looks like Mr. Ahmadinejad, maintained a roughly two to one lead over Mr. Moussavi throughout the vote counting.
Update | 3:53 p.m. Several readers have pointed to this mathematical analysis charting the share of the vote for Mr. Ahmadinejad and Mr. Moussavi as it was reportedly announced by the interior ministry. It is not clear who made this chart, or if it is accurate, but it is informing the debate online at the moment. We are trying to find out more about it and will let you know what we discover. Tehran Bureau attributes the analysis to an Iranian Web site, JameJamonline.ir. Muhammas Sahmi argues on the Tehran Bureau Web site that it is fishy: 
The best evidence for the validity of the arguments of the three opponents of the President for rejecting the results declared by the Interior Ministry is the data the Ministry itself has issued. In the chart below, compiled based on the data released by the Ministry and announced by Iran's national television, a perfect linear relation between the votes received by the President and Mir Hossein Mousavi has been maintained, and the President's vote is always half of the President's.
One of our readers comments:
If one reads the specifics of the vote results (i.e. Ahmadinejad supposedly won in Tehran and Tabriz), how the count progressed and combine it with what people on the ground are saying, there is no way you would believe that this election was fair and square. There was blatant fraud. They didn't even try to hide the fact that they were rigging the election. They didn't even try to make the numbers look believable. - Sarvi
Update | 3:51 p.m. The updates from Iran on the Tehran Bureau Web site can also be followed on this Facebook wall, which now includes video of protests in Shiraz as well as Tehran. 
Update | 3:14 p.m. Under the headline "Congratulation Messages Pour In," Iran's state news agency reports, with an apparent lack of irony, that Mr. Ahmadinejad's victory has been hailed abroad -- by the leaders of three groups of Islamic fundamentalists and the government of Syria:
Tehran, June 13, IRNA - Following President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's landslide victory in the 10th Presidential Elections, Syrian, Egyptian and Palestinian leaders cabled messages of congratulation on Saturday on his re-election.
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Leader of Egyptian Ikhwan al-Muslimin Mohammad-Mehdi Akef, Palestinian Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas), and Palestinian Islamic Jihad Movement in separate messages congratulated President Ahmadinejad on his victory. They wished him success and prosperity.
That Iran's President is basking in the glow of support from the Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad suggests that we may be waiting a long time for the "new greeting to the world" Mr. Moussavi promised on his campaign posters.
Update | 3:03 p.m. Lindsey Hilsum of Britain's Channel 4 News filed this video report from Tehran, in which she said "I feel like I went to sleep in one country and woke up in another," as the peaceful rallies staged by opposition supporters in the last week gave way to violent suppression of dissent on Saturday. Her report includes footage of Mr. Moussavi's defiant press conference on Friday night, and the text of his statement on Saturday, in which he said: "The result of what I see from such a performance by dishonest people is shaking the pillars of the Islamic Republic and the rule of deception and dictatorship."
Update | 3:00 p.m. Here is the full report from Iran's IRNA news agency of what the country's ruler had to say about the election:
Tehran, June 13, IRNA -- Supreme Leader of Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei said Saturday that the voter turnout of over 80 percent and the 24 million votes cast in favor of the president calls for real celebration.
In an important message, issued after the 10th Presidential Elections on June 12, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the enemies are creating provocations out of ill-wish in order not to let the Iranian nation be joyful and happy about the election results.
The Supreme Leader thanked the public for their heroic and powerful turnout in the elections and congratulated them on the big victory. "I congratulate ... the people on this massive success and urge everyone to be grateful for this divine blessing," declared the Ayatollah.
Ayatollah Khamenei said that the Iranian people at large, especially dear youth, and supporters of the elected candidate and of other candidates should be fully alert and avoid any provocative and suspicious actions and speech. 
If you haven't already seen it on the home page of NYTimes.com, you should have a look at this slide show of the protests, and celebrations, in Tehran on Saturday:
Update | 2:44 p.m. A reader using the Web alias "Iranian Voter" reminds us that the repeated warnings from Iran's intelligence service that opposition movements in favor of reform in Iran are nothing more than foreign government plots are believed by some Iranians:
Color revolutions were masterminded by the West to turn former Soviet states into western satellite states, thus encircling Russia with hostile pro-Western states. Iran is of course the missing gap, the vulnerable underbelly of Russia. Yet, is that all you westerners conceive of us, your stooges? You have not learned the historical lessons then. A few days before the election the Moussavi camp turned green, made human chain, simulated 1978 street clashes, their puppet masters at CIA headquarters & MI6 in rapture. Soft green-colored coup turned to be a putsch and a grief to its organizers.
For a longer discussion of this theory, see an earlier post on The Lede, which includes a link to a remarkable public service announcement from Iranian television warning that opponents of the regime are all murderous stooges of the American government.
A colleague at The Times asks if any readers in Iran might be able to explain how it is that Mr. Moussavi's campaign came to use the color green as its symbol. The British-Iranian blogger at Going Green offered this explanation earlier this week:
Mousavi is a Sayed, meaning via his male lineage, he's related to the prophet Mohammad. To symbolise this, Sayeds use a certain shade of green, also shown in the national flag. Establishing this within his identity was great strategy, but also total luck, for each candidate was assigned a colour by which the state broadcasting group selected at random.
Update | 2:19 p.m. The Tehran Bureau's live blog on events in Iran's capital has several clips of videos uploaded to YouTube on Saturday, showing some of the protests by opposition supporters -- including these clashes with riot police in Vanak Square this afternoon:
Reuters reports that one of its reporters was injured in these clashes:
A Reuters reporter said she and others were beaten by police with batons as police chased and arrested demonstrators staging a sit-in at Tehran's Vanak Square, one of the capital's busiest intersections.
At least three people were injured in the clash, which broke out after the Interior Ministry announced the hardline incumbent's resounding victory in Friday's vote.
Reuters adds:
Up to 2,000 of his supporters staged a sit-in protest in the middle of the road, clapping hands and chanting: "Moussavi take back our vote! What happened to our vote?" They also chanted at security forces: "Police, brother, you're one of us." 
Update | 2:12 p.m. Tehran Bureau also has a remarkable live blog with updates from inside Iran. The report includes a lot of video of protests on Saturday in Tehran and these interesting observations:
After election results were announced, the election committee must wait for three days to accept any grievances for any irregularity before certify the results. The results of election needs to be certified by the Council of Experts before it goes to the Leader for final approval
Today neither of these two rules were followed and the Leader in his speech approved the results of the election and asked all parties involved to work with Ahmadinejad.
BTW, according to the news only 173000 Iranians voted outside of Iran and Mousavi got most of the votes (around 83000 votes).
Update | 1:53 p.m. On the Web site Tehran Bureau, which is based outside Iran, but relies on bilingual journalists to help make sense of what is happening inside the country, Mea Cyrus argues on Saturday that "What happened at the polls today was sadly predictable. One strong indication right from the start was that the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei made his decision to put all his power behind President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad." Ms. Cyrus points out that the fact that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad felt comfortable attacking a former President, and senior cleric, was a sign that he had the support of the unelected Ayatollah Khamenei, who really runs Iran's government:
Ahmadinejad continued his highly controversial verbal attacks on former president Ayatollah Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, even though some claim Khamenei blasted him in public after a particularly heated televised debate between him and former prime minister Mir Hossein Mousavi.
While some believed the supreme leader has called on all the candidates to tone down the attacks on one another-for instance, he was crystal clear when he chided Mousavi for saying Iran's image has been tarnished in the world by Ahmadinejad-Mr. Khamenei did not use his authority to show he meant business.
One of the supreme leader's favorite channels of communication with other politicians, apart from his sharp speeches, is Kayhan newspaper. It is widely known in Iran that Hossein Shariatmadari, Khamenei's representative at Kayhan Press Institute, has not only the Ayatollah's ears, but also serves as his mouthpiece.
When Kayhan, in its first edition after the debate, criticized only Mousavi for his comments during the debate, and afforded Ahmadinejad the right to defend himself, it was a clear signal that the controversial attacks would continue.
Update | 1:39 p.m. Here are more perspectives from the streets of Tehran, in an article written by Bill Keller, the executive editor of The New York Times, just published on our Web site:
Iranians who hoped for a bit more freedom, a better managed economy and a less reviled image in the world wavered between protest and despair on Saturday.
On the streets around Fatemi Square, near the headquarters of the leading opposition candidate, Mir Hussein Moussavi, riot police officers dressed in Robocop gear roared down the sidewalks on motorcycles to disperse and intimidate the clots of pedestrians who gathered to share rumors and dismay.
"Another four years of dictatorship," a voter muttered, and "this is a coup d'etat." Several others agreed. Some women wept openly. Some talked of "mutiny." Others were more cynical.
"It was just a movie," said Hussein Gharibi, a 54-year-old juice vendor, scoffing at those who got their hopes up. "They were all just players in a movie."
Voters were obliged to chose a candidate and fill in a code. Though Mr. Moussavi was Candidate No. 4, the code No. 44 signified Mr. Ahmadinejad.
One man who worked in the Ministry of Interior, which carried out the vote count, said the government had been preparing its fraud for weeks, purging anyone of doubtful loyalty and importing pliable staff members from around the country.
"They didn't rig the vote," claimed this man, who showed his ministry identification card but pleaded not to be named. "They didn't even look at the vote. They just wrote the name and put the number in front of it."
Mr. Keller also reports that there is discussion in Iran's capital today of how the vote may have been rigged, including the suggestion that "the ballots seemed designed to lead opposition voters astray."
Mr. Keller also reports that the authorities seem to have prevented Mr. Moussavi from even appearing on Saturday to rally the opposition:
Mr. Moussavi, who disappeared from view amid rumors that he was under house arrest or worse, sent word that there would be no turning back, but he did not say how he or his followers should challenge the outcome.
The text-messaging that is the nervous system of the opposition was shut down, along with universities, Web sites and newspapers the government regarded as hostile. Mr. Moussavi was not allowed a platform on Saturday, and barely managed to get out a communique calling the election "a magic show."
Update | 1:30 p.m. Another reader in Iran shares her frustration:
None of the people I know have voted for Ahmadinejad. He wildly cheated and Khamenei, the leader of Iran, supports this scenario fully. They just wanted to show us that no matter what we do and what we think, they will do whatever they want to do. They just want people to know that their votes just don't count. ... I just feel terrible. I saw police force attack people brutally. I'm going to streets and I don't know if I'm gonna come back home safely but I just can't bear this anymore. - Anahita
Update | 1:21 p.m. A reader writes to scold us for even considering the possibility that the election results are genuine -- though, to be clear, we are not saying that Mr. Ahmadinejad did win fairly, or that the interior ministry he controls did count the votes accurately. We are just pointing to one possible explanation offered by some observers, that media reports of the opposition's strength could have been wrong. Here is the counter-argument, that what we are seeing unfold in Iran today is more like the crushing of the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989 than like the New Hampshire primary in 2008:
No one with the slightest trace of active brain in his head would believe the outcome of the elections. The pseudo-realism of Western media is quite a shame, as they try to still balance whether or not the elections were rigged. Every independent poll suggested a landslide victory for Mousavi the day before the elections. It is also not true that Mousavi had his support base only in Tehran. Commentators from small and large cities and also many rural areas indicated overwhelming support for Mousavi. Even the claim that the Iranian poor supports Ahmadinejad is a lie. Four years of his government has made the life only more difficult for the poor. We shouldn't forget that the continuing labor strikes in Haft Tappe, Assalouye and the sugar factories, just to mention a few. Far from the wishful thinking of the Iranian elite, it is absolutely evident that the votes were rigged and what is happening now is nothing less than a coup. - Bahram
Update | 1:17 p.m. More video of the protests by supporters of the opposition in Tehran on Saturday, in a report on the Web site of Radio Liberty, which is financed by the U.S. government.
Update | 12:44 p.m. The BBC has posted some dramatic footage of clashes today on the streets of Tehran between opposition supporters and riot police. As the BBC notes, scenes of the police beating demonstrators are disturbing.
Update | 12:36 p.m. A live blog set up by the National Iranian American Council has posted these translations of recent comments from the Farsi-language Twitter feed of Gholamhossein Karbaschi, the campaign manger for Mehdi Karroubi, the other reformist candidate who took part in the elections. As Nazila Fathia noted in The Times in March, Mr. Karbaschi "was instrumental in Mohammad Khatami's victory in 1997." Here are some of his recent tweets:
 "Karoubi's camp believes that if there is no resistance this time, people's help can never be expected again."
 "Making any decision is very difficult and we are in a very difficult situation, any protest must very carefully calculated."
 "Karbaschi asks people to follow the news through satellite, facebook and internet and ignore rumors."
 "Karoubi will never be silent. He is present in the scene and never left it. Solutions are being considered."
Update | 12:31 p.m. A video report from The Associated Press includes amateur footage of some of Mir Hussein Moussavi's supporters on the streets of Tehran today:
Update | 12:07 p.m. A reader reminds us that support for Iran's incumbent President exists even among Iranians living in the United States:
I can confidently say a vast majority of Iranians in Boston favored and most probably voted for Doctor Ahmadinejad. All my friends overseas as well as inside Iran favored the President. ... - Faramarz Fathi
Another reader, in Iran, echoes that sentiment and mentions that soliciting opinion in English from Iranians could well skew our perspective:
I didn't vote for Ahmadinejad, but I think that Ahmadinejad does have many supporters. But his supporters are mainly conservative people who don't know English and are not Web users. Please don't assume that the Iranian Web users are representative of all the voters. The same false assumption is made by many upper-class Iranians who only see their friends and relatives in northern Tehran and foreign countries and assume that all people are against Ahmadinejad.
Ahmadinejad did very well in the debates. He also publicly criticized some very influential officials which boosted his popularity, even among people who hadn't voted before. Btw, my impression is that Ahmadinejad's supporters are more shy than than Mousavi's supporters. Mousavi's are very loud and held massive rallies in Tehran and big cities (many people were annoyed by such lavish gatherings). Ahmadinejad often fear being ridiculed by others and don't express themselves much. This has contributed to the delusion that everybody is pro-Mousavi. - Mohammad
Didn't we have a similar discussion in the United States after the Democratic party's New Hampshire primary last year, when all reports focused on the large rallies of enthusiastic Obama supporters in town centers before the vote?
Update | 11:44 a.m. Writing on The Guardian's Web site Abbas Barzegar, a graduate student in religious studies at Emory University, says that the election result only proves that residents of the wealthier parts of Tehran and the Western media engaged in "wishful thinking" in the days leading up to the vote. Mr. Barzegar writes:
I have been in Iran for exactly one week covering the 2009 Iranian election carnival. Since I arrived, few here doubted that the incumbent firebrand President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad would win. My airport cab driver reminded me that the president had visited every province twice in the last four years - "Iran isn't Tehran," he said. Even when I asked Mousavi supporters if their man could really carry more than capital, their responses were filled with an Obamasque provisional optimism - "Yes we can", "I hope so", "If you vote." So the question occupying the international media, "How did Mousavi lose?" seems to be less a problem of the Iranian election commission and more a matter of bad perception rooted in the stubborn refusal to understand the role of religion in Iran.
Of course, the rather real possibility of voter fraud exists and one must wait in the coming weeks to see how these allegations unfold. But one should recall that in three decades of presidential elections, the accusations of rigging have rarely been levied against the vote count. Elections here are typically controlled by banning candidates from the start or closing opposition newspapers in advance. [...]
As far as international media coverage is concerned, it seems that wishful thinking got the better of credible reporting. It is true that Mousavi supporters jammed Tehran traffic for hours every night over the last week, though it was rarely mentioned that they did so only in the northern well-to-do neighborhoods of the capital. Women did relax their head covers and young men did dance in the street.
On Monday night at least 100,000 of the former prime minister's supporters set up a human chain across Tehran. But, hours before I had attended a mass rally for the incumbent president that got little to no coverage in the western press because, on account of the crowds, he never made it inside the hall to give his speech. Minimal estimates from that gathering have been placed at 600,000 (enthusiasts say a million). From the roof I watched as the veiled women and bearded men of all ages poured like lava.
According to this theory, all that happened is that observers, and reformists, misinterpreted the massive rallies for Mr. Moussavi this week and failed to understand that his support was not as broad as it seemed from Tehran. What observers like Mr. Barzegar are saying is that just as reporters from other countries trying to gauge the popular mood in the United States would be wrong to base their reports on what people on Manhattan's Upper West Side told them, reporters visiting Tehran this week failed to understand that support for Mr. Moussavi was perhaps not as broad as it seemed from the leafier parts of the capital.
That said, there are some obvious anomalies. As The Guardian's Ian Black reported on Saturday: "in Mousavi's hometown province of Tabriz in north-west Iran, the ministry claimed Ahmadinejad received more than 60% of the vote."
Mr. Black adds that the authorities worked hard to suppress reports that Mr. Moussavi's campaign disputed the official results:
Early editions of Mousavi's paper Kalemeh Sabz, or the Green Word, and other reformist dailies declared Mousavi the victor but were ordered to change their headlines, local journalists said. The papers had blank spots where articles were removed.
Update | 11:37 a.m. Another of our Iranian readers endorses the theory aired elsewhere today -- that the official vote totals are correct, but have simply been reversed to give Mr. Ahmadinejad rather than Mr. Moussavi a landslide victory:
There are nothing special to say, to talk about, to think about.... They stole the vote results and reversed the final result. Mir Hossein is in our hearts. - Hasan from Iran 
Update | 11:28 a.m. One of our Iranian readers writes to tell us that the election has convinced him that it is better not to vote in Iran's elections:
After four years the silent non-voters became convinced that if they vote this time round the difference between reformist votes with conservative ones would be so great that the regime would not dare to cheat. Alas, they were wrong (including myself who voted for the first time in the last 30 years). This regime has decided to continue ruling without any change. In Iran, despite what I read in some comments, there is not democracy. There is only HOPE for democracy and this HOPE brought people to cast balots. The political structure is so that all such hopes are only illusions.
The regime use democratic tools (elections) as a means to show off its legitimacy. It does not believe at all to democracy. It says democracy is a Western and not Islamic value and in fact it fight all western values. In this respect I am sure that this time millions of people will join those who believed that voting only further strengthen the regime and will not vote any more as long as this regime is in power. ... - Hormoz
Update | 11:20 a.m. Reuters reports that the man who is the ultimate authority in Iran's theocratic system of government, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei "told all Iranians to respect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's victory in a presidential election that his closest challenger described as a 'dangerous charade.'" Reuters adds that there has been some violence in Tehran but on a relatively small scale:
Trouble erupted on the streets when Ahmadinejad partisans clashed with about 2,000 supporters of moderate former prime minister Mirhossein Mousavi who had been staging a protest against the result of Friday's vote, a Reuters witness said.
The scale of Ahmadinejad's triumph upset widespread expectations that the race would at least go to a second round, and his victory is unlikely to help unblock a standoff with the West over Iran's nuclear programme.
Khamenei, Iran's top authority, told defeated candidates and their supporters to avoid "provocative behaviour" as police with batons moved in to disperse stone-throwing Mousavi supporters, from Vanak Square in the capital. Some protesters were arrested and two men were carried away from the scene.
"The chosen and respected president is the president of all the Iranian nation and everyone, including yesterday's competitors, must unanimously support and help him," Khamenei said in a statement read on state television.
Earlier on Saturday, one of our readers in Iran sent us this comment warning that there could be trouble:
I am a student living in Tehran. My Family lives in Shiraz. At the present time that I'm witting to you people has gathered in front of Ministry of Interior Affairs to protest against the results which are announced early this morning. Mousavi just announced a statement declaring that people do NOT obey the fraudulent government and these people are not afraid to burn these pietist's house. - Arash
Another reader added this thought:
Everyone is thinking the same thing that the election was obviously fixed. I'm sorry I voted, it was a waste of time and I donned the dreaded hejab in heat for no reason. - Sara 
Update | 11:02 a.m. Iran's state-supported satellite channel, Press TV , reports on Saturday that Iran's interior minister, Sadeq Mahsouli, has rejected claims that the election officials in his ministry failed to spot, or took part in, voter fraud, as the opposition has claimed. According to :
Iranian Interior Minister Sadeq Mahsouli has declared that the 10th presidential elections were conducted in a manner that ruled out the possibility of voter fraud. In a press conference at the Interior Ministry on Saturday, Mahsouli put the number of the total votes cast in the elections at 39,165,191, suggesting the heavy turnout to be a victory for the nation and not for a specific candidate.
The figures bring to around 85 percent the total participation in the elections. The total number of people eligible to vote had been estimated to be over 46 million. While officially pronouncing Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as the winner of the presidential elections with a whopping 24,527,516 votes, Mahsouli dismissed claims that the elections were rigged.
"No violations that may have influenced the vote have been reported, and we have received no written complaint," he said in response to a question posed by an Italian reporter. 
At the moment, there are two comments, posted anonymously, beneath this report on the Press TV Web site. They read:
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:43:04 GMT
the world is laughing at you

Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:36:19 GMT
Corrupt.
Comments on other posts on Press TV's Web site have been dominated by supporters of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, but have also included similar criticism of the results and suggestions of fraud.
These comments were left beneath an article on Press TV's site about the country's Supeme Leader praising the election:
Abadani Lover
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:10:03 GMT
That was a fantastic theater Mr. Leader. Hopefully similar theater we could stage in Paradies.
Marianne
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:17:24 GMT
ZR If you love Iran so much, why you live in london?
ZR, London
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:01:21 GMT
Mr Mousavi should with dignity accept that he lost the election.The way he campaigned with his loud supporters, he actually encouraged and motivated millions of ordinary Iranians go to vote, just to make sure all the hard work of the last 30 years to keep the WEST out of Iran politics is not wasted and the elected president represents them.Lets us move together supporting the president to sort out the economic, social,legal and other problems in IRAN. God Bless IRAN.
Another thread on the Press TV site, of comments on an article declaring that Mr. Ahmadinejad had won a "Landside" [sic] victory, showed the tensions between supporters of the two main candidates, visible on the streets of Tehran earlier this week, continuing online today:
Ali hasaner
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:23:01 GMT
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said that many important things to all of the world. the other leaders must be shame themselves. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is a real leader, he loves his nation,his country and the others love money. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is a perfect leader
Untraceable
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:18:13 GMT
Mousavi supporters please submit your applications to embassies of various Zionist countries. You will most certainly receive your freedom in such countries.
Untraceable
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:17:02 GMT
Mousavi supporters, can go to western media outlets and listen to the enemies of Iran for proper news.

mary cooper
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 13:04:57 GMT
congratulations President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. he is a so brave and good leader and also he is very talented. he loves his people and they love him too.
Mark Bolan
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 12:49:53 GMT
Bravo is good to see thaqt Iranian people have not and will not give in to the western blackmails and have keep the man who is most qualified to defent the right of their country where it belongs. At the wheel of the country.
Ali
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 12:42:11 GMT
Democracy? Republic? This government has elected itself...a great puppet show
Mad Iranian
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 11:32:56 GMT
it doesnt matter if Ahmadinejad cheated to win i dont care if all votes counted in 5o seconds or if he he photoshopped missile launches he is the better leader and must lead. we are at war this is no time for democracy. We need to finish our nuclear missiles and be like north korea.
Reza
Sat, 13 Jun 2009 10:13:19 GMT
Are you people high or just uneducated, brainwashed people? A.) The ballots are done by hand in Iran, not electronic and somehow they have counted the majority of the votes this fast?! B.) Iran is not a real democratic country, the president has no real power. This is a joke and so are the majority of the delusional people that are commenting.

        
June 15: Updates on Iran's Disputed Election
        
Election Day: Updates on the Voting in Iran
        
Ahmadinejad Was Slapped by General, Leaked Cable Says
        
Beirut Festival Pulled Film to Spare Ahmadinejad's Feelings
        
Why Ahmadinejad Voted Against Occupying the U.S. Embassy in 1979

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%) Iran; iranian presidential election; Mahmoud Ahmadinejad; mir hussein moussavi; Middle East; News; world

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (89%); ALI KHAMENEI (88%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011



347 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; BATS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Twins Rookie Wins, But Is Sent Back To the Minors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The way he dominated, Anthony Swarzak certainly pitched like a major leaguer Saturday, and he probably will be again. 
 For now? 
 Back to the minors, kid. 
 In an odd twist, the Minnesota Twins optioned Swarzak, a 23-year-old rookie, to Class AAA Rochester after he scattered four hits in seven innings in a 2-0 victory over the Chicago Cubs. Harsh crowd, that Twins management. 
 Swarzak (2-2) struck out six and walked one while earning his first win since beating Milwaukee last month. So why is Swarzak, a right-hander, being sent to the minors? To make room for catcher Jose Morales, who was recalled from Rochester. 
 ''I've got no doubts he can pitch in the big leagues, and he proved that today,'' Manager Ron Gardenhire said. ''But it has to be done. We need a player here. I've got too many injuries.''
 The Twins played short-handed Saturday, with outfielders Michael Cuddyer (right index finger) and Denard Span (dizziness) unavailable.
 Swarzak, who has a 3.90 earned run average in five starts, acknowledged that he was disappointed but said he had an idea the move was coming.
 ''It's definitely disappointing but I kind of figured it would happen,'' he said. ''I thought I could pitch at this level but now I know. I just need to go to Rochester and work on consistency.''
 Swarzak consistently hit the strike zone. Jason Kubel homered and the Twins hung on after the Cubs threatened in the ninth.
 Hunter Hits Three Homers as Angels Win
 Torii Hunter hit three consecutive solo homers, Kendry Morales and Jeff Mathis also went deep, and the Los Angeles Angels defeated the San Diego Padres, 9-1. It was Hunter's first three-homer game in the majors. He was left on deck when Bobby Abreu struck out to end the bottom of the eighth inning, costing him a chance at tying the big league record for home runs in a game. ... Willie Bloomquist had three hits and three R.B.I., and Billy Butler had three hits and drove in two runs, as the Kansas City Royals defeated the Cincinnati Reds, 7-4. (AP)
 Pujols Hits Two Homers in Cardinals' Victory
 Albert Pujols hit two home runs, and the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Cleveland Indians, 3-1. Pujols's 27th game with multiple home runs helped Brad Thompson (1-2) get his first win since St. Louis's final game in 2008. ... Cody Ross hit a home run and two doubled, leading the Florida Marlins over the Toronto Blue Jays, 6-5. A day after hitting his third grand slam of the season in a 7-3 win, Ross drove in two runs. He is batting .343 over his past 27 games. (AP)
 Pirates Find Rare Power 
 Freddy Sanchez hit a grand slam and Adam LaRoche added a solo home run as the Pittsburgh Pirates used a rare power surge to defeat the Detroit Tigers, 9-3. The Pirates' total of 36 home runs is the second lowest in the majors. It was the first time since May 25 that they had a multihomer game and only the eighth instance in 62 games this season. (AP)Three Rays Homer in Victory Over Nationals
 Ben Zobrist and Gabe Gross homered during a seven-run sixth inning, and Tampa Bay beat the Washington Nationals 8-3. Carlos Pena hit his 20th home run for Tampa Bay. The defending American League champion Rays moved two games over .500 for the first time this season. ... Brian Roberts had four hits, including a double that highlighted a six-run rally in the seventh inning, as the Baltimore Orioles beat the Atlanta Braves, 8-4. (AP)
 First Japanese Female Pro Loses
 Eri Yoshida, a 17-year-old pitcher who is Japan's first female professional baseball player, struggled with her control and took her first loss. Yoshida created a stir when she signed a contract in December. Some speculated that the move was a publicity stunt to generate interest in the four-team Kansai Independent League, which has struggled amid Japan's worsening economic conditions. The 5-foot, 114-pound Yoshida has appeared in only three of the Cruise 9's 22 games this season. (AP) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ross Gload helped Florida to a 6-5 win in Toronto, the Marlins' seventh straight win over the Blue Jays.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE CASSESE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (59%); CHICAGO CUBS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (65%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (51%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (51%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (65%); ONTARIO, CANADA (65%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); OHIO, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009



348 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; TALLY COMINGS & GOINGS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: New Destinations

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
New York continues its historic role of taking in immigrants and disgorging residents to the rest of the country. But information from the Internal Revenue Service, which keeps track of the yearly movements of taxpayers and their families, shows how the outward flow has slowed and how destinations are changing. Here is a look at domestic migration into and out of New York City. 
 Metropolitan area The net flow from the city to first-ring suburbs like Nassau and Bergen Counties is down modestly. The flow to second-ring suburban counties like Suffolk and Morris, however, is down more sharply. The exodus to some faraway counties in the region continued to grow through 2007.
 Florida The state remains a major destination, but the flow has slowed, especially to South Florida counties favored by retirees. Some lower-cost counties, such as Brevard, continued to grow.
 Georgia and the Carolinas Charlotte and Atlanta were fast-growing destinations for city residents, picking up some of the Sun Belt migration that Florida lost.
 Rust Belt and college towns Northern metropolitan areas and college towns were among the few places that sent more people to the city than the reverse, probably for
 Puerto Rico The movement between the city and Puerto Rico has reversed: After many years of net movement to the island, migration to New York has climbed sharply. ''The economy in Puerto Rico has gotten really bad,'' said Angelo Falcon of the National Institute for Latino Policy.
 Silicon reversal A rush to Silicon Valley in the 1990s was followed by a reversal after the dot-com bust in 1999. The flow reversed again more recently.

GRAPHIC: MAPS
 CHARTS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMMIGRATION (78%); COUNTIES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); SUBURBS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



349 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: The Balladeer Of Just Getting By

BYLINE: By CRAIG MARKS

 BODY:
THE last time the Nashville square peg Todd Snider wound up in jail, he did what any self-professed folksinger would do: he wrote a song about it. 
 ''Last spring, I got arrested in Greencastle, Ind., for pot,'' Mr. Snider said amiably, seated in an East Village bar during a trip to New York. ''Most people don't care if a singer smokes weed. But this one kid did. The sheriff ended up telling me he was the Barney Fife of the town. I was more embarrassed about getting caught than doing it. I'm getting in my 40s. This kind of stuff is getting old. I thought maybe it was behind me a little bit. And I think it is.'' 
 He shrugged and sipped at some wine. ''Probably.'' 
 The song is ''Greencastle Blues,'' a tragicomic confessional that anchors Mr. Snider's fine new album, ''The Excitement Plan,'' which was released last week on Yep Roc. Produced by the Grammy winner Don Was in a recession-efficient two days -- ''there's no bread to dilly-dally anymore,'' Mr. Was said -- Mr. Snider's ninth studio record marks a relatively calm patch in a volatile career and should finally help secure his place alongside peers like Steve Earle as one of music's great populist, if not popular, singer-songwriters. ''A lot of this record is about how poor people sometimes cope with pain and hardship,'' Mr. Snider said. ''A little drugs here, a little sex here, a little denial there.'' 
 Beginning in 1994 with his twangy, alt-country debut, ''Songs for the Daily Planet,'' for Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville label, Mr. Snider, now 42, has spent the better part of the past 15 years writing pin-sharp, big-hearted, devilishly funny songs that empathize with an unusually elastic assortment of protagonists: hard-working, beer-drinking 9-to-5ers, for sure, but also pop-culture bogeymen (Mike Tyson, Marilyn Manson), weirdo jocks (the pitcher Dock Ellis, who said he once tossed a no-hitter while high on LSD), even the guy who once mugged Mr. Snider at gunpoint near his home in East Nashville, Tenn. 
 His affinity for underdogs hasn't earned him much commercial success. Only ''The Devil You Know'' (New Door) cracked the Billboard Top 200, selling 30,000 copies in 2006, and his current tour itinerary comprises small clubs and early-bird slots at festivals. But he has made a strong impression on critics and fellow musicians. His songs have been recorded by Nashville stars like Gary Allen and Garth Brooks, and his champions (and sometime mentors) include John Prine, Jerry Jeff Walker and Kris Kristofferson. They, like Mr. Snider, are roots-music bohemians who built modest but passionate followings through their masterly sketches of small-town down-and-outers. 
 ''Todd's as poetic a writer as anybody,'' Mr. Kristofferson said. ''But it doesn't seem crafted with him. It just comes out naturally. The words move you emotionally in the direction he wants, but without you feeling conscious of it.''
 Mr. Was, who has produced albums for Bob Dylan, Randy Newman and Bonnie Raitt, said that Mr. Snider is ''so good and direct with language that you don't get hung up in wordiness. And because he's so entertaining, you don't necessarily notice how deep he's going.'' 
 Mr. Snider's songs are often most wrenching, and funniest, when addressing his on-again, off-again battles with drug addiction. He first entered rehab in 1997, after ''taking morphine for, like, 60 days in a row,'' he said. ''I've always had back trouble, and I thought: 'This stuff is good for when I feel sick. I can't feel my body. This is good for everything.' '' He'd just finished his third album, ''Viva Satellite'' (Margaritaville), a failed attempt to muscle up and cross over to rock radio. 
 ''That was the first time I got hooked on hard drugs,'' said Mr. Snider, who, after leaving home at 16, had lived sofa to sofa, bouncing from his hometown of Portland, Ore., to Austin, Tex., and then to Memphis, where he drew the attention of a songwriter with a connection to Mr. Buffett. 
 ''I kind of checked out there for a few years,'' he said. ''I'd do shows and just make up songs. I don't even remember making 'New Connection,' '' he said of his 2002 album on Mr. Prine's Oh Boy label.
 There's certainly nothing unique about a musician abusing drugs, and Mr. Snider's habits, and the erratic gigs and flaky reputation that resulted, probably doomed what little chance he might have had at mainstream success. Still, few have ever written about their weaknesses with as much grit and humor. At the end of the 12-step memoir ''Long Year,'' from 2000's ''Happy to Be Here'' (Oh Boy) Mr. Snider goes straight from meeting to barstool:
 I was telling everybody how strange my day had been
 They said brother all you need is another shot
 So I threw one down and said thanks a lot
 As I thought to myself well here we go again.
 In 2003, after the death of a close friend, he fell into addiction again. This time he got hooked on Oxycontin and checked himself into a treatment facility for the second time. His 2004 album, ''East Nashville Skyline'' (Oh Boy), is the Americana equivalent of Richard Pryor's post-self-immolation concert film, ''Live on the Sunset Strip.'' It opens with Mr. Snider mordantly noting that ''it's too late to die young now,'' includes a song called ''Sunshine'' that somehow works a whistling interlude into a tale of a failed suicide and wraps with a knowing cover of Guy Lombardo's ''Enjoy Yourself'' (''it's later than you think''). 
 ''All my heroes -- John, Kris, Jerry Jeff, Shel Silverstein, Billy Joe Shaver, Randy Newman -- have that gallows humor,'' Mr. Snider said. Topped off by a timely culture-war singalong pitting ''conservative Christian, right-wing Republican, straight white American males'' against ''tree-hugging, peace-loving, pot-smoking, porn-watching'' hippies ''like me,'' ''East Nashville Skyline'' earned Mr. Snider the best reviews of his life. Regardless, a few months later, he was back in rehab.
 In conversation Mr. Snider has a warm, sleepy-eyed presence, easy to laugh whether the topic is Paris Hilton or the many psychiatric diagnoses he's received over the years. (''When there's a new thing going around, they say I have it.'') He freely discusses his struggles, with the caveat that he ''doesn't want to seem at all like I'm bragging about it.'' On ''Greencastle Blues,'' atop a downy bed of piano and pedal steel guitar, Mr. Snider's cottonmouth drawl is more sheepish than boastful:
 It hurts to lean back in these handcuffs
 Like nine kinds of shame turned to rage
 As a younger man I might have put up a fight
 But I feel like a fool at my age.
 ''I'm certain I don't have any answers,'' Mr. Snider said, ''and I want the people who listen to my songs to know that. If someone learns something from me, that would be their fault.'' Does he consider himself an addict? He paused, then replied: ''I don't know if I go for the 'always an addict' thing. I still smoke weed. And I don't feel guilty about it. But the hard drugs haven't pulled me in a long time.''
 He added: ''I don't go to any groups. I have a shrink. I talk about her on my new album.'' (''I went to see this therapist and she said/do the best you can do/I was hoping for something more specific.'') ''She didn't go for that song,'' he said.
 ''The Excitement Plan'' is a gentle, peaceable sounding record, loose limbed and ragged despite its big-name producer and the top-gun session musicians he employs. (The drummer Jim Keltner and the guitarist Greg Leisz have backed everyone from John Lennon to Wilco.) Mr. Snider originally set out recording his new material with the same scruffy neighborhood pals who'd played on ''East Nashville Skyline'' and ''The Devil You Know,'' but he decided to change horses midstream. 
 ''I was listening to Kris Kristofferson's 'This Old Road,' '' the 2006 album produced by Mr. Was, ''and I went in and told all the people who help me: 'I don't like what I have here. I like this here. What should I do?' '' The Kristofferson album felt ''smaller and funkier,'' Mr. Snider said. ''And a couple of days later someone said Don was open to working with me. I was surprised he even knew who I was.''
 Mr. Was, it turned out, had been a fan for years, since stumbling upon a Snider performance on ''Austin City Limits.'' ''It was pretty raw,'' Mr. Was recalled admiringly. His principal goal in producing ''The Excitement Plan'' was to ''stay out of the way of the lyrics and just capture that unique charm of his.'' 
 The record industry executive Bob Mercer, a longtime friend who signed Mr. Snider to his first deal at Margaritaville Records, said that he's rarely seen him in such a good frame of mind.
 ''He has less to be worked up about these days,'' Mr. Mercer said. ''He's making a decent living. He's not living on someone else's couch. He's devoted to his wife,'' the painter Melita Osheowitz, whom Mr. Snider met in rehab in 1997. ''He's doing what he loves to do, the way he loves to do it. You can hear it in his songs. ''
 Mr. Snider is disinclined toward making any blue-sky self-appraisals. The chorus from the new album's opening track is about as close as he'll come: ''A slim chance is still a chance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The folksinger, Todd Snider, left and below, runs with some pretty respected company, performing with John Prine, center, and, bottom, with Kris Kristofferson, on guitar, at a 2005 ceremony celebrating Mr. Kristofferson's induction into the Country Music Hall of Fame. (Others onstage included Porter Wagoner, far left
behind Mr. Kristofferson, Bill Anderson
next to Mr. Snider, the record executive Jim Foglesong
next to Mr. Foglesong, Vince Gill.) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CATHY MILLS
JOHN CARRICO
 DONN JONES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); SONG WRITING (89%); MUSIC (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); ARRESTS (78%); LSD (78%); PARTY DRUGS (77%); RECORD RELEASES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); FESTIVALS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



350 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Penguins' Stanley Cup Validates Aggressive Changes

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN and STU HACKEL

 BODY:
Before the start of the Stanley Cup finals between the Pittsburgh Penguins and the Detroit Red Wings, much was made of the resemblance to the finals between the Edmonton Oilers and the Islanders 25 seasons earlier, the last time the defending champions met the team they had defeated the previous year for the Cup. This year's finals, it was said, could be another instance of the new league power dethroning the old one.
 As long as General Manager Ray Shero can manage the salary cap, the Penguins are certainly poised to become an N.H.L. powerhouse, with a group of under-25 talents led by the stars Sidney Crosby and Evgeni Malkin, who was named the most valuable player of the postseason; role players like Jordan Staal, Tyler Kennedy and Maxime Talbot, who scored both of Pittsburgh's goals in Game 7; the blue-line spark plug Kris Letang; and the athletic and poised goaltender Marc-Andre Fleury. But the parallel may not hold up. Detroit is not like the end-of-the-line Islanders, who stuck too long with older players. 
 The contributions this spring of young Red Wings like Darren Helm, Jonathan Ericsson, Valtteri Filppula and Justin Abdelkader, alongside those of the established stars Henrik Zetterberg, Pavel Datsyuk, Johan Franzen and Niklas Kronwall, who are still very much in their primes, indicate that the Red Wings will probably not be fading soon.
 Having these two entertaining teams at the game's summit for the second consecutive year validated the sweeping rule changes by the N.H.L. after the lockout season of 2004-5. One element that became clear during the Penguins' Cup-clinching victory Friday night was how much their style of play had changed since a coaching switch in February. 
 Replacing Michel Therrien, who favored a more defensive style, with Dan Bylsma, who put in an aggressive system designed to use his skilled players, meant Pittsburgh ended up looking very much like Detroit.
 ''I think the game is meant to be played aggressively and in your face,'' Bylsma said after Game 7. ''When you can dictate the pace of the game and where it's played, you can put teams back on their heels. That's a fun way to play, and, I think, the right way to play.''
 Red Wings Coach Mike Babcock spoke before the game of how much the quality of play had improved. ''When you think from the lockout to where we are now, how far we've come, it's a fantastic thing,'' he said.
 Because most N.H.L. teams try to copy the formula of the Stanley Cup champions, the Penguins' victory could signal a continued movement from the defense-oriented tactics that dominated the N.H.L. after the Devils won the Cup in 1995.
 Yet a curious shift in the officiating during the finals loosened the zero-tolerance posture on obstruction penalties that referees had used for the last four seasons. Infractions like hooking, holding, tripping and interference were staples of the dead-puck era. They were among the tactics used to restrain skill and to shift the game's delicate balance in favor of defense.
 In the six games of last season's finals, 30 obstruction penalties were called. Through six games this year, only 16 had been called. Four more were called in Game 7.
 The players and coaches had no problem with the officiating. It will be interesting to see if this slackening of rigorous enforcement signals a new standard for next season.
 In the end, the season was successful for the N.H.L. in many ways. Attendance and television viewership rose, especially in Chicago and Boston, traditional hockey cities that had been moribund for years. In Washington, interest sharply increased, spurred by the infectious excitement over Alex Ovechkin and a charismatic supporting cast. And the enthusiasm of the Carolina fans, who continued their tradition of standing for the duration of playoff games, demolished preconceived notions of indifference to hockey in the South.
 The N.H.L. also had success on the international front. The league, which only a year ago had been victimized by the plummeting value of the dollar and was feeling the pressure from economically empowered European clubs, is back to its old stance with regard to the expired international-player transfer agreement. Sensing it has the upper hand, the N.H.L. wants to pay roughly the same low fee it used to pay for players signed away from European clubs. 
 But the league still faces big problems. An alarming number of concussions from checks to the head led to calls for the N.H.L. to penalize all such hits, something the top developmental league, the Ontario Hockey League, has done. The N.H.L. Players' Association was among those voicing concern. But the general managers' refusal to respond to those concerns ensures that the controversy will continue.
 The league also faces the economic weakness of several Sun Belt teams, led by the situation in Phoenix. A judge's ruling on the Coyotes' bankruptcy case is expected soon, with the prospect of a protracted battle between the N.H.L. and the billionaire James L. Balsillie, who is seeking to move the team to Hamilton, Ontario. 
 And finally, the problem of the long season bleeding into June is bound to persist next season because of the Olympic break. The N.H.L. does not see it as an issue, pointing to rising playoff television ratings. But few experts say that playing hockey on the cusp of summer is a way to win over new fans in the United States.
 Perhaps the best way to win over fans is to have the Penguins and the Red Wings -- exciting, creative and sportsmanlike teams from traditional hockey cities -- in the Stanley Cup finals, battling to the last second in the seventh game before a roaring crowd. It cannot get any better than that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Penguins after defeating the Red Wings in Game 7 on Friday to win the Stanley Cup.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (94%); DETROIT RED WINGS (94%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



351 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONNECTICUT DINING OLD GREENWICH; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Sparing Some Frills And the Wallet

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
WHEN Rafael Palomino opened Palomino in Old Greenwich in 2007, it was a fairly typical upscale Greenwich-area restaurant.
 Then came the recession. 
 A businessman as well as a chef, Mr. Palomino -- who also has two restaurants in Port Chester and one in New Haven -- changed course.
 Two months ago, Palomino became Greenwich Tavern, where the menu is more everyday accessible, not special-occasion fancy, and the prices are more affordable. Most first courses are in the $10 to $13 range, most entrees $18 to $24. (Formerly, lunch dishes were up to $34, dinner entrees to $42). 
 The new menu is also more down-to-earth, with no foie gras or chanterelle-crayfish risotto, but more tavernesque dishes like a rib-eye white bean chili (fiery, with lots of beef bits), sizzling hot in a little covered casserole.
 What hasn't changed -- to my delight -- is the consistently high quality of the ingredients and cooking style. The food is still excellent, with creative renderings of familiar dishes, like fried oysters (ever-so-lightly breaded) served in their shells on a tiny bed of angel hair carbonara with bacon and tomato in a piquant lime-tomato relish. 
 When asked if I could order the ramp butter risotto as a small plate instead of the entree it was listed as, the waiter checked with the kitchen and said yes. Like the chili and a number of other small plates, the risotto came in its individual piping hot casserole. Half the entree price, it was certainly ample -- and cooked flawlessly. Creamy firm-grained rice, full of ramps, peas and other veggies, it made a perfect second course.
 Other dishes that more than lived up to their promise were crispy calamari (light and plentiful) with a spicy chipotle tomato dip; a variety of succulent raw oysters served with a Champagne mignonette, smoky tomato sauce and, curiously, a minuscule bottle of Tabasco sauce; and shrimp and bay scallop ceviche (in a piquant citrus marinade with charred tomato and cucumber).
 The freshest of yellowfin tuna tartare was no slouch either; it came with chopped tomato and avocado on a blanket of thinly sliced cucumbers. Another small plate -- an unusual shrimp dumpling that combined andouille and mushrooms with the shrimp -- was tucked into a bamboo steamer and served with a soy ginger dip. Although the sausage tended to overwhelm the shrimp, the combination of textures was pleasing.
 Of the seven salad choices, three of us decided to share a warm spinach salad -- an abundance of greens in a bacon dressing with crisp bacon pieces on top.
 While bouillabaisse was a bountiful sea garden of mussels, shrimp, clams, lobster, scallops and fish, there was surprisingly little broth, and what there was lacked distinctive briny flavor. But all other main courses were exemplary -- from the seared magret duck breast (medium-rare slices, as ordered, in a dried cherry-pomegranate reduction, with sweet potato puree) to the absolute perfection of braised Angus short ribs, with saffron mashed potatoes and wild mushrooms. Even a side of rosemary Parmesan fries, popping out of a paper cone, met the enthusiastic approval of the demanding frites expert at our table. 
 Desserts were a delight, especially the flourless chocolate cake with an echo of Kahlua, the tangy Key lime pie and the bourbon pecan tart. (Only the house-made bourbon pecan ice cream was a grainy letdown.) And a cheese platter with four different North American artisanal cheeses (blue, goat, raw cow's milk, triple creme) made a grand finale to an exceptional meal. 
 Greenwich Tavern may have lowered its prices, but its standards remain high. 
 Greenwich Tavern
 1392 Putnam Avenue (U.S. 1)
 Old Greenwich
 (203) 698-9033
 greenwichtavern.net
 EXCELLENT
 THE SPACE A free-standing building, with entrance and bar in center, small dining room to the left and main dining room on the right. A large Americana painting graces a wall the width of the dining room. Wheelchair access to front entrance.
 THE CROWD Mixed ages, mostly from 30s upward, in neat-casual attire. Well-trained waiters. 
 THE BAR Full bar. Large wine list, especially strong on French and West Coast selections. Bottles begin at $34; by the glass, $8 to $13. For a ''tavern,'' the beer list is limited; it probably should be augmented.
 THE BILL Lunch and dinner menus are the same. Small plates, sandwiches and salads: $8 to $16. Entrees: $16 to $32. Desserts: $8 to $9 (cheese platter $16). Most major credit cards are accepted. 
 WHAT WE LIKE Fried oysters, raw bar oysters, crispy calamari, rib-eye white bean chili, yellowfin tuna tartare, warm spinach salad, shrimp and bay scallop ceviche; ramp butter risotto, bouillabaisse, braised Angus short ribs, seared magret duck breast; flourless chocolate cake, Key lime tart, cheese platter, bourbon pecan tart. 
 IF YOU GO Lunch: Sunday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner: Sunday through Wednesday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Thursday through Saturday, 5 to 11 p.m. Reservations accepted. Valet parking in lot to the left of the restaurant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKEOVER: Greenwich Tavern was the upscale Palomino until April. Left, rib-eye white-bean chili and creme fraiche.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); MENU PRICES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



352 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: Cosmos Of Kushner, Spinning Forward

BYLINE: By ANDREA STEVENS

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
 A FEW minutes before the fifth preview of Tony Kushner's new play, a three-and-a-half-hour family drama of operatic heft with a matching title -- ''The Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Capitalism and Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures'' -- Mr. Kushner, looking like a slightly unnerved graduate student, addressed the audience from the stage. Some actors, he said, would be holding pages of new dialogue. ''Yesterday was my day off,'' he told the audience, ''and I did a lot of rewriting.''
 ''At the end,'' he added, ''there will be a talk back. You'll give me your opinions, and afterward we'll all go out and have breakfast.'' 
 The joke seemed to sum up the state that Mr. Kushner, 52, has found himself in here at the Guthrie Theater, where since April 18 (proclaimed Tony Kushner Day by the mayor of Minneapolis) he has been at the drumbeating heart of a festival occupying the Guthrie's three theaters and various ancillary sites, celebrating him and his work. That includes the 1993 Pulitzer Prize-winning epic ''Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes''; the 2001 meditation on Afghanistan ''Homebody/Kabul''; and the 2003 musical (with Jeanine Tesori) ''Caroline, or Change,'' which is being given its first Guthrie production as part of the event.
 Sixteen years after ''Angels'' established him as a major force in the theater, Mr. Kushner continues his surgery on the American body politic in his new play, uncovering with a prophet's zeal the myths that no longer sustain and the corruption at their heart. Perhaps alone among American playwrights of his generation he uses history as a character, letting its power fall on his protagonists as they stumble through their own and others' lives. And like a prophet, he wants his listeners to think hard about the world and their place in it. 
 ''The Intelligent Homosexual,'' with a cast of 11, including the Kushner veterans Kathleen Chalfant, Linda Emond and Stephen Spinella, is directed by Michael Greif, who in 1991 directed Mr. Kushner's early play ''A Bright Room Called Day'' at the Public Theater in New York. 
 The new play seemed to have struck a personal chord with at least one member of the audience. In the first intermission in the McGuire Proscenium Stage theater, he turned to his companion and said: ''Welcome to my family. Everyone talks at once, but the one who talks the loudest is heard.''
 A week earlier, in a brief telephone interview, Mr. Kushner had described ''The Intelligent Homosexual'' -- the story of a 75-year-old man who calls his grown children together to tell them he plans to kill himself -- as ''a shocking play.''
 ''I've never done anything like it before,'' he said, sounding excited. ''It's going to be very fresh.''
 Scott Rudin, the theater and film producer, helped finance the production at the Guthrie. Because of his involvement -- Mr. Rudin says he is a ''friend'' of the play -- there is the chance that it could go to Broadway in the 2009-10 season. Given that possibility, national publications, except for Variety, ended up not reviewing it. 
 The review in that trade publication called the play a success and said it is ''packed with a level of complexity, sophistication and understanding that distinguishes it as a potentially important new American work.'' Though ''performed by lesser talents,'' the critic added, it ''would likely be an unbearable mess.'' Most local reviews, which ranged from highly favorable to mixed, said the play still needed work. 
 For his part, Mr. Kushner said in a telephone interview in early June: ''I am at this point completely unsure about where the play should go. I want it to go to New York, and I'd love to see it on Broadway if that's the right place for it, but I don't know that yet. I'm still working on the play.''
 At the talk back after the preview, as about 150 people lingered in the theater, Mr. Kushner answered a question about why he thought he had to rewrite.
 ''This is the newest thing I've ever had onstage,'' he said. ''Usually it's at least a year or two before an audience sees it. I'm not a fast writer, although this time I was.'' Later he said that he planned to spend part of the summer and fall rewriting, and that a workshop would follow at the Public Theater. 
 Speaking of the time constraints, he said: ''I was asked three years ago if I would do a festival with the Guthrie. I was working on an Abraham Lincoln script for Steven Spielberg, and I said yes. I said yes to an opening-night date for a play I hadn't written yet. Which I will never do again. I don't regret the life-altering work I've done on the Lincoln script, but everything has been difficult because of Lincoln.'' (The film is still in development.)
 ''And yet writing a play this way, I didn't have a chance to second-guess myself, and I say things in the play that are different for me. I didn't have the time to say, 'Oh, my God, I can't say that!' I think there's a certain degree of emotional violence in this play. But if you've written a play, and it doesn't frighten you, then it's boring.''
 Whether the Guthrie's ambitious artistic director, Joe Dowling, knew what to expect when he commissioned Mr. Kushner to write a new play, he does now. An actor and former director of the Abbey Theater in Dublin, Mr. Dowling, who has run the Guthrie, a leading regional theater, for 14 years, explained why he wanted Mr. Kushner to be the center of what he hopes will be the first of a number of Guthrie festivals: ''He uses theater in a way that has always thrilled me, to make a stink, but to make us feel.''
 As part of the festival (which runs through June 28; celebratekushner.com), Mr. Kushner received an honorary doctorate on May 21 at the University of Minnesota, and there are rosters of speakers, symposiums and classes on the Kushner cosmos. The festival also took over the nine-story, midnight-blue new Guthrie Theater, perched above the Mississippi River. The three year-old $125 million complex by the French architect Jean Nouvel is a mash-up of the silolike grain mill form -- old mills are visible in several directions -- and the emphatic power of transport: a dramatic boxcar shape juts from the building like a bolt from Zeus, aiming toward the river.
 Inside, Mr. Kushner reigns: from the gift shop on the ground floor, with its mugs, T-shirts (''The Intelligent Homosexual,'' one says), books and posters; to the revival of ''Caroline, or Change,'' staged by the Guthrie's director of movement, Marcela Lorca, in the Wurtele Thrust Stage; to ''Tiny Kushner,'' an evening of one-acts in the small Dowling Studio at the top of the building, directed by Tony Taccone, the artistic director of the Berkeley Rep in California. (That production was scheduled to close on Saturday.)
 Mr. Taccone is another longstanding Kushner associate, as is Oskar Eustis, the artistic director of the Public Theater. Both men were co-artistic directors of the Eureka Theater Company in San Francisco, which commissioned ''Angels in America.'' The play was presented in 1992 at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, where it was directed by Mr. Eustis with Mr. Taccone, before it went to Broadway under the direction of George C. Wolfe. Mr. Eustis was also present at the Guthrie talk back.
 The new play's subjects are of course Kushnerian: birth, death, God, family, betrayal, homosexuality, change, fear of time -- the ''tick by tock towards the end,'' as one character describes it -- the value of labor and its current devaluation and the loss of faith in former national ideals that no longer seem to function or even to apply. Familiar Kushner tropes surface and submerge: capitalism, socialism, fascism, Trotskyites, the working class. And since this is a family play, society's larger forces of politics, economics, religion, race, class and sexuality are rendered on a personal level. (Mr. Kushner, for the record, is a strong proponent of gay marriage and is married to the writer Mark Harris.)
 Humor is as much a part of the whole as everything else, starting with the title, adapted from a George Bernard Shaw treatise, ''The Intelligent Woman's Guide to Socialism, Capitalism, Sovietism and Fascism,'' that Mr. Kushner found in his grandmother's library, and a Mary Baker Eddy text about Christian Science, ''Science and Health With Key to the Scriptures.'' There is even a local joke. One character says to another, ''I moved to Minneapolis to save my marriage.'' It brought a laugh.
 The play, which takes place mainly in a Brooklyn brownstone in 2007 (''I wanted to set it before this last summer and the election,'' Mr. Kushner said), tells the story of the Italian-American Marcantonio family (for which Mr. Kushner has created an elaborate family tree extending back to the 1830s and Italy). The father, Gus (played by Michael Cristofer), a retired longshoreman, Communist, radical union organizer and translator of Horace in his spare time, claims that he has Alzheimer's disease and that he has decided to kill himself, after a failed attempt. Gus summons his three children, including Ms. Emond's and Mr. Spinella's characters, who are gay. To add to the various sexual and racial combinations, Gus's younger son (Ron Menzel) is married to a Korean-American woman, and the husband of Mr. Spinella's character is African-American. Ms. Chalfant portrays Gus's sister, a koan-spouting former Carmelite nun who once followed Mao and has come to a stop in a New Jersey housing project because ''the poor reveal the truth of life.''
 In an interview several days after the preview performance Mr. Kushner talked further about ''The Intelligent Homosexual'': ''Some of the play came as a result of the stagehands' strike'' -- on Broadway in 2007 -- ''from discussions with fellow artists, many of whom had not a drop of sympathy for Local 1, for what these guys were striking for, and the incredible thought that workers are expendable. It's not magic. It's work, it's labor. There are ways of thinking about economic justice and the whole question of what really creates value in a society.
 ''Also, I've always been fascinated by families. In families you see how sloppy, in terms of boundaries, and intimate they are in the most beautiful and troubling ways.''
 Returning to the question about the meaning of the play, he said: ''As someone who wants to be a progressive person, a person on the left, an active person, I'm negotiating my middle-age position with the politics of revolution, what I believe of revolutionary versus evolutionary change. I have a profound difficulty coming to terms with revolutionary means. The changes we need at this point to make the planet survive can be done through a functioning democracy, a much more agreeable way to have change happen. But complacency can very easily settle in.
 ''The question that Gus posits to us is: Will we ultimately be able to make the changes we need to make, or is it simply the case that life under a free-market, capitalist society is merely tolerable? And if so, should one spare oneself the terror of becoming a revolutionary?
 ''I don't know the answer.''
 At the talk back Mr. Kushner spoke of Ms. Emond's character, a labor lawyer. She ''carries the heart of the play,'' he said, ''and I'm still trying to work out what that heart is. I'm still trying to understand the play.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At top, Tony Kushner's ''Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Capitalism and Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures'' in rehearsal: from left, the director Michael Greif, far left, and Mr. Kushner speaking with the actor Ron Menzel
the actor Michael Cristofer, center, between Mr. Kushner, left, and Mr. Greif
and Mr. Greif, right, consulting with Mr. Cristofer, occupied with notes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG LASSIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Above, Michael Esper, left, as a hustler, with Stephen Spinella in the premiere of ''The Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Capitalism and Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures.'' Left, Mr. Kushner, foreground, and the director Michael Greif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL DANIEL
 CRAIG LASSIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); WRITERS (66%); INTERVIEWS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (69%)

TITLE: Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Capitalism and Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures, The (Play); Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Capitalism and Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



353 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER REVIEW CONNECTICUT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Just Like on Broadway, a Family Bound by Greed

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
There's no doubt that Stella, the elderly matriarch of a wacky Texas family, is not dead yet. In fact, she's fiercely interested in the world around her. When told about a local death that may have been a suicide, she asks, ''What was he doing cleaning his gun on his wedding night?'' 
 But she is not the soul of Horton Foote's comedy ''Dividing the Estate,'' now in a riotously funny and pricelessly observant production at Hartford Stage. Stella's impatient, greedy daughter Mary Jo is. And Hallie Foote, the playwright's daughter and his work's primary interpreter, embodies Mary Jo in ways that can only be called comic genius (even her body language is funny), just as she did on Broadway. 
 Let's make that clear at the outset. While many productions outside New York love to compare themselves to and ride the coattails of the original Broadway productions, this one is the real thing. What you get at Hartford Stage are 12 of the original cast's 13 actors; the same director (Michael Wilson, artistic director of Hartford Stage); and most of the same behind-the-scenes people, including the set, costume, lighting and sound designers.
 Yes, the missing 13th actor is Elizabeth Ashley, who brought Stella to life in the 2007 Primary Stages production and last year on Broadway, where ''Dividing the Estate'' received a Tony Award nomination for best play. Now Lois Smith has taken on the role. The two actresses do give off very different onstage energies, but the essence of Stella remains the same. And Ms. Smith, whose career is so distinguished that it's hard to know where to begin (maybe with the original production of ''Orpheus Descending'' or her first film, ''East of Eden''?), is every bit as imposing and decisive as her predecessor.
 The greatest and saddest difference between last fall's production and this one is that Mr. Foote is no longer with us. He died in March at the age of 92, in Hartford, where he had been preparing his nine-play ''Orphans' Home Cycle,'' still scheduled to open this fall.
 On the surface, his final Broadway success may seem like a rather ordinary story. But entwined in the net of familiar family battles about tradition versus profit, wayward sons, difficult daughters and petty complaints, we find raw, wrenching, eye-opening evocations of human dissatisfaction, egocentricity and determination. Thank goodness it's a comedy.
 It's hard to decide whether Mary Jo is lovably detestable because she's so transparent and greedy and we're not, or because she's so transparent and greedy and so are we, but we hide it better. As one character lies dead upstairs, the body still warm, Mary Jo is on the verge of tears. ''Bob!'' she sobs, turning to her husband. ''How much do you think our share will be?''
 She and Bob (James DeMarse) live in Houston, 55 miles from the family home, and have secret financial problems. They have come for dinner with their two barely grown daughters, Emily and Sissie (Jenny Dare Paulin and Nicole Lowrance), one of whom is already divorced. An offhand example of Mr. Foote's brilliant observational skill is the sight of the daughters, bored to tears, elbows on the dining room table, trying desperately to find something interesting in the older generation's conversation. 
 Mary Jo's brother, Lewis (the charming Gerald McRaney), is a relative good-for-nothing, who is always borrowing money from the estate. At the moment he needs $10,000, and his siblings suspect that it is because he is romantically involved with a teenage girl and has to pay her family hush money.
 The good daughter is Lucille (Penny Fuller) who, with her son, known as Son (Devon Abner), lives with Stella. To earn their keep, they manage the family property. Mr. Abner, by the way, is Ms. Foote's husband.
 The servants in Mr. Foote's play are written as richly as their employers are. Among them, the standout is Doug (Arthur French), 92, who has worked for the family since he was a child. Very sensitive about his age, Arthur is upset that he is not allowed to serve the dinner just because his hands shake. When he collapses and a doctor is called, he makes himself quite comfortable in a living room chair. When he's feeling better and Stella suggests, ''You go help in the kitchen, Doug,'' he replies, ''No, thank you.'' 
 ''Dividing the Estate'' has a decidedly unhappy ending. Everything turns out terribly for everybody, turning events into an economic and psychological horror story. And most of the characters couldn't deserve it more.
 Texans will tell you that Texas is not the South, but it's not the North either. So imagine Emily's horror when a dark secret about her great-great-grandfather comes up in conversation. She can barely spit out the words: ''Are we part Yankee, Mama?'' They are.
 ''Dividing the Estate,'' by Horton Foote, is at Hartford Stage, 50 Church Street, through July 5. Information: (860) 527-5151 or hartfordstage.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEGACY: Arthur French in a scene from Horton Foote's ''Dividing the Estate.'' Below, Hallie Foote, left, the playwright's daughter, and Lois Smith, who joined 12 actors from the original Broadway cast. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); WRITERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Dividing the Estate (Play); Dividing the Estate (Play)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



354 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Beware of Neighbor's Home Foreclosure

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to selling your house or planning your next home equity line of credit, being a nosey neighbor could very well pay off.
 That's one implication of a recent report from the Center for Responsible Lending, a consumer advocacy group based in Durham, N.C. 
 The report, which was released in May, focuses on the ripple effects of home foreclosures, and suggests that homeowners who are concerned about their home's value should watch for signs of trouble among their closest neighbors. 
 This year alone, it says, foreclosures will cause an estimated 69.5 million nearby homes to suffer price declines averaging $7,200 per home. The loss in property value could total $500 billion.
 The resulting loss in financial flexibility is significant. ''Homeowners who had counted on using their home equity to finance their retirement, cover tuition costs, start a small business, or pay medical bills in many cases no longer have this option,'' the report said.
 Ellen Schloemer, the executive vice president of the Center for Responsible Lending, said that over the next four years, foreclosures would affect an estimated 91.5 million neighboring homes. 
 ''As the foreclosure crisis continues to worsen, the contagion is spreading,'' Ms. Schloemer said. ''You can't just say those foreclosures are hurting someone else.''
 The rate of home foreclosures has rise sharply since 2007, when the first subprime adjustable-rate mortgages began resetting to higher rates. But even borrowers with good credit have defaulted on their loans as the economy has faltered.
 According to the Mortgage Bankers Association, an industry trade group, about 1.4 percent of all first mortgages entered foreclosure in the first quarter of this year, a 20 percent jump from the fourth quarter of 2008, and a record high.
 The center's report relied on forecasts from Credit Suisse, which said late last year that about nine million homes would probably go into foreclosure in 2009 to 2012. The center also used late 2008 data from the Mortgage Bankers Association to estimate this year's foreclosure figures (about 2.4 million homes). 
 Two earlier reports released by the Center for Responsible Lending examined the spillover effects of the mortgage crisis. But this year it relied on new research about how a foreclosure affects neighborhood home values -- specifically, a 2008 study that includes researchers at Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored agency, and the University of Connecticut.
 This study found that homeowners who lived within 300 feet of a foreclosed residential property experienced a drop of 1.3 percent in home value; those living 300 to 500 feet of the foreclosed home typically see a drop in value of 0.6 percent. 
 John P. Harding, a professor at the University of Connecticut's Center for Real Estate and Urban Economic Studies, and an author of the study, said the properties that are most affected by a foreclosure are the ones close enough to see the peeling paint, broken windows and overgrown lawns that often accompany such situations.
 The worst time for immediate neighbors to sell their homes, refinance or cash out some of their home equity, Mr. Harding said, is just before the bank takes title to the property, because that is the point of greatest neglect. 
 After that point, Mr. Harding said, many lenders will at least maintain the property's appearance well enough to attract prospective buyers.
 OF course, the best time to try to sell a home or convert equity into cash is when neighbors are on sound financial footing, though it may not be easy to determine.
 Job loss is the biggest cause of mortgage default, according to industry experts, so if a neighbor becomes unemployed, you should probably start your own clock ticking.
 For those living outside the immediate vicinity of the foreclosure, but still in the neighborhood, Mr. Harding said home values typically bottom out around the time when the bank actually sells the home. 
 ''My advice would be to try to ride that out, not panic, and know that this is the peak effect from lower-priced competition,'' he said.
 Mr. Harding said that banks, municipalities and the federal government are justified in financing foreclosure-avoidance programs, but not if they help homeowners just barely afford to stay in their homes. In such situations, neighboring homes could still see values drop. 
 ''You want to offer help at a level at which people can still do critical maintenance to the property,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: 30, 15 and Adjustable Rate Mortgages (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); TUITION FEES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



355 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Online

 BODY:
Podcast Scheduled to appear this week are Kate Walbert, author of ''A Short History of Women''; Paul M. Barrett on books about the financial crisis; Motoko Rich with notes from the field; and Jennifer Schuessler with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, is the host. The podcast is also broadcast in New York as ''Inside The New York Times Book Review'' on Fridays at 6:05 p.m. on WQXR 96.3 FM. 
 Paper Cuts The Book Review's blog covers books and other forms of printed matter.
 First ChaptersExcerpts from ''A Short History of Women,'' by Kate Walbert; ''Commencement,'' by J. Courtney Sullivan; and other books.
 Books Update E-MailReceive a selective overview of new book reviews and features every Friday.
 nytimes.com/books

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); PODCASTING (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



356 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUMMER RITUALS BOAT CLUB; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Where Blue-Collar Boys Hoist a Sail, and a Beer

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
AS the commodore at the College Point Yacht Club, Tony Tondo holds a lofty title, suggesting a man in a blazer dining with moneyed members in an oak-paneled room. Instead, Mr. Tondo can usually be found in the club's gritty boatyard, wearing jeans and construction boots and operating a forklift.
 The club, which lies near the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge and next door to a sewage treatment plant, is a world removed from exclusive yacht clubs in suburban seashore towns where expensive vessels with designer furniture bob in the water. At the College Point club, in Queens, some of the boats floating in the water are held together with the help of half a hardware store.
 Commodores at more upscale clubs oversee regattas and sailing schools and leave the hard work of preparing boats for a season on the water to the hired help, but there is no hired help at Mr. Tondo's club. So it falls to the commodore himself to field a flood of calls from impatient members clamoring for their boats to be taken out of winter storage and lowered off the club's bulkhead into the East River's murky waters. 
 This time of year, Mr. Tondo is busy commanding a fleet of tractors, boat trailers and hydraulic boat lifts.
 ''We're what you call a working man's yacht club,'' said Mr. Tondo, 60, a retired auto parts dealer, as he stood at the controls of a huge boat lift the other day. He looked at his watch and barked at several other members helping him prepare the next boat to be launched.
 ''Once the tide drops, we can't put these boats in anymore -- not deep enough,'' he said.
 The yacht club lies behind an unmarked entrance off Powell's Cove Boulevard at the northern end of 126th Street near La Guardia Airport and the city's jail complex on Rikers Island. The club's neighbor to the west is an unsightly expanse of craggy piers. To the east is the Tallman Island sewage plant; members live with the smell.
 The clubhouse is an old barge that was run aground years ago. At the end of a gravel and asphalt yard is a tiki bar and a grill made from half an oil drum. The floating docks jutting out into the river provide 112 boat slips. 
 There are no fancy regattas, tennis courts or swimming pools. The club, which 12 men started in 1950 by erecting a shack, is more blue-collar than blue blazer. 
 Many of the 88 members are retired civil servants and tradesmen who fix up used motorboats and spend weekends chasing bluefish and drinking Budweiser. The bar is open to the public, but is usually filled with raucous members comparing pensions and overtime pay and making fall hunting dates. The bathroom is distinguished by a urinal bearing a decal of Osama bin Laden -- for target practice. A retired police officer is the bartender, and retired firefighters work in the kitchen. 
 The fees are in keeping with the club's unassuming profile. Members, who are expected to help maintain the club and work at events, pay $950 in annual dues for the first two years. After that, the annual dues drop to $350. Slip fees, based on a boat's length, are $42 a foot. 
 ''Keeping a 30-foot boat here might cost you about $1,200 for the season, all told,'' said Larry Samuelson, 55, of Flushing, Queens, a truck mechanic and a 20-year member whose grandfather, Fred Fuchs, was the club's first commodore. ''You're not going to find that anywhere else.''
 As the club's current commodore, Mr. Tondo sometimes does put on a crisp white officer's uniform to do the fancy yacht club thing. He did so recently for the club's season-opening flag-raising ceremony, complete with a toy cannon, a bugler and bagpiper. 
 The members built the place themselves, using castoff material including asphalt from a resurfacing of the Long Island Expressway and concrete ripped from Queens Boulevard. A patio was built with the help of a member who drives a cement truck and delivered leftover cement.
 ''You have a lot of guys here who are carpenters, electricians -- we're all pretty handy -- so everyone pitches in,'' said Artie McCrossen, a retired New York City firefighter. 
 Kim Cody, 57, a 15-year-member, has been spending the days priming his powerboat, named Dance With Me.
 ''Nobody's nose is up in the air or anything like that,'' said Mr. Cody, a retired detective from Queens. ''We're not afraid to get our hands dirty -- that's the best part about it.''
 There are about a half-dozen boating clubs around Flushing Bay, a location that provides easy access to Long Island's North Shore, City Island and Westchester County. 
 The College Point marina blends well with the neighborhood's working-class character. One member, Bob Hanft of Middle Village, Queens, a shift supervisor for Con Edison, said he has never gotten used to the term yacht club, which he considers ostentatious and imprecise. He will not wear the club's shirt around his neighborhood. 
 ''I'm a working-class kid from Queens -- I just can't say 'yacht club,' you know what I mean? I can't bring myself to say it,'' said Mr. Hanft, a four-year member.
 Steve Brimbert began renting a slip at the club this spring as an inexpensive way to continue boating during tough economic times.
 ''I had no idea a club like this existed,'' said Mr. Brimbert, who works in the garment industry and used to rent a slip at a more expensive marina on Long Island. ''It's not like some of these snooty clubs where the members have their million-dollar boats. It's not pretentious, and it's one of the few clubs that allow you to work on your own boat, instead of having to hire their own expensive mechanic.''
 Like a skilled restaurant valet, Mr. Tondo has developed a system to use every available space to squeeze the boats on the club's tiny lot. ''That's why they keep me around here,'' he joked, while sliding a trailer under a 28-foot Rinker powerboat. ''I'm the only one who can get the boats back out, in the spring.'' 
 He towed the Rinker toward the water past a decommissioned New York New YorkPolice Department patrol vessel and a powerboat named Bite Me Twice. The powerboat safely eased into the water, Mr. Tondo went to fetch another.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANCHORS AWEIGH: A member, Paul Woolhizer, right, helped get a craft in the East River. Tony Tondo, far left, the club's commodore, raised the flag on the season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); BOAT BUILDING (78%); MARINAS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); TENNIS (73%); SPORTS (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



357 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; SAVE OR SPLURGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco on ...

BYLINE: By JAIME GROSS

 BODY:
On $250 a Day
 SLEEP Carved out of a 1920s hotel, the new Hotel Vertigo in Nob Hill (940 Sutter Street; 415-885-6800; www.hotelvertigosf.com) recently emerged from a cinematic makeover inspired by the Hitchcock classic. If the orange-and-white color scheme doesn't make you dizzy, the spiraled mirrors and corkscrew staircase might. The 102 rooms are spacious, a loop of ''Vertigo'' (which was partly filmed here when it was the Empire) plays in the lobby and, during the check-in, you'll receive a list of the best places in the city to ''get vertigo,'' including Twin Peaks and the top of Coit Tower. Cost for a double: $139. 
 EAT Have a feast for under $20 in the multiethnic Mission District, where there's a taqueria on nearly every corner and the great burrito debate rages on. Top contenders include: El Farolito (three locations in the city, including 2950 24th Street; www.elfarolitoinc.com), a local chain that serves brick-size ''super burritos'' stuffed with half an avocado for $6; El Metate (2406 Bryant Street; 415-641-7209), where the chile verde pork burrito ($5) shares star billing with the fish tacos and watermelon agua fresca; and Papalote (3409 24th Street; 415-970-8815; www.papalote-sf.com), where the lard-free beans and tofu mole are a godsend for vegans. Burritos and agua fresca for two: about $15. 
 SHOP For quirky objects with an artistic bent, check out Park Life (220 Clement Street; 415-386-7275; www.parklifestore.com), a shop that carries a well-curated cache of art books, clever housewares and limited-edition objects -- like salt and pepper shakers inscribed with the words ''cocaine'' and ''heroin'' ($125). If that's not creative enough, pop into the adjacent gallery, which features monthly exhibitions of emerging artists from San Francisco and beyond (priced from $20 to $2,000). Silk-screened T-shirt by the Bay Area artist Tucker Nichols: $28.
 PARTY San Francisco has its share of slick, stylish nightclubs, but if you crave something smaller and more intimate, head to Little Baobab (3388 19th Street; 415-643-3558; www.littlebaobab.com), a tiny Senegalese restaurant that hosts one of the city's liveliest dance parties Wednesday through Saturday nights. Revelers of all ages and ethnicities pack the sweaty, shoebox-size dance floor, while D.J.'s spin an eclectic mix of world music (salsa one night, Afrobeat and dancehall the next). The ginger and hibiscus-based drinks are strong and cheap, $5 and $7. Cover charge is $5 on weekends. Cost for entrance and cocktails for two: $24. 
 SAVE Postcards may feature painted Victorians, but San Francisco also has stunning new architecture. Start your design tour at the de Young Museum in Golden Gate Park (50 Hagiwara Tea Garden Drive; 415-750-3600; www.deyoungmuseum.org; $10 entry), wrapped in a perforated copper skin by Herzog & de Meuron. Its observation tower offers jaw-dropping views. Nearby is the California Academy of Sciences (55 Music Concourse Drive; 415-379-8000; www.calacademy.org; $25 entry), a ''green'' steel-and-glass building designed by Renzo Piano that contains three museums: an aquarium, a natural history museum and a digital planetarium. And downtown, there's the Contemporary Jewish Museum (736 Mission Street; 415-655-7800; www.thecjm.org; $10 entry), housed in a 1907 brick building converted by Daniel Libeskind into a glittering blue steel monument. Total cost of admissions: $45.
 TOTAL COST $251.
 On $1,000 a Day
 SLEEP From its large contemporary art collection to its miles of dark wood and thick-pile carpeting, the St. RegisSan Francisco (125 Third Street; 415-284-4000; www.stregis.com/sf) embodies refinement and good taste. It offers a gigantic spa and fitness center, a buzzing lobby bar and a pair of noteworthy restaurants: Vitrine, popular with power-lunchers, and Ame, which serves creative sashimi like kampachi with sea urchin sauce. The 260 guest rooms feel like luxury apartments with their white oak cabinetry, creamy marble baths and, on floors 17 and higher, eye-popping views. Centrally situated in SoMa, the hotel is a quick walk to the shops of Union Square and a fleet of cultural offerings including the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. On weekends, ask for a room facing away from noisy Mission Street. Cost for a deluxe room with a city view: $429.
 EAT Incongruously set amid tacky strip clubs in North Beach, Coi (373 Broadway Street; 415-393-9000; www.coirestaurant.com) is a magnet for culinary thrill seekers. The chef Daniel Patterson has garnered a bevy of honors since opening his restaurant (pronounced ''kwa'') in 2006, including two Michelin stars. The main dining room has a Zen aesthetic -- grass-cloth walls, backlit panels of rice paper -- and seats just 29. The mind-expanding 11-course tasting menu ($125) offers flourishes of molecular gastronomy, like the gelatinous orbs of milk-and-honey that pop in your mouth, and unexpected flavors like ice cream flavored with Douglas fir needles. Reservations are required in the dining room but not in the adjacent lounge, where dishes can be ordered a la carte. Tasting menu for two: $250.
 SHOP Fashionistas could blow their budget on a single frock at Philanthropist (3571 Sacramento Street; 415-441-1750; www.philanthropistboutique.com) and still feel good about it. That's because 100 percent of profits are donated to local charities like the Raphael House, a shelter for homeless families. Hot items include $260 jeans by the cult-brand Goldsign and an ''I SF'' gold pendant necklace by the local designer Zoe Chicco for $590. Since it's a recession, pick up a Lucite bangle bracelet inscribed with feel-good slogans like ''Philanthropy is beautiful.'' Cost: $132.
 PARTY The Slow Food movement has invaded cocktail hour. Witness the industrial-chic bar in Haight-Ashbury, Alembic (1725 Haight Street; 415-666-0822; www.alembicbar.com), where bartenders tinker with dehydrators and smokers to crisp garnishes and flavor syrups. A similar approach can be found at Clock Bar, a new bar in the Westin St. Francis (335 Powell Street; 415-397-9222; www.michaelmina.net/clockbar), where the mixologist (don't say bartender) Marco Dionysos whips up fresh fruit purees and housemade grenadine, and raids the kitchen of the restaurant next door, Michael Mina, for exotic ingredients like Peruvian aji amarillo peppers. Cost for two English Breakfast cocktails, made with Earl Grey-infused gin topped with frothy egg whites and a black tea liqueur: $26.
 SPLURGE Wondering what to do with those heirloom carrots and watermelon radishes you fondled over at the Ferry Plaza farmer's market? Find out at Tante Marie's Cooking School (271 Francisco Street; 415-788-6699; www.tantemarie.com). One of the city's oldest culinary institutes, it began full-time operation in 1979 and offers a Simple Seasonal Cooking class built around organic and farm-fresh ingredients. It also offers courses in global cuisine, from Thai to Moroccan. Five-hour cooking class: $185.
 TOTAL COST $1,022.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A meal for two at Papalote in the Mission District comes to about $15. For vegetarians, the restaurant even offers lard-free beans and tofu mole.
 The St. Regis San Francisco is centrally located in the SoMa district. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (85%); MEAT FREE DIETS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); COCAINE (50%); HEROIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



358 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1981 words

HEADLINE: Too Poor to Make the News

BYLINE: By BARBARA EHRENREICH. 
Barbara Ehrenreich is the author, most recently, of ''This Land Is Their Land: Reports From a Divided Nation.''

 BODY:
THE human side of the recession, in the new media genre that's been called ''recession porn,'' is the story of an incremental descent from excess to frugality, from ease to austerity. The super-rich give up their personal jets; the upper middle class cut back on private Pilates classes; the merely middle class forgo vacations and evenings at Applebee's. In some accounts, the recession is even described as the ''great leveler,'' smudging the dizzying levels of inequality that characterized the last couple of decades and squeezing everyone into a single great class, the Nouveau Poor, in which we will all drive tiny fuel-efficient cars and grow tomatoes on our porches.
 But the outlook is not so cozy when we look at the effects of the recession on a group generally omitted from all the vivid narratives of downward mobility -- the already poor, the estimated 20 percent to 30 percent of the population who struggle to get by in the best of times. This demographic, the working poor, have already been living in an economic depression of their own. From their point of view ''the economy,'' as a shared condition, is a fiction. 
 This spring, I tracked down a couple of the people I had met while working on my 2001 book, ''Nickel and Dimed,'' in which I worked in low-wage jobs like waitressing and housecleaning, and I found them no more gripped by the recession than by ''American Idol''; things were pretty much ''same old.'' The woman I called Melissa in the book was still working at Wal-Mart, though in nine years, her wages had risen to $10 an hour from $7. ''Caroline,'' who is increasingly disabled by diabetes and heart disease, now lives with a grown son and subsists on occasional cleaning and catering jobs. We chatted about grandchildren and church, without any mention of exceptional hardship. 
 As with Denise Smith, whom I recently met through the Virginia Organizing Project and whose bachelor's degree in history qualifies her for seasonal $10-an-hour work at a tourist site, the recession is largely an abstraction. ''We were poor,'' Ms. Smith told me cheerfully, ''and we're still poor.''
 But then, at least if you inhabit a large, multiclass extended family like my own, there comes that e-mail message with the subject line ''Need your help,'' and you realize that bad is often just the stage before worse. The note was from one of my nephews, and it reported that his mother-in-law, Peg, was, like several million other Americans, about to lose her home to foreclosure. 
 It was the back story that got to me: Peg, who is 55 and lives in rural Missouri, had been working three part-time jobs to support her disabled daughter and two grandchildren, who had moved in with her. Then, last winter, she had a heart attack, missed work and fell behind in her mortgage payments. If I couldn't help, all four would have to move into the cramped apartment in Minneapolis already occupied by my nephew and his wife. 
 Only after I'd sent the money did I learn that the mortgage was not a subprime one and the home was not a house but a dilapidated single-wide trailer that, as a ''used vehicle,'' commands a 12-percent mortgage interest rate. You could argue, without any shortage of compassion, that ''Low-Wage Worker Loses Job, Home'' is nobody's idea of news.
 In late May I traveled to Los Angeles -- where the real unemployment rate, including underemployed people and those who have given up on looking for a job, is estimated at 20 percent -- to meet with a half-dozen community organizers. They are members of a profession, derided last summer by Sarah Palin, that helps low-income people renegotiate mortgages, deal with eviction when their landlords are foreclosed and, when necessary, organize to confront landlords and bosses. 
 The question I put to this rainbow group was: ''Has the recession made a significant difference in the low-income communities where you work, or are things pretty much the same?'' My informants -- from Koreatown, South Central, Maywood, Artesia and the area around Skid Row -- took pains to explain that things were already bad before the recession, and in ways that are disconnected from the larger economy. One of them told me, for example, that the boom of the '90s and early 2000s had been ''basically devastating'' for the urban poor. Rents skyrocketed; public housing disappeared to make way for gentrification. 
 But yes, the recession has made things palpably worse, largely because of job losses. With no paychecks coming in, people fall behind on their rent and, since there can be as long as a six-year wait for federal housing subsidies, they often have no alternative but to move in with relatives. ''People are calling me all the time,'' said Preeti Sharma of the South Asian Network, ''They think I have some sort of magic.'' 
 The organizers even expressed a certain impatience with the Nouveau Poor, once I introduced the phrase. If there's a symbol for the recession in Los Angeles, Davin Corona of Strategic Actions for a Just Economy said, it's ''the policeman facing foreclosure in the suburbs.'' The already poor, he said -- the undocumented immigrants, the sweatshop workers, the janitors, maids and security guards -- had all but ''disappeared'' from both the news media and public policy discussions.
 Disappearing with them is what may be the most distinctive and compelling story of this recession. When I got back home, I started calling up experts, like Sharon Parrott, a policy analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, who told me, ''There's rising unemployment among all demographic groups, but vastly more among the so-called unskilled.'' 
 How much more? Larry Mishel, the president of the Economic Policy Institute, offers data showing that blue-collar unemployment is increasing three times as fast as white-collar unemployment. The last two recessions -- in the early '90s and in 2001 -- produced mass white-collar layoffs, and while the current one has seen plenty of downsized real-estate agents and financial analysts, the brunt is being borne by the blue-collar working class, which has been sliding downward since deindustrialization began in the '80s. 
 When I called food banks and homeless shelters around the country, most staff members and directors seemed poised to offer press-pleasing tales of formerly middle-class families brought low. But some, like Toni Muhammad at Gateway Homeless Services in St. Louis, admitted that mostly they see ''the long-term poor,'' who become even poorer when they lose the kind of low-wage jobs that had been so easy for me to find from 1998 to 2000. As Candy Hill, a vice president of Catholic Charities U.S.A., put it, ''All the focus is on the middle class -- on Wall Street and Main Street -- but it's the people on the back streets who are really suffering.''
 What are the stations between poverty and destitution? Like the Nouveau Poor, the already poor descend through a series of deprivations, though these are less likely to involve forgone vacations than missed meals and medications. The Times reported earlier this month that one-third of Americans can no longer afford to comply with their prescriptions. 
 There are other, less life-threatening, ways to try to make ends meet. The Associated Press has reported that more women from all social classes are resorting to stripping, although ''gentlemen's clubs,'' too, have been hard-hit by the recession. The rural poor are turning increasingly to ''food auctions,'' which offer items that may be past their sell-by dates. 
 And for those who like their meat fresh, there's the option of urban hunting. In Racine, Wis., a 51-year-old laid-off mechanic told me he's supplementing his diet by ''shooting squirrels and rabbits and eating them stewed, baked and grilled.'' In Detroit, where the wildlife population has mounted as the human population ebbs, a retired truck driver is doing a brisk business in raccoon carcasses, which he recommends marinating with vinegar and spices. 
 The most common coping strategy, though, is simply to increase the number of paying people per square foot of dwelling space -- by doubling up or renting to couch-surfers. It's hard to get firm numbers on overcrowding, because no one likes to acknowledge it to census-takers, journalists or anyone else who might be remotely connected to the authorities. At the legal level, this includes Peg taking in her daughter and two grandchildren in a trailer with barely room for two, or my nephew and his wife preparing to squeeze all four of them into what is essentially a one-bedroom apartment. But stories of Dickensian living arrangements abound. 
 In Los Angeles, Prof. Peter Dreier, a housing policy expert at Occidental College, says that ''people who've lost their jobs, or at least their second jobs, cope by doubling or tripling up in overcrowded apartments, or by paying 50 or 60 or even 70 percent of their incomes in rent.'' Thelmy Perez, an organizer with Strategic Actions for a Just Economy, is trying to help an elderly couple who could no longer afford the $600 a month rent on their two-bedroom apartment, so they took in six unrelated subtenants and are now facing eviction. According to a community organizer in my own city, Alexandria, Va., the standard apartment in a complex occupied largely by day laborers contains two bedrooms, each housing a family of up to five people, plus an additional person laying claim to the couch.
 Overcrowding -- rural, suburban and urban -- renders the mounting numbers of the poor invisible, especially when the perpetrators have no telltale cars to park on the street. But if this is sometimes a crime against zoning laws, it's not exactly a victimless one. At best, it leads to interrupted sleep and long waits for the bathroom; at worst, to explosions of violence. Catholic Charities is reporting a spike in domestic violence in many parts of the country, which Candy Hill attributes to the combination of unemployment and overcrowding. 
 And doubling up is seldom a stable solution. According to Toni Muhammad, about 70 percent of the people seeking emergency shelter in St. Louis report they had been living with relatives ''but the place was too small.'' When I asked Peg what it was like to share her trailer with her daughter's family, she said bleakly, ''I just stay in my bedroom.''
 The deprivations of the formerly affluent Nouveau Poor are real enough, but the situation of the already poor suggests that they do not necessarily presage a greener, more harmonious future with a flatter distribution of wealth. There are no data yet on the effects of the recession on measures of inequality, but historically the effect of downturns is to increase, not decrease, class polarization. 
 The recession of the '80s transformed the working class into the working poor, as manufacturing jobs fled to the third world, forcing American workers into the low-paying service and retail sector. The current recession is knocking the working poor down another notch -- from low-wage employment and inadequate housing toward erratic employment and no housing at all. Comfortable people have long imagined that American poverty is far more luxurious than the third world variety, but the difference is rapidly narrowing.
 Maybe ''the economy,'' as depicted on CNBC, will revive again, restoring the kinds of jobs that sustained the working poor, however inadequately, before the recession. Chances are, though, that they still won't pay enough to live on, at least not at any level of safety and dignity. In fact, hourly wage growth, which had been running at about 4 percent a year, has undergone what the Economic Policy Institute calls a ''dramatic collapse'' in the last six months alone. In good times and grim ones, the misery at the bottom just keeps piling up, like a bad debt that will eventually come due.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); FAMILY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); DIABETES (62%); FORECLOSURE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



359 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 6542 words

HEADLINE: Getting Up to Speed

BYLINE: By JON GERTNER. 
Jon Gertner, a frequent contributor to the magazine, often writes about business and the environment.

 BODY:
This is a story not about Amtrak but about trains, and the problem with any story about trains in America is that you often find yourself thinking about Amtrak, and you often find yourself thinking about how nice it would be if you weren't thinking about Amtrak. This is especially true when you're actually riding on Amtrak, which happened to be the case one morning in March when I boarded the Pacific Surfliner in downtown Los Angeles for a 500-mile trip, mostly up the coast, to Sacramento. Anyone who lives in California can tell you that this is folly: other ways of traveling from Los Angeles to Sacramento are quicker and less frustrating and not much more expensive. You can fly in 90 minutes for around $100. Or you can drive in six hours for less than $50 in gas. For $55, my Amtrak journey was scheduled to take at least 12 hours 25 minutes. 
With any luck, I would arrive there by 9 p.m. And it was fairly obvious to me that I would need some luck, because my ticket to Sacramento had not bought me a train ride, exactly, but a train-bus-train ride. In San Luis Obispo, I would get off the Surfliner and board an Amtrak bus; in San Jose, I would get off the bus and board a different train to Sacramento. There was little room for error: a slow train and I would miss the bus; a slow bus and I would miss the second train. It's true I could have taken other trains to Sacramento instead, but these had their own drawbacks. The Coast Starlight, for instance, which runs north along the Pacific Coast from L.A., doesn't involve any buses, but travel time is an estimated 13 hours 44 minutes. What's worse, the Starlight, a k a the Starlate, is a train of such legendary unreliability that it is not so much a train as an anti-train. In the past it has been known to run 11 or 12 hours behind schedule and post an on-time percentage in the single digits. A third travel option promised to take about eight hours over a more direct inland route. To leave at a reasonable hour, though, I would need to take a bus from L.A. to Bakersfield, catch a train called the San Joaquin and travel to Stockton, then ride another bus from Stockton to Sacramento. So I opted for the train-bus-train combo over the bus-train-bus alternative.
 The Surfliner was scheduled to leave at 7:30 a.m., and as it happened we pulled out of the station only a minute late. I had two reasons for going to Sacramento. The first was to get a clearer sense of why a lot of people in California think it's necessary to build an entirely new passenger-rail system. The second was to see how they might do so. Since it was established in 1996, the California High Speed Rail Authority, an assemblage of train advocates and engineers, had been working out of offices in the capital to explore how the state could build a rail line from Los Angeles to San Francisco for $33 billion, with two additional branches -- costing billions more -- eventually extending to Sacramento in the north and San Diego in the south. It would not be an Amtrak operation but one owned by the state of California. Last November, state voters approved a $10 billion bond measure to get the project moving. Earlier this year, President Obama, who on a trip to France in April conceded he was ''jealous'' of European high-speed trains, submitted budget and stimulus plans that together allocated approximately $13 billion for high-speed rail over the next five years. It seems almost certain that at least some of that money, and perhaps a significant percentage of it, will go this fall to California's project, which is the most developed of any U.S. high-speed-rail plan. Ray LaHood, the U.S. secretary of transportation, told me recently that Californians ''are obviously way, way ahead of everyone else.'' In late May, LaHood rode on the French and Spanish high-speed-rail lines and met with European train companies that hope to sell their products to the United States.
 If it can get started, the California high-speed train would almost certainly be the most expensive single infrastructure project in United States history. And if it is completed, the train will go from L.A. to San Francisco in just under 2 hours 40 minutes and from L.A. to Sacramento in about 2 hours 17 minutes. Judging by the experiences of Japan and France, both of which have mature high-speed rail systems, it would end the expansion of regional airline traffic as in-state travelers increasingly ride the fast trains. And it would surely slow the growth of highway traffic. Other potential benefits are also intriguing: a probable economic windfall for several cities along the route, with rejuvenated neighborhoods and center cities; several hundred thousand jobs in construction, manufacturing, operations and maintenance; and the environmental benefits that come from vehicles far more efficient and far less polluting than jets, buses and cars. Apart from the breathtaking price tag, commentators often focus on the projected velocity of the California trains, on how they will reach an astounding 220 m.p.h. in some stretches near Bakersfield and will cover the distance from L.A. to the Bay Area at an average speed approaching 175 m.p.h. As someone who never understood the zealotry of hard-core train enthusiasts, I found the project's other selling points more compelling: center city to center city in a few hours without airport lines or onerous security checks. No bus connections. No traffic. And no counting on luck. Which is to say that high-speed trains are obviously about going fast, but when you think about it, they're just as much about time as speed.
 Once our Surfliner left the Los Angeles metro area, the stations slipped past slowly: Glendale, Van Nuys, Simi Valley, Moorpark, Camarillo, Oxnard. Two hours into the ride, near Ventura, we picked up the pace, and soon the train was zipping along the shoreline, first passing lemon groves and freshly plowed fields, then grasslands of wildflowers and scrub brush -- punctuated in places by a lone cypress -- that all sloped a hundred yards or so downhill toward the Pacific. On a plane at 30,000 feet or in a car on a highway whose inclines have been tamed and curves eased, you can forget the great sweep of California's topography. Rediscovering it on the Surfliner is something to say in its favor. On the other hand, you can also rediscover why you might rather fly.
 Somewhere in the midst of this desolate and gusty landscape we came to a dead stop. Ten minutes passed, then 20. There was a faint hum from the engines; a rocking motion from the wind. The train was about half full, and most of us looked at each other for clues. Eventually, two conductors walked up the aisle toward the engine car. Both were strapping on heavy work gloves. Something needed fixing outside, obviously, since we heard them descend to the tracks, followed by laughter and some alarming clanging noises. Across the aisle, a woman glanced at me nervously.
 When the conductors stepped back on board, they had satisfied looks. ''We threw some switches to get onto the sidings,'' one of them told me, catching her breath as she removed her work gloves. I hadn't realized that Amtrak employees who take tickets and wear crisp formal uniforms also tend to the tracks. But on the Surfliner, at least, they do.
 Several hours later, when we finally pulled into San Luis Obispo, it was early afternoon and we were running about 30 minutes late. Out on the station platform, a conductor informed us that a connection was around the corner: a shiny blue bus, emblazoned with an Amtrak California seal. A large crowd surrounded the bus driver, a big man who was loading luggage into the stowaway compartment. One by one he pointed to each of us and asked us to step forward, state our destination and hand over our suitcases. Apparently he had a system of arranging baggage in some kind of highly complex, reverse-chronological order. The process took him 30 minutes.
 Before he started the bus, the driver informed us that unless it was an emergency, we should not use the bathroom on board -- it was, he said, not ''really working, actually.'' The bus would be making a few stops, he said, including one in a place called King City, where we would have 15 minutes at a McDonald's. But we would not be permitted to go to the King City Taco Bell two parking lots over or to the King City Starbucks across the street. ''Sorry, guys,'' he said. Those places were too far away. ''We'll have to leave without you,'' he added sternly. A simple journey up the coast had turned into a class trip with the assistant principal. But as we got on the highway, I was mostly concerned about the time and wondering how I could possibly connect, four hours from now, with my second train.
 The Sacramento headquarters of the California High Speed Rail Authority occupy a suite of offices in a high-rise building a half-block from the state Capitol. That's where I sat down with Tony Daniels, a bluff, silver-haired Englishman who works as project director on the rail plan. When Daniels asked about my trip from Los Angeles the night before, I told him that our bus arrived in San Jose with seven minutes to spare. After a sprint through the station, I made it to a Sacramento-bound train that turned out to be surprisingly efficient. Daniels seemed amused. You should have taken the San Joaquin, he said; ''that's a nice train.'' Too bad ours isn't built yet, he added.
 Daniels helps coordinate the hundreds of engineers -- almost all of them private contractors at large firms -- working on the California high-speed project. He reports to an executive director named Mehdi Morshed, an engineer whose resume is filled with California transportation projects, as well as to a board of nine political appointees. After a few hours talking with Daniels and Morshed, I still couldn't gauge the mood in the rail-authority offices. The place seemed to have an air of both defeat and giddy optimism. The rail authority has never been especially popular; for years its cause has been criticized as a science-fiction dream and, more recently, a government boondoggle to dwarf all previous government boondoggles. Even for the less cynical -- editorial boards and legislators, mainly -- legitimate philosophical questions about its mission have never fully subsided. Can California really afford such a project? Shouldn't transportation dollars be spent instead on upgrading urban mass transit or commuter rail, both of which would also ease freeway traffic? Over the past decade, specific parts of the rail plan -- tunnels, mountain passes, stations, environmental impacts, costs, ridership estimates, the technologies needed, you name it -- have been challenged at nearly every turn by officials and citizens alike, as have the motives and wisdom of rail-authority board members and staff employees. All the while, the state's governors (Pete Wilson at first, then Gray Davis) endorsed the authority's existence but withheld full-throated support. And then suddenly last year, Arnold Schwarzenegger, who as governor had mostly displayed a ''benign indifference'' for the project, as the rail-authority chairman Quentin Kopp told me, revealed an extreme form of high-speed-train enthusiasm. Last fall Schwarzenegger agreed to put the $10 billion bond issue on the ballot, and to the surprise of many it won. When the recent federal stimulus plan offered the possibility of billions more for the California rail project, it was as if the perpetual losers in Sacramento won a huge talent contest they never expected to win.
 In a country with no real experience of bullet trains -- the Acela, which runs between Boston and Washington, doesn't exceed 150 m.p.h. -- it isn't immediately obvious what makes the systems so advanced and expensive. When I met with Daniels he took me through the ways a high-speed train differs from, say, the Surfliner. ''These are very powerful animals,'' he said of the vehicles that run in Europe and Asia. It's more accurate to think of them as lithe rather than brawny, however. They are light. Or as the French tend to say, the trains have a high power-to-weight ratio that allows them to attain terrific velocities. What's more, the newest high-speed designs do not depend on locomotives pulling or pushing a string of cars. Instead, powerful motors are distributed throughout the undersides of the train cars. Up above, the trains are delicate: the pantograph that touches an overhead electrical wire (the catenary) is far more sensitive than its equivalent on regular trains in order to maintain electrical contact at extreme speeds. Things are different on the ground too. Crossties are made from concrete and not timber, and rails are sometimes set on a concrete bed rather than a ballast of crushed stone. The alignment of the rails cannot involve tight curves or sharp turns -- because straighter track is faster, and faster track is the whole point. One of the most crucial distinctions with the trains, finally, is invisible: they have a signaling technology, called ''positive train control,'' that keeps tabs on the location of the trains in operation. If a train gets close to the one ahead of it, it slows down automatically -- or shuts down altogether if it gets too close. A big seismic tremor or act of sabotage trips the system, too.
 You can't plunk a bullet train down on an existing corridor. High-speed lines in Asia and Europe are, in the argot of transportation engineers like Daniels, ''dedicated lines without grade crossings.'' That means vast stretches of the routes are for high-speed trains only (no freight or commuter trains allowed) and are built so that anything crossing the train's path (local roads, highways, freight lines, white-tailed deer) must do so via overpass or underpass. Hence a virgin 400- or 500-mile track in California, in addition to its own construction, entails hundreds of massive construction projects in order to divert all sorts of cross traffic. A dedicated line also requires a secure fence on both sides of the tracks. Because it takes several miles to brake-stop a train barreling along at 200 m.p.h. -- French authorities consider drivers incapable of reacting quickly enough to stimuli at top speed -- fences are needed to keep cattle and curious kids from wandering near.
 As Daniels described his project, I tried to scribble down his to-do list, but that seemed almost hopeless. In addition to the current financing, the rail system will need tens of billions of additional dollars from the state, the federal government and private investors to actually be finished. In addition to track beds and rails and fences and trains and signals -- all built to withstand earthquakes -- a large power supply and vast new electrical system with substations every 30 miles will be needed. There will be as many as 24 passenger stations along the way, most of them built from scratch, while others, like Union Station in Los Angeles, will need to be expanded significantly to accommodate millions of new train riders every year. (A small but typical headache: Union Station is on the national register of historic places, which makes renovations and expansions especially fraught.) The train plan will also necessitate thousands of pages of environmental and public-review documents. And it will require an entirely new set of safety regulations from the Federal Rail Administration. The F.R.A. has largely focused on requiring trains to demonstrate crash worthiness, whereas in Europe and Asia the emphasis is on avoiding crashes. (There was a deadly high-speed-train accident in Germany in 1998, but in 45 years of operation in Japan, and in 28 years in France, there has never been a fatality on a high-speed train.)
 And these aren't even the biggest problems. The monumental difficulty of the California rail project is finalizing the route. An approximate plan has been approved, but over the next year the authority will pinpoint precisely where the train will run, down to the inch. Significant purchases of land will have to be made, and in some places the state might have to exercise eminent domain. At one point Daniels took me down into what he calls his war room, a large space with huge maps on the wall and thousands of pages of regulatory documents piled on tables. One thing you notice if you spend time with rail planners is that it's difficult to separate engineering concerns from economic and political issues. It's as if the relationship between these competing forces forms a set of interrelated mathematical equations; change one variable and you have to rework the entire calculus. One of the largest maps in Daniels's war room is of the 58 miles between Bakersfield and Merced. It's a stretch of pancake-flat farmland -- ''the train will just whistle here,'' Daniels said -- through which the lines of two freight railroads, the Union Pacific and the Burlington Northern Santa Fe, already pass. Both companies own strips of land bordering their own tracks that they can sell or lease. Union Pacific apparently isn't interested in the high-speed-rail authority's offers; Burlington Northern is. The Union Pacific route is a straight line; the Burlington route arcs between the towns. All told, the Burlington route is several miles longer, which leads to a dilemma. By law -- that is, according to the bond measure that authorizes the rail project -- the California train has to travel between San Francisco and Los Angeles in 2 hours 40 minutes. Adding distance might add too much time. Daniels showed me a printout of a computer model demonstrating how a particular German high-speed train, one of the best in the world, would do on the longer route. ''It comes in at 2 hours 39 minutes and 53 seconds,'' he said. ''That's too tight for me.'' It's possible the Germans (or other manufacturers) could build a souped-up train. Or it's possible the route could be shortened in other spots. It's also possible that a portion of the route elsewhere could be engineered with a lesser gradient that would permit greater speed. But that could require a longer tunnel -- and more money. And what about buying some farmland for a more direct route? Reduced time, but more money. And no doubt a political headache as well. ''It's tough,'' Daniels said, almost to himself, as he looked at the map. And this was just one segment.
 For the moment, it's fair to assume that the high-speed-rail project will be a vivid, 10-year nightmare for many engineers and Californians. On the positive side, the start of construction -- beginning, say, with all those grade crossings -- will instantly create thousands of jobs, a considerable boost given the state's double-digit unemployment rate. But it will disrupt dozens of communities and almost certainly raise the ire of many civic activists. If recent history is any lesson -- and you might consider Boston's ''Big Dig'' -- the train will likely encounter cost overruns, delays and perhaps even tragic accidents and corruption. Antagonistic politicians and environmental lawsuits may drive its costs even higher. And through it all there will be a lingering question: Is demand strong enough to support the projected annual ridership between Los Angeles and San Francisco of about 54 million passengers by 2030? Quentin Kopp, the chairman of the rail authority, told me that he thinks the estimates are accurate. ''But if we're off on that,'' he acknowledged, ''then we won't succeed.''
 Mehdi Morshed, the authority's executive director, doesn't really try to play down the risks. But he is certain that once the train is completed (in 2020, according to current estimates), it will never be second-guessed. It seems to amuse Morshed that everyone sees his group as dreamers, whereas he sees them as realists. The fundamental case made by his rail authority is that the stupendous cost of the rail plan is still tens of billions of dollars lower than the other option -- expanding the highways and airports to accommodate the state's population growth. ''It is one of those things that you can't avoid,'' Morshed said. ''It's just, when do you face it? We are a state that depends on high mobility. We move around. That's one reason the economy is vibrant. There was no physical way to expand without building a high-speed rail.'' It's the only choice, Morshed insisted again. ''And the longer we wait the more it will cost.''
 Just about everyone involved with the California rail project tends to make the point that, its huge expense notwithstanding, the state isn't attempting the hypothetical. There's some reality behind it. From the very start, various Japanese, German and French consultants have all found the state's plans to be sound. ''This is not a demonstration project,'' Daniels said. ''We don't want to produce anything that is not absolutely proven in Europe or Asia. No experiments.'' At some point soon, perhaps by 2012, the rail planners will start the procurement process, Daniels told me. The project calls for around 100 trains, each about 656 feet long, each holding 400 to 500 passengers and each costing $30 million to $35 million. Only five or six companies in the world can make such trains, and of them, only two at the moment -- Siemens in Germany and Alstom in France -- can build them to be reliably fast enough for the California corridor. It is too early to predict which company could make the most appealing bid; it's also premature to say whether some companies might team up to form a consortium, one that perhaps offers California a deal on trains, signaling, maintenance and electrical infrastructure. In any event, one of the most sophisticated trains in the world right now is the AGV (the letters stand for Automotrice a Grande Vitesse), which is designed and built by Alstom in France. The train was introduced at the beginning of 2008 as the successor to the TGV (Train a Grande Vitesse), France's high-speed workhorse that has been in operation through various upgrades since the first high-speed line opened in that country in 1981, connecting Paris and Lyon. On any given day, there are about 450 TGVs running in France and another three dozen TGV ''Eurostar'' trains that travel between Britain and the Continent.
 I went to see the AGV in early April. There is a single prototype at the moment, and it resides on a fenced-in railway siding in La Rochelle, an ancient, windswept city on France's Atlantic coast. The day before I traveled to La Rochelle, I had breakfast in a Paris cafe with Philippe Mellier, the president of Alstom Transport, and Francois Lacote, the head of Alstom's research and development efforts. Both men have already met with the California team, and for good reason: Lacote happens to be one of the primary and original architects of the French high-speed-train system. Mellier, who is his boss, referred to him, only half in jest, as ''the father and the mother of the TGV.''
 On his laptop, Lacote showed me charts and graphs relating to the origins of the French high-speed system. Judging by his experience, the rail network now considered the world's gold standard had some difficult early years. Japan was the first country to build a bullet train in the mid-1960s. ''For France, that was a kind of shock,'' Lacote told me. His country always prided itself on its trains, he said, and here was a technology that threatened its eminence. Lacote said that in the beginning there was great skepticism among government officials that a high-speed line for France was practical or necessary. Nevertheless, the French national railway agency, S.N.C.F., teamed up with Alstom to build the first TGV in 1972. It was a gas-powered test model that, according to Lacote, worked well enough to convince a handful of important politicians that the idea was viable. ''The president of France, Georges Pompidou, a few months before he died in 1974, decided to launch the new line between Paris and Lyon, with a target speed of 260 k.p.h.,'' or about 162 m.p.h., Lacote recalled. Over the next few years the TGV design evolved into a more efficient, electricity-driven train. When it began operating in the 1980s, ridership quickly met projections. In the decades since, the airline business between the two cities mostly evaporated, and the top speed on the line -- which turns an operating profit -- has risen to about 320 k.p.h., which, at nearly 200 m.p.h., translates into a two-hour trip. (Paris is about 460 kilometers, or 285 miles, from Lyon.) At peak times, double-decker trains carrying more than 1,000 people leave Paris every 30 minutes for Lyon. ''Those trains are full, full, full,'' Mellier told me. Generally speaking, Mellier added, Alstom's high-speed trains suffer two or three ''faults'' -- delays of more than five minutes -- for every one million kilometers, or about every 621,000 miles, they travel.
 When I toured the AGV prototype the next evening in La Rochelle, I was shown around by Eric Marie, who manages the high-speed trains at the La Rochelle factory, and Laurent Baron, the engineer in charge of developing the prototype. Marie and Baron each told me that in Europe, high-speed trains have cornered, or would soon corner, the market for any trip under three hours. ''If you look at rail, this California corridor is a perfect one,'' Marie said. ''You have a distance that falls between this definition of three hours. And the traffic of airplanes is incredible.'' With the AGV, Baron added, Alstom was trying to increase the train speed so that it could do 1,000 kilometers (about 620 miles) in three hours. ''Basically that allows us to go from one extremity of France to another'' in that time or less, he said. ''So the idea is really to kill the interior plane system.'' The success of such efforts depends as much on pricing as performance, of course. Railway operators essentially choose between maximizing ridership (through lower prices), maximizing profits (through higher prices) or opting for some middle ground. The numbers are quite elastic. In California, the rail authority tested 13 different pricing schemes, comparing the effects, for instance, of prices set at averages of 50 percent and 77 percent of airfares. The lower price projected 15 million more riders annually.
 Only two of the seven AGV cars were outfitted with seats to explore possible interior designs. The other cars were filled with long, makeshift wooden tables where Alstom engineers worked at their laptops. As we walked through the length of the AGV, the contrast between its sleek, silver exterior and its internal chaos -- tools, cables and calibrating equipment were strewn everywhere -- was disorienting. Baron and Marie explained that the train, which cost about 100 million euros, or about $141 million, to develop, was driven extensively last year on test tracks in the Czech Republic and in France (where it achieved speeds of 360 k.p.h., or about 223 m.p.h.). Until the La Rochelle factory begins delivering trains next year, the parked prototype remains a laboratory for tests -- on noise, lighting, interior layout and the like. Perfecting the train's hardware and software is especially crucial, since in many ways it is a rolling computer. The AGV's first car is loaded with databanks and communications equipment, in part because of the European Union's vestigial provincialism. Signaling systems can change several times on a single route, as can voltages and currents (there is AC as well as DC), which means the train's computers must frequently compensate for power variations. In some ways, accommodating for these inconsistencies means that designing an AGV train for Europe is more complex than designing one for, say, California.
 The first order for the model, 25 trains, has come from Italy, where a group of private investors has founded a train operator called Nuovo Trasporto Viaggiatori. In Europe, at least, the high-speed market may soon start to resemble the early days of the airline industry, in which private operators like NTV, not just state-owned corporations, see an opportunity to buy trains from companies like Alstom or Siemens, pay a fee for track usage and start hauling passengers. Alstom's engineers thus set out to design a faster, more cost-efficient (and environmentally efficient) train. Compared with a single-decker TGV, the new AGV holds 20 percent more passengers. At the same time, it's lighter, thanks partly to new composite materials that have replaced steel, and it uses significantly less energy than previous models.
 I left La Rochelle late the next morning and caught the train to Paris, from where I later took the TGV to Strasbourg, the country's newest high-speed route. On the way to Strasbourg I rode in the driver's cabin, which narrows aerodynamically toward the nose of the train, where the driver's chair is located. More than anything, the room resembled the cone of a forward-facing rocket, with a confusing variety of screens, dials and communications equipment and a large, sloping windshield that carried the splattered remains of high-speed encounters with French insects. The four of us in the small space -- the driver, his supervisor, an Alstom representative and myself -- made for a tight fit. We eased out of Paris slowly on track shared with slower commuter lines; once we moved onto dedicated track, however, the driver used a hand throttle to accelerate the train to 320 kilometers per hour, or about 199 m.p.h. Looking out the windshield was an experience of onrushing geometry: the rails stretching out one way and the crossties going another; and above, the long electric catenary wire, held aloft by evenly spaced poles, reaching straight to the horizon. In the cabin, there was a steady noise of electronic buzzers and bleats. When a TGV driver's foot loses contact with a floor sensor for more than 30 seconds, for instance, a warning bell sounds, alerting the driver that he has 2.5 seconds to push a button and demonstrate he hasn't taken ill for some reason. If he doesn't answer the signal, the train shuts down.
 The Strasbourg line, about 300 miles long, took seven years and five billion euros to plan and build, including one billion euros for the trains. Since it opened in 2007 it has exceeded ridership projections and has expanded rail's share of that travel market to about 70 percent from 40 percent. (The ultimate goal is 90 percent.) On the way to Strasbourg we passed mostly pasture land. Cows grazed under cloudy skies. Occasionally, we sped past fields of colza, blooms of mustard-colored flowers that turned the countryside a blurred, brilliant yellow. Gabriel Nonnemacher -- a compact and ebullient train supervisor who answered my questions so the driver would not be distracted -- pointed out landmarks as we went along. The train route dated to the 1860s, he said, when the trip usually took seven hours or so. In more recent years, Paris-to-Strasbourg was four hours by rail. The high-speed line had brought the journey down to 2 hours 20 minutes, but there were already discussions, he said, about creating a longer dedicated track for this same corridor, so trains could go faster for a longer time and reduce the trip to 1 hour 50 minutes. As we glided into the Strasbourg station, Nonnemacher pointed to the digital clock to the left of the driver. ''Voila,'' he said. Our train was supposed to arrive at 7:41 p.m. We were five seconds early.
 In the spring, as California teetered on the edge of bankruptcy, it seemed conceivable that state budget cuts might affect the high-speed-rail planners, perhaps forcing some of the engineers to pause their work. Yet because the money for the train comes from state bond sales and is not part of the state's ''general fund,'' several members of the rail authority told me that they doubted budget shortfalls would have any near-term impact. In fact, the project appeared finally to have taken on momentum. In April, when Obama sketched out a vision for various regional corridors -- in California, Florida, Pennsylvania, the Pacific Northwest and the Midwest -- he and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood made the case that forthcoming federal investments in rail projects like California's were akin to Dwight Eisenhower's decision 53 years ago to build a national network of Interstate highways. The federal high-speed-rail money was only a down payment, Obama acknowledged, but it would allow Americans ''to imagine what's possible.'' When I spoke with LaHood, I asked what the administration learned from the experiences of Japan and France. ''That these things can't happen unless you have real intense involvement from the government,'' he replied. ''That these things are very expensive. But we wouldn't have an Interstate system if there weren't an involvement from the government. And it still took us three decades to do it. That's how we should look at high-speed rail.'' By 2012, LaHood said, ''I think you'll see construction on high-speed rail in California. I think you'll see final plans in the Midwest. And I think you'll see final plans of what to do in the Northeast corridors.''
 One fundamental challenge of high-speed rail is that construction time generally exceeds the term, or terms, of elected politicians. When I spoke to Schwarzenegger in early May, he mainly seemed to view the rail plan with a mixture of near-term and long-term pragmatism. It would immediately create jobs; and in time it would cut pollution, reduce congestion and obviate the need to expand the airports. He had been riding high-speed trains for decades, he told me, even back in his early days of attending bodybuilding competitions in Japan. ''I came to America because America is No. 1 in just about everything: the biggest bridges, the biggest buildings,'' he said. ''Everything here was always huge and generous. The greatest opportunities. And then as you live here you see we are slipping in some areas. Look at the train system. They're running the same speed as they were 100 years ago. Is that what No. 1 does? Live in the past?'' I didn't have the heart to tell him that some trains actually run slower now than they did nearly 100 years ago. Instead, I asked if he expected to break ground on the rail project before he finishes his term in January 2011. ''That's my goal,'' he said.
 This is probably too optimistic. Most people I spoke with think a few years is more likely, because of the time-consuming nature of the environmental-review process. And even a groundbreaking ceremony doesn't mean the rail link between Northern and Southern California is imminent. Think of the train -- as those at the rail authority do -- not as one line but as eight connected segments. Some parts of the route (from San Francisco to San Jose, or Anaheim to Los Angeles) could open long before others, possibly generating renewed political support for the project several years from now. An opening of a particular segment, moreover, could help attract private-sector investors who think the rail line might turn an operating profit. Clearly, the thing is so expensive and complex that it's easier to think of in parts than the whole.
 That's not to say that the parts are easy. Already this spring, the board of the California High Speed Rail Authority was getting a bitter taste of the battles to come. Among other things, potential problems had arisen over the size of a planned rail station in San Francisco. Meanwhile, a not-in-my-backyard standoff with the city of Palo Alto, still unresolved, was raging over the route of the train through town.
 It is sometimes easy to forget in the disputes over state money and local politics that the train project has national implications too. For one thing, it represents the challenge of getting big and risky things built following a boom-time era when it often seemed as if America was content to build little else besides cars, houses and shopping malls. In the United States and France, I encountered the belief that if California could break ground and actually see its rail project through, that could permanently change public opinion about big infrastructure spending and would represent a departure from a half-century of federal transportation policy focused mostly on financing highways and airports. ''If California is a success, I believe in the U.S. we'll see a lot more high-speed lines,'' Philippe Mellier, the head of Alstom Transport, told me when we met in Paris. ''I believe it will be the showcase. But if it's not working well? In the end it could be a failure for many years for this idea in the U.S. So it has to be very carefully done.''
 There aren't really any recent examples of high-speed rail as a technical failure. Yet it is entirely plausible that the financial and political difficulties in California could keep other regions from trying to replicate its rail project. Disappointing ridership numbers, without question, could do the same. If, on the other hand, the California train does succeed, it will likely spur economic development in the state as well as some less predictable social impacts. In France, Mellier pointed me to the small city of Reims, about 90 miles from Paris, which has effectively become a Parisian suburb since the opening of the Strasbourg line in 2007. You wonder if Bakersfield could become a bedroom community of Los Angeles. In recent years, moreover, some French cartographers who think about the social effects of train transportation have taken to creating new maps of Europe that simultaneously reflect the time and the distance between cities. These ''time space'' drawings of France (the technical name is anamorphic maps) have a distorted look as if someone crumpled a paper rendering of the country and pulled all the surrounding cities closer to Paris than they really are. Marseille is half its real distance from the capital, as are Strasbourg and Lyon. Mostly this is because of the TGV, which seems to have knit the country together in a way that air travel never did. Alain L'Hostis, a geographer at the Universite Paris-Est, told me that the train has undoubtedly changed the psychological distance between places. For the French, he said, the mobility has created among many citizens ''a feeling of belonging to a common or interconnected city.''
 As a survivor of an Amtrak journey up the coast, I recalled those 13 hours unconnected to any California city at all -- not a particularly pleasant feeling. When I asked Schwarzenegger about the social effects of a rail line, he quickly replied, ''I think people will look at the state and not just say, 'Oh, my God, I have to go from the south to the north, what a schlep.' '' That was kind of like what L'Hostis said to me, but in a different way. After Schwarzenegger thought for a moment more, he said, speaking of his own commute by private jet: ''I fly from Sacramento to Los Angeles, and it takes two hours. And if I would fly commercial, you would have to add an hour, or an hour and a half. Imagine. What if I could do high-speed rail?'' I could picture a crumpled time-space drawing of his state. In my mind, and maybe in his, too, the big cities of California were already moving closer together. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The French company Alstom is building a new generation of high-speed trains, the AGV, which now exists as a single prototype.
Alstom is trying to increase train speed so the AGV can travel 620 miles in three hours.
The fi rst order, for 25 trains, came from Italy, where a group of private investors has formed a transportation company.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMBROISE TEZENAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM45) DRAWINGS: (pg. MM42)(pg. MM43)
CHART: COST-PER-TRIP COMPARISON, L.A. TO SACRAMENTO: $100
$50
$55
HIGH-SPEED-RAIL PLAN
FIRST PHASES
FUTURE PHASES (DRAWINGS BY BRYAN CHRISTIE DESIGN)(pg. MM44)
CHART: HIGH-SPEEDRAIL ANNUAL RIDERSHIP (IN MILLIONS): 346: Japan
100: France
 67: GERMANY (DATA SOURCE : FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION)(pg. MM56) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (77%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (74%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



360 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: Arts Groups Seek Safety in Numbers

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
''PEOPLE visit New York to come to Broadway, but people are inspired to move to New York and live here because of organizations like ours,'' said Kristin Marting, the artistic director of the Here Arts Center in the South Village, which has produced innovative new theatrical work since it was founded in 1993. 
 Ms. Marting is not just blowing her own horn. She's actually speaking of 11 diverse downtown arts organizations that have come together to forge a collective and active response to the grim economic climate. Calling themselves the Lower Manhattan Arts Leaders, they meet once a week to plan strategy and exchange ideas about helping government policy makers and grant-making foundations become aware of the vital ways in which small arts groups feed the life of a neighborhood.
 Support for the arts, in their view, is not simply a matter of cultural philanthropy, it's also a smart and necessary way to sustain a vibrant urban environment, to keep any city from becoming a patchwork of chain stores, steroidal gyms and name-brand coffee shops. It's forward-thinking city planning. 
 ''I think we need to pay more attention to the artistic and cultural work that goes on in every neighborhood in this city,'' Ms. Marting said. ''We are part of what makes New York unique. It's amazing the mixture of experiences you can have in a night. We are in danger of losing a lot of the fabric of our neighborhoods as they become more expensive, and arts organizations are on the front line.'' 
 It's a dangerous place to be right now because as everyone involved in the arts has become painfully aware, the steep economic slide of the past months has radically altered the climate. Grant-giving foundations have watched their endowments plummet in tandem with the stock market and have tightened the purse strings accordingly. Corporate giving has become scarcer still, with some companies even shying away from taking the usual generous credit for money already given rather than be seen spending on philanthropy as they slash costs and set employees adrift.
 You might expect that the sudden scarcity of arts dollars would bring out a ruthless streak in the administrators charged with keeping their organizations afloat in rough economic waters. It would be only natural for companies to fight hard and fend for themselves as the never exactly enormous pie of arts money shrinks to the size of a two-bite tart. And yet the members of the Lower Manhattan Arts Leaders reacted in just the opposite way, banding together to create a collective front to fight the tough times.
 Nello McDaniel, who runs the consulting group Arts Action Research, said: ''It makes a tremendous amount of sense and also says a lot about the strength of these organizations.'' Mr. McDaniel, who has attended some of the new group's meetings, added, ''Not so long ago the mind-set was a sort of castle-island. If you were a theater or dance organization, you built a moat to protect your turf, and the thought of sharing or reaching out was antithetical.'' 
 Kevin Cunningham, the executive artistic director of 3-Legged Dog/3LD Art & Technology Center, which presents theatrical and multimedia works, was among the first to sense the seriousness of the impact as the economy began to sour last summer. Mr. Cunningham had weathered catastrophe before; 3-Legged Dog was the only arts producing organization to have its headquarters destroyed in the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 ''We began to see the same patterns that we saw in 2001 to 2003 in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks,'' he said. ''There was a similar sharp cessation of foundation giving, along with deep cuts in giving by individuals and government funding.''
 But Mr. Cunningham also foresaw a lack of unified effort to fight the impact of the impending downturn. In contrast to the post-9/11 response, ''there didn't seem to be any kind of plan or interest in a community intervention to help these arts groups survive,'' he said. ''There was not the kind of pulling together of the community on behalf of itself, and no concerted recovery effort coming from the funding community.'' 
 Instead of getting sharp elbowed, however, Mr. Cunningham recruited neighborhood allies to present a united front as they began the hard work of digging up new resources and securing gifts already promised. In addition to 3LD and Here, Lower Manhattan Arts Leaders includes the theater companies Soho Rep, the Flea Theater, Dixon Place, Access Theater and Blue Coyote Theater Group; the dance companies Dance New Amsterdam and Battery Dance Company; the independent media arts center DCTV; and the Children's Museum of the Arts.
 Many had already worked together, but the sense of embattlement inspired a new sense of solidarity. Like most not-for-profit arts organizations, these generally earn from ticket sales less than half the money they need to function. A sudden, steep decline in corporate, government and individual giving could be crippling, and many were already feeling the pinch. 
 The idea of safety in numbers has more than one dimension as it applies here. One of the first orders of business was translating into actual statistics the powerful influence these companies collectively have on the economic health of the neighborhood. Although individually they are mostly small fry when it comes to the arts in the city -- with annual budgets from just $32,000 to $3 million -- the companies together create some 1,500 full- or part-time jobs. They serve an audience of 275,000 annually and have an aggregate budget of $15 million. 
 ''We wanted to make clear,'' Ms. Marting said, ''the size of our collective cultural and economic impact on the neighborhood, so that when people think about cutting funding for the arts they think about what they're losing on a deeper level.'' 
 A theater company, dance company or museum draws visitors from throughout the city. The rap on Lincoln Center has been that it closes itself off from the urban landscape around it. The smaller outfits represented by Lower Manhattan Arts Leaders, peppered all over downtown, sit cheek by jowl with residential and retail neighbors. 
 Despite the importance of the arts as an economic engine -- nationwide they represent 4.3 percent of American business and employ 5.7 million people -- the big-ticket stimulus package didn't give much support to the arts. Initially an amendment in the Senate version specifically prohibited the use of the funds for a ''casino or other gambling establishment, aquarium, zoo, golf course, swimming pool, stadium, community park, museum, theater, art center and highway beautification project.'' That language, fortunately, was changed. (Swimming pools are still out of luck, I'm afraid.) But the $50 million added to the budget for the National Endowment the Arts is still a paltry sum given the size of the stimulus. Arts support continues to be an almost impossible sell in Washington. 
 Paul Nagle, an arts advocacy expert who is director of communications and cultural policy for Councilman member Alan J. Gerson of Manhattan, has been advising the new organization and sitting in on policy meetings. He has been impressed with their innovative approach to making a case for culture as a vital organ in the health of a city. 
 ''It's a really different way of presenting the argument for the arts,'' he said. ''Because you have such a small geographic area you get a much better microeconomic picture of the impact that arts organizations have on their neighborhoods.
 ''Policy makers have been happy to hear this,'' he added. ''They don't really know how integral the arts are to urban economies, all the different ways they contribute.''
 Initial reactions to the organization's efforts has been positive, although with foundations often working from multiyear plans on different schedules, there are no major victories to declare yet. Meetings with staff from Senator Charles E. Schumer's office have been positive, with the attendees responding well to ''the concept that culture should be eligible to access noncultural funding streams when it can help to achieve the objectives of those streams,'' as Mr. Nagle put it.
 But the objectives of the new organization, which hopes to become a model for similar collectives in other parts of the city, do not end with prying open access to available grant money. Ms. Marting said the meetings also involve discussions of new fund-raising and marketing models, potential exchanges of resources and other initiatives. This fall the groups will inaugurate Fall Downtown, a festival that will include events at most if not all of the member organizations. A smaller number of the organizations is also looking at the possibility of creating a debt-restructuring subgroup, creating one big debt pool out of their obligations to secure a lower interest rate and save everyone money. 
 Mr. Cunningham admitted that he was prepared for some rough sailing when the group first got together. ''But I was pleasantly surprised,'' he said. ''My experience is that these ad hoc organizations can be real cat-herding exercises. This has turned out to be one of the most satisfying and easy collaborations that we've been involved in. These are tested nonprofit managers who are also artists. They have had to be efficient to survive, so we don't get into a lot of long-winded discussions.''
 And he hopes that the encouraging sense of their collective prowess as an economic engine in the neighborhood will be communicated to the policy makers and foundations, he said. ''If this is just 11 small groups, imagine how significant the impact of all the similar companies in the city and the country is,'' he added. ''We are having a more direct effect on job creation than most studies show.'' 
 The urgent importance of getting that message across cannot be overstated, Mr. Cunningham said. Reflecting on the nightmare events that inspired him to circle the artistic wagons, he recalls thinking that ''if something didn't change quick,'' half the city's 1,400 nonprofits ''could be dead within 18 to 24 months.'' He added: ''Many are already operating at minimum capacity. They've already cut all they could.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the Here Arts Center in the South Village
above, Rainpan 43's production of ''Machines Machines Machines Machines Machines Machines Machines,'' at Here. Right, the 3-Legged Dog/3LD Art & Technology Center in Lower Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARL SKUTCH
JACQUES-JEAN TIZIOU
3-LEGGED DOG)
 Right, Adam Bock's ''Thugs'' at Soho Rep, with, from left, Carmen M. Herlihy, Lynne McCollough, Mary Shultz and Saidah Arrika Ekulona. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONIQUE CARBONI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (88%); CHARITIES (88%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CITIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); CORPORATE GIVING (74%); CITY LIFE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); COFFEE (67%); RETAILERS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



361 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: The Undeterred

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE are many condominium owners and residential brokers around who remember the downturn in the 1980s, when the only work for brokers seemed to be helping banks with their inventories of unsold apartments. And in the last few months, after sales had fallen off a cliff once more, a handful of weakened small firms closed or were absorbed by larger firms. 
 But not everyone remembers those bad times, and two young brokerage firms, one specializing in new developments in Brooklyn and the other on Manhattan rentals and resales, have merged in the last few weeks, hoping to use the real estate recession to take on their older, larger and more experienced rivals. Two of the principals are only 32. 
 The merger brings together the Developers Group, which is marketing about 20 new condo projects in Brooklyn, with offices in Dumbo and Williamsburg, and the Real Estate Group of New York, which began as a rental firm a few years ago and has 50 exclusive rental buildings, but expanded to resales during the real estate boom. It has a single office in Kips Bay
 ''Neither of us were having cash flow problems,'' said Daniel Baum, 32, a founder of the Real Estate Group, who will be the chief executive of the new firm. ''We are trying to take advantage of a down market, and increase our market share.''
 The combined firm will have about 70 agents, a small number in an industry in which the five biggest brokerages have a total of more than 4,000 agents. But it is hoping to pick up business as new developments, facing stress, change marketing agents, or switch condo projects to rentals.
 The Developers Group was founded six years ago by two former Corcoran Group brokers -- Highlyann Krasnow, 32, and Elan Padeh, 36 -- as a one-stop shop offering marketing, sales and layout help to Brooklyn developers. 
 But Ms. Krasnow said that as buyers of its first projects have begun to resell units, the firm didn't have a listing system to support resales, or experience in helping developers and buyers rent out units. Now it will have both, and a stronger base for expansion in Manhattan. 
 The Real Estate Group was founded in 2004 by two former Citi Habitats agents: Mr. Baum and Andrew Barrocas. 
 Mr. Baum said that the new firm will be known as TDG/TREGNY until they think of a better name.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); MERGERS (75%); MARKET SHARE (69%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



362 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: New Rail Lines Spur Urban Revival

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
WHEN it was incorporated in 1913, Carrollton, Tex., was a thriving farm community. Three freight railroad lines intersected to help farmers get their grain, livestock and cotton to market. Today this city of around 123,000 people, just 14 miles north of Dallas, is again looking to the rail lines for its economic prosperity.
 In April, the Carrollton City Council approved a $38 million mixed-use development next to a commuter rail station being erected downtown. The station is Carrollton's main gateway to the 28-mile Green Line, a $1.8 billion expansion of Dallas Area Rapid Transit. After the line's scheduled completion in late 2010, it will link Carrollton with downtown and southern Dallas
 ''Rail is the catalyst for this new growth,'' said Peter Braster, whose title is transit-oriented development manager for Carrollton. ''It's important for the long-term sustainability of Carrollton.'' 
 City officials hope the railway and new development -- which will include four buildings with a total of 295 apartments, a parking garage, a public park and retail space -- will breathe life into a city center that empties after dark. 
 The project in Carrollton is among many nationwide to be planned around new and existing light rail lines. These so-called transit-oriented developments, along with downtown revitalization plans, tap into a move toward more pedestrian-friendly, urban-style living. 
 While the credit crisis has halted many housing developments -- notably subdivisions and stand-alone condominium buildings -- some projects that are going forward are linked to broader revitalization or transit-related efforts. 
 ''People have rediscovered cities and urban living,'' said Shelley Poticha, the president of Reconnecting America, a nonprofit organization focused on integrating transportation systems with communities they serve. 
 The use of public transportation has been rising. In 2007, Americans took 10.3 billion trips on public transit, the highest number in 50 years, according to the American Public Transportation Association. And the Obama administration has pledged $8 billion toward high-speed rail projects as part of its economic stimulus program. 
 But some communities have been taking matters into their own hands. Ms. Poticha's organization has tallied some $250 billion worth of light-rail, streetcar or high-speed bus projects being planned nationwide. 
 Many cities are inspired by the success of Denver; Charlotte, N.C.; Portland, Ore.; Salt Lake City and others in combining transit and development to revitalize downtowns and suburbs. 
 This past week, Denver has been host to an annual gathering of the Congress for the New Urbanism, a nonprofit that promotes alternatives to sprawl. When it last held its conference in Denver a little more than a decade ago, few people lived in the downtown core around the historic Union Station. Since then, Denver has embarked on a $4.7 billion expansion of its transit system, funded by a 0.4 percent sales tax increase approved by voters in 2004. The program, FasTracks, will add 122 miles of light rail, as well as new bus service, and is scheduled to be completed by 2017. The city is also overseeing a $1 billion redevelopment of Union Station. 
 Along the rail line, mixed-use communities have sprouted, such as Stapleton, a $5 billion development on the site of the former Stapleton International Airport, which closed in 1995. Shops and restaurants in downtown Denver are lively long after the workday has ended, and neighborhoods like Central Platte Valley, just northwest of downtown, are still being developed. 
 ''It's been transformative,'' said Tom Clark, executive vice president of the Metro Denver Economic Development Corporation. He anticipates 50 transit-oriented developments to be built around FasTracks over the next decade. 
 Urban-style development may be the brightest spot in a generally gloomy market. A recent survey of developers and investors by the Urban Land Institute for its annual Emerging Trends in Real Estate report found that urban redevelopment had the best prospects among all types of housing, while urban mixed-use properties and town centers scored high among niche property types. ''These are the places that will be creating and holding value,'' Ms. Poticha said. She said proximity to public transit could raise property values significantly.
 ''It's moved from being an interesting idea to a core investment,'' said Jonathan F. P. Rose, the president of the Jonathan Rose Companies, a New York-based developer and investor.
 The most successful projects do more than build housing near transit stations. They take pains to create livable neighborhoods, with parks, paths, retail stores and places for people to gather. ''Place-making is key,'' Ms. Poticha said. 
 That often requires collaboration between local governments and private developers. Local governments might invest in transit, parks and infrastructure, revise zoning laws and offer financial incentives in return for a developer taking the risk of building in an unproven area.
 Both sides can benefit: city participation may help developers raise funds in a tight market, while the investment can both raise tax revenue for the city and attract employers and young professionals. 
 In 2002, the government of Columbus, Ohio, began a sweeping effort to remake its downtown. It raised $800 million in city, county, state and federal funds for infrastructure improvements. That helped attract $1.5 billion in private investment, mainly for housing and commercial development.
 Lifestyle Communities, based in Columbus, is one of those developers. It is building a $25 million rental and condo project, the Annex at RiverSouth. Without the public investment in area roads and infrastructure, ''it would have been difficult,'' said Michael DeAscentis Jr., the company's chief executive.
 In Los Angeles, the Downtown Center Business Improvement District arranged weekly bus tours for people interested in living downtown, according to Rhonda Slavik, sales and marketing director for the South Group, a company that has built residential buildings in the emerging South Park neighborhood. 
 Of course, many municipalities are feeling pinched these days. Increased costs have forced Denver to look for additional funding for its ambitious plans, while in Charlotte, city officials may delay construction of one of two planned rail lines. 
 For Carrollton, which the project manager, Mr. Braster, says ''runs very lean,'' the issue was how to avoid a tax hike. Over the years, the city set aside about $13.5 million for development of a parking garage, park and various infrastructure. High Street Residential, a unit of the Trammell Crow Company that focuses on the development of urban villages, is assuming the rest of the $38 million tab and construction.
 The city also waived many standard fees associated with the project. The city's investment, according to Art Lomenick, president of High Street Residential, helps keep rents down. (The firm is in negotiations with lenders to secure financing for the project).
 Carrollton, too, will gain. It will lease the parking garage back to Trammell Crow and get a 7 percent slice of profits. It also estimates that the new development, along with two other transit stations being built in other parts of town, will represent $1.3 billion in increased value to the city. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS
Light rail lines are helping to revitalize urban areas like Larimer Square in the historic district of downtown Denver, left, and spur development of neighborhoods like Central Platte Valley, bottom left, near downtown. At bottom right is a rendering of a planned development in Carrollton, Tex., where a commuter rail station is also being erected.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); RAIL FREIGHT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); SUBURBS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: DALLAS AREA RAPID TRANSIT INC (57%); AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



363 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Location, Location: It Still Pays To Be Near

BYLINE: By LESLIE BERLIN. 
Leslie Berlin is project historian for the Silicon Valley Archives at Stanford. E-mail: prototype@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN a business world linked by electronic networks and cheap, nearly instantaneous communications, physical location shouldn't matter. 
 But it does. 
 Aspiring editors still move to New York, home to a huge share of the nation's trade publishers. Many musicians still pack their bags for Nashville. Would-be entrepreneurs still flock to Silicon Valley, and for those who don't make the move, leading venture capital firms often come to them, by setting up offices in tech centers around the world to be closer to new sources of talent. 
 Advances in technology ''were supposed to make place unimportant, but in fact, the opposite has happened,'' said Richard Florida, author of ''Who's Your City?: How the Creative Economy is Making Where to Live the Most Important Decision of Your Life.'' 
 Today, Mr. Florida said, ''a relatively small number of locations still produce the lion's share of innovation.'' These places continue to attract the most talented people from around the world, who then ''combine and recombine in new and innovative ways that increase the odds that something great will emerge,'' he said.
 Of course, the technology that might render physical location unimportant is often itself a product of one of these innovative regions. Social networks like Facebook, founded at Harvard but now based in Silicon Valley, make it easy to share ideas online. Sites like LinkedIn, also based in the valley, aim to reproduce real-world business networking by identifying the connections among people. 
 These online tools can be effective for vetting ideas and for gaining introductions. The open-source movement has also shown that people everywhere can successfully work together in virtual teams to build software, translate Web sites, write Wikipedia pages and even play together in online concerts. Yet even with virtual networking for business on the rise, places like Silicon Valley and New York have not lost their allure.
 It is hard to define what physical proximity provides that virtual networks lack. But some people suggest that it boils down to opportunities to build trust.
 ''When you're starting a company, everybody needs to be on the same page about what is important,'' said Leonard Speiser, a serial entrepreneur who is now chief executive of the three-month-old Joonto, an online consumer product guide that he describes as ''Consumer Reports meets Wikipedia.'' ''You have to be able to get together and talk, get to know each other. It takes great effort to do that virtually.''
 Michael Dearing, a former eBay executive who teaches in the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design at Stanford, made a similar point. Proximity, he said, ''just creates opportunity professionally, the same way being in a friendship is made better by being together.''
 The important element of cultural immersion is also hard to replicate online, said Mr. Speiser, who moved from Boston to Silicon Valley in 1998 because he wanted to create a start-up. ''People here don't talk sports at parties; they talk technology: what they are doing, what they are thinking about,'' he said. ''With all the new technologies and platforms being built in Silicon Valley, it's like land opening up earlier in American history. If you're here, you can learn first where the good land is.'' 
 RANDALL GLEIN, managing director of the DFJ Growth fund at Draper Fisher Jurvetson, a venture capital company that backed Hotmail and Skype, among other companies, called Silicon Valley ''an innovation ecosystem with a critical mass of people with similar interests.'' One reason for the region's success, he said, is that ''more than any other place, it is full of people who have built companies before and are willing to help foster the next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators.''
 ''In spite of everything technology can do, there is really no replacement for personal contact and face-to-face relationships when it comes to building companies,'' he added. 
 Draper Fisher Jurvetson has offices in China and India, as well as partnerships with local venture capital firms in other countries. Tim Draper, a founding partner in the firm and the driving force behind its moves overseas, said that a local presence in other countries is important, both for evaluating a start-up's prospects and for supporting companies as they grow.
 Since 2006, the firm has invested in 23 Chinese start-up companies through the DFJ DragonFund, based in China. Tony Luh, a managing director of the fund who works in Beijing, said he has helped start-up companies obtain licenses from the government, recruit employees and find accounting and legal assistance. Every two months, he gathers the portfolio company executives for a meeting to share ideas and problems. 
 ''We stand at their side'' to help them grow and survive, he said. ''We could not do these things if we were not here.'' 
 BEYOND the technology industry, too, location matters. Even as publishing goes digital, for example, many people who want to work as agents and editors still migrate to New York. 
 ''Publishing is a shared pursuit, driven by a lot of personal passion,'' said Gerald Howard, executive editor and vice president of Doubleday, a part of Random House. ''It somehow seems easier to convey that excitement, and to make plans to turn it into some income stream, face to face.''
 Shortly after saying that, Mr. Howard, with whom I was speaking by telephone, was interrupted. After a minute away, he returned to the line. ''An agent who is a friend'' happened to be in the building, he said. This person would stop in as soon as the call was over.
 ''We'll have a fine old talk,'' Mr.
 Howard predicted, ''and something of a business nature will undoubtedly emerge.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Luh, a managing director of the DFJ DragonFund, based in China. He works in Beijing to be near his start-ups. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLISHING (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSIC (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); WEB SITES (69%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: FITT HIGHWAY PRODUCTS INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



364 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; THE BLOG; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: The Nano at Fiat Showrooms?

BYLINE: By NICK KURCZEWSKI

 BODY:
IT'S no secret Tata Motors, India's largest domestic automaker, wants to introduce its low-buck Nano city car in the United States. 
 Speaking at the Cornell Global Forum on Sustainable Enterprise this month, Ratan Tata, chairman of the Tata Group, said he hoped to see the Nano arrive in North America by 2011, according to Reuters. This is despite the need to engineer the Nano to meet United States safety and emissions requirements, not to mention the search to find a suitable location to sell the cars.
 So how does a company hope to re-engineer a car within two years for a market where it has absolutely no sales presence? 
 Luckily for Tata, the answer to these problems could be solved with a call to Fiat-Chrysler. 
 Fiat and Tata already share many joint ventures. Tata sells Fiats in India and has access to the Italian company's diesel engines. The two companies share a factory in India, and Tata has developed a pickup truck that Fiat will sell under its own name. 
 Fiat's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, has also routinely stated his desire to introduce a budget brand to fit below Fiat's already economical range of vehicles. An American or European version of the Nano, minus Tata badges, and possibly wearing a dormant nameplate from Fiat's past, could give the Fiat Group its cheap car brand and Tata an entry into markets in Europe and the United States.
 NICK KURCZEWSKI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LITTLE CAR, BIG STEP: Tata wants to sell the Nano in the U.S. (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); SALES & SELLING (70%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (94%); TATA GROUP (92%); TATA MOTORS LTD (58%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (94%); F (BIT) (94%); TTMT (LSE) (58%); TTM (NYSE) (58%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RATAN TATA (79%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



365 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL /2010 BMW Z4; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Always a Performer, Now Lettering in Looks

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
HYPNOTIZED by the sea blue BMW that slipped into my parking space a few weeks ago, I stopped wondering about how fast this test car would go or whether it could stop at all.
 You should do the same. 
 But if you insist on details and are given to using words like downforce and stoichiometry at the dinner table, be assured that the 2010 edition of the Z4 is plenty fast and halts like a drill instructor. 
 Will it describe an asphalt arc as mathematically as the Porsche Boxster? No. But here's the dirty little secret of luxury convertibles: most buyers don't do math. 
 For those who would consider dropping $50,000 or even $60,000 on a two-seat driveway ornament, this is what matters: the BMW is beautiful, inside and out. It's the most luxurious convertible this side of a $100,000 Jaguar XKR or Mercedes-Benz SL550. The exterior makes the Porsche Boxster seem a bit played-out; the interior makes a Corvette's look like recycled duct tape. 
 If you don't believe me, ask my wife. She drove the Z4 to the corner bodega and pronounced it her new favorite car even before she shifted out of second gear. Add her to the week's worth of women and men who flirted with the BMW, smitten by its mile-long hood and sophisticated creases and cavities. 
 The new Z4 is undoubtedly one of the best do-overs in recent years, a confident, muscular reinvention by Juliane Blasi and Nadya Arnaout of BMW's Munich design studio. The previous generation of the Z4 was cloyingly overstyled, arguably the least successful design by Chris Bangle, who has stepped down as BMW's design chief. And with an exception for the brilliant M Coupe version, that earlier Z4 also fell short in arousing passion for many drivers. 
 The new car, now with a retractable metal roof rather than a soft top, soothes rather than strains the eye. And it is more engaging to drive, especially with the twin-turbo in-line 6 as was the case in the sDrive35i version I tested. 
 BMW has moved Z4 production across the Atlantic, transferring assembly from the American South -- Spartanburg, S.C. -- to the southern German city of Regensburg. It also slid the Z4 toward the decadent end of the two-seat spectrum. 
 The new car is nearly a half-foot longer and roughly an inch wider, but drivers are likely to show a greater appreciation for the richness of its cabin appointments, a first-class upgrade from the barren surroundings of the previous Z4. The glove box and interior storage accommodations are reasonable, and an optional center pass-through to the trunk lets owners carry two sets of skis or a full-size golf bag. 
 With its top down and midriff exposed, my Z4 test car looked ready for a South Beach summer, its paint hue contrasting smartly with the resort-ready ivory leather on the seats, dashboard and door panels. That leather adds $2,050 to the $52,475 base price of the sDrive35i, and also added sport seats and dark wood trim. Like other drop-top Bimmers, the Z4 features a sun-reflective coating on the leather that reduces their surface temperatures in direct sunlight -- a boon to sensitive thighs.
 Z4s equipped with the optional GPS navigation system use the newest version of BMW's iDrive, the control interface for most every electronic device in the car. Once an infuriating maze of inscrutable menus and illogical buttons, the latest iDrive is vastly more user-friendly and surprisingly simple to operate. A rotary knob between the seats controls the settings of the navigation and entertainment systems on a dash-top 8.8-inch screen that seems IMAX-scale in a car this small. 
 The Z4's two-piece metal hardtop retracts in about 20 seconds. It renders the cabin virtually as quiet as any conventional hardtop. 
 It's quite a treat to watch the top fold and get swallowed by the trunk. But the aluminum panels and its structure add roughly 200 pounds compared with a soft top, bringing the Z4 to 3,500 pounds.
 Yet as with most retractable hardtops, this designer sandwich, once folded, leaves room for little more than a few side dishes. The trunk is not as laughable as that of the Pontiac Solstice, yet a wheeled carry-on suitcase barely fit with the top down. Even with the roof raised, there are more mysterious braces and gussets than you'd see in a '20s lingerie shop, cutting into storage.
 After serial encounters with metal-roof convertibles, I've decided that I'd gladly take the inconveniences of a fabric top -- overstated anyway, as the modern versions are precisely fitted, double-layered for insulation and all but leakproof -- to gain enough trunk space for two people to make a weekend escape with one measly bag apiece. 
 On a run through the horse country of Dutchess County, N.Y., I dropped the top to feel the sun and hear that playful engine along the rolling two-lane roads. With 300 horsepower and 300 pound-feet of torque, the twin-turbo power plant has become BMW's well-bred workhorse, powering everything from the 1 Series coupe and 3 Series sedan to the X6 crossover. 
 BMW cites a 5.1-second 0-60 m.p.h. time for the stick-shift 35i. That seemed conservative; Car and Driver magazine managed a brisk 4.8-second run. Even the lesser sDrive30i, equipped with a naturally aspirated 255-horsepower in-line 6, runs the 0-60 dash in 5.6 seconds. 
 The Z4's manual shifter is a squarish, short-throw chunk of aluminum that pivots beautifully through its six gears. While the Z4 30i model offers a sprightly 6-speed automatic with paddle shifters, the 35i model incorporates the even sportier dual-clutch automated gearbox first offered on the latest M3. 
 My test car's $1,900 sport package added stickier tires and an M adaptive suspension with three firmness settings. In comfort mode, the ride is especially plush for a small roadster. But the handling was so laid-back that I tended to leave it set in the middle Sport mode. 
 This setting recalibrates the throttle, tenses the steering, loosens up the stability control system, and in cars with an automatic transmission, lets the engine rev higher before upshifts. Kick it up to Sport Plus and it gives a wild-child pilot some leeway for wheelspin and drift before the stability control wags a finger of disapproval.
 Despite the electronic aids, the Z4's handling yields some advantage to competing sports cars. The BMW's steering is great at filtering unwanted vibrations but feels mildly isolated. Fly into a curve and you end up waiting a crucial beat to feel the computerized suspension hunker down before you can rocket out the other side. In the Boxster, you just fly, plotting to try it faster next time. It's odd that BMW can virtually perfect the steering of its 1, 3, 5 and 7 Series cars but hasn't quite nailed the formula in its small convertibles.
 The con to all these pros is that the BMW has moved upscale, just in time to watch the economy pass in the other direction. All prettied up with $10,600 in options, my 35i shot past $63,000. Still, a comparably equipped Boxster S costs roughly $70,000. The Mercedes SLK350 and the Audi TTS easily reach the upper $50,000 range, so the BMW isn't out of line. And the 30i model delivers all the style and most of the performance for about $6,000 less.
 In the tricky balancing act for any expensive convertible, the new BMW definitely leans toward luxury -- but not so far that it loses touch with its sporting principles. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLUSH TOY: The convertible roof of the redesigned Z4 is a folding metal design. Ivory leather, above, adds luxury trappings.(PG AU1)
 DOWNSIDE: The folding hardtop creates a sleek profile, but occupies much of the trunk when it is stowed. (PG. AU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); SKIING (60%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (51%) SOUTHEAST USA (71%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



366 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Columbus Square Creates a New World of Sorts

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
INITIALLY named Columbus Village, a five-tower development on the Upper West Side that has faced opposition from neighbors for a decade is opening its first tower under a new name: Columbus Square.
 Rental apartments in the 29-story tower at 808 Columbus Avenue, between 97th and 100th Streets, went on the market in May, starting at $2,395 a month for a studio of slightly more than 400 square feet. The building also has one-, two-, three- and four-bedroom apartments, and penthouses. A dozen had been rented as of early June.
 The tower, designed by Costas Kondylis & Partners, has a circular drive with valet parking, along with a cavernous lobby, a residents' lounge with a fireplace, a catering kitchen, a fitness center, a children's playroom, a bicycle storage room and a media center. 
 The interiors, designed by Andres Escobar & Associates, are marketed as luxury apartments; they have floor-to-ceiling windows, soundproof oak floors, washer-dryers, stainless-steel appliances and CaesarStone countertops.
 The developers, a partnership of members of the Chetrit Group and Stellar Management, were trying to evoke Columbus Circle with a contrasting name, said Laurence Gluck, Stellar's founder and a co-developer. ''We changed the name to Columbus Square,'' he said, ''to be in relief of Columbus Circle, which, of course, is on 59th Street.''
 On the avenue's west side, 808 Columbus has 359 apartments whose first tenants arrive in July. A 15-story high-rise at 801 Amsterdam Avenue and 100th Street will have 100 apartments, and is to open later this summer.
 Three other high-rises expected to open by October 2010 are under construction on the east side of Columbus, from 97th to 100th Street: the 12-story 775 Columbus, with 56 apartments; the 15-story 795 Columbus, with 132 apartments; and the 14-story 805 Columbus, with 63 apartments.
 The entire three-block frontage on both sides of Columbus Avenue is being rebuilt to create storefronts for businesses, including national retailers like Bank of America, T. J. Maxx and Michaels Stores, and local retailers like Crumbs Bakery. A Whole Foods Market is to be the first to open, in August.
 The tower at 801 Amsterdam will also have retail space, leased by Associated Supermarkets, among others. 
 Some space is also designated for community organizations, like the Mandell School, the Solomon Schechter School of Manhattan, and the William F. Ryan Community Health Center.
 Developers said they had worked hard to integrate Columbus Square, which cost just under $500 million, into a pre-existing 2,500-unit development called Park West Village, which shares the 24 acres circumscribed by 97th and 100th Streets on the south and north, and Amsterdam Avenue and Central Park on the west and east.
 Park West Village, owned by some of the people who own Columbus Square, consists of seven high-rises -- three buildings are stabilized rentals and four are condominiums -- whose residents will have access to each other, and a new park, through large arcades in 808 Columbus.
 ''This is all going to be one development when it's done,'' said Peter Rosenberg, the director of development and construction for Stellar. ''Everyone can use the park.''
 All five of the new towers will have expansive landscaped rooftops on the second or third floor; that of 808 Columbus will be the largest, at more than two acres. It will have a 70-foot saltwater pool inlaid with mosaic tiles, along with a sundeck and lawns.
 ''At the moment, each building's amenities are for the residents of that building,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. ''Those will not be accessible to the public.''
 Mr. Rosenberg said that open space was required under the property's zoning, and that this requirement is met by the landscaped rooftops and the new park. Once the five buildings are finished, the only land remaining will be a small portion zoned for community facilities. But two large surface parking lots now used by Park West Village residents will open up when underground parking lots are completed at 808 and 775 Columbus and 801 Amsterdam.
 Although the parking lots are not currently zoned for residential development, Park West Village residents worry that another tower may rise.
 The Park West Village Tenants Association, which has actively resisted any new development since covenants preventing it expired about a decade ago, continues to oppose Columbus Square, said Dean Heitner, the chairman of the association's legal committee.
 ''You call it Park West Village, but now these three buildings on the west side of Columbus and four buildings on the east side of Columbus are separated by this gigantic mall and tower,'' Mr. Heitner said. ''It's cut off air and light, and eliminated a lot of open space. And with all these people that will be coming to these stores, which are no longer small retail stores, we're concerned about traffic flow and safety, especially with the schools.''
 Other neighbors -- who include residents of the Frederick Douglass Houses, a public housing project to the north -- said they appreciated the new supermarkets, but worried that the area was becoming overdeveloped and losing its ''human scale,'' said Miki Fiegel, the founder of West Siders for Responsible Development and a resident and real estate agent in the area.
 ''Still,'' Ms. Fiegel said, ''having some good businesses there will also mean jobs for local people, and that's a blessing in today's economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO NEED TO BORROW MILK: 808 Columbus Circle, which opened last month, offers renters a roof over their heads and, soon, a Whole Foods Market nearby. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (84%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); T J MAXX (52%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%); WFM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



367 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Debts Coming Due At Just the Wrong Time

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TEN banks slipped out from under the TARP last week, striking deals with the Treasury Department to repay taxpayer money they received last fall. Many bailout-weary investors and taxpayers welcomed this sign that government intervention in the financial sector may finally be receding. 
 It has been a long slog through the credit morass, and investors are understandably eager to think they are emerging onto higher ground. Still, the bad debt that was amassed by consumers and companies in recent years hasn't been fully purged, even with the help of the Troubled Asset Relief Program. And the debt on financial companies' balance sheets must do a lot more shrinking before we can move on from this ugly chapter in financial history. 
 To get a fix on how much work remains to be done, consider the substantial amount of short-term debt coming due at financial companies in the next year or two. As you absorb these figures, keep in mind that many of the entities that bought this debt when it was issued aren't around now -- they've either left the market or are gone, casualties of the crisis. 
 As a result, they're not around to step up and buy the debt again. So issuers can't roll it over. They'll be forced to buy back the debt, at a time when they're already wallowing in other forms of troublesome debt and short on liquidity. 
 Barclays Capital has analyzed financial company debt among United States institutions coming due over the next decade. During the rest of the year, for example, roughly $172 billion in debt will mature; in 2010, an additional $245 billion comes due. That amounts to about $25 billion a month in debt rolling into a market with a shortage of buyers willing to invest in it. 
 The size and nature of this financial services debt -- and the customers who bought it -- are central to the late great credit mania we have just lived through. Banks and other finance companies issued these obligations for relatively short periods -- five years or less -- and paid investors either variable interest rates or the fixed variety. 
 Issuance of this financial debt exploded during the mid-2000s. Back in 1999, paper issued by American financial companies made up 30 percent of Barclays's fixed- and floating-rate corporate debt index. By 2007, this type of debt accounted for almost half of the index. 
 Of the $172 billion coming due by year-end, Barclays says, $123 billion was floating-rate debt. And of the $245 billion maturing next year, some $141 billion pays a variable rate. 
 As you can see, the bulk of this debt consisted of floating-rate obligations. During the mania, these issues were snapped up by a group of relatively new money managers operating special investment vehicles, or S.I.V.'s. 
 S.I.V.'s raised money from investors by selling commercial paper; then they bought residential and commercial mortgages with it, capturing the spread between their cost of money (what they paid investors for commercial paper) and the yield they earned (on mortgages they bought). 
 These S.I.V.'s also bought a slug of bank debt, for its perceived safety and relatively high yields. Barclays estimated that 40 percent of the assets held in these vehicles was in floating-rate debt issued by United States banks.
 The popularity of these special investment vehicles really began to explode in 2004, Barclays reports; that January, they held roughly $125 billion in assets. By 2007, however, some $400 billion sat in S.I.V.'s. Banks were happy to sell their debt to these money machines, but the assembly line broke down in September 2007, when the credit crisis commenced. 
 And, as we noted, few buyers of short-term bank debt are around now. 
 For example, institutions that generated revenue by lending out securities -- their own or their customers' -- took that cash and invested it in these short-term bank obligations. Once again, they captured the spread between their capital costs and interest on the debt they purchased. 
 Now, however, many of these institutions have curtailed the securities lending game. 
 A result, said Ashish Shah, co-head of credit strategy at Barclays Capital, is a supply-and-demand imbalance that means the institutions whose debt is maturing will have to shrink their balance sheets. Some institutions can do this, he said, but for many it won't be easy. 
 ''Some banks have meaningful cash hoards to deal with some of these maturities,'' Mr. Shah said last week. ''They do have assets on the other side that they can shrink. And the other thing to keep in mind here is institutions are taking in deposits at close to record lengths.'' 
 But Mr. Shah said the wave of bank debt coming due could prove problematic if government programs set up to provide liquidity to financial institutions go away. One potent example is the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program offered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; it backs corporate debt issued by bank holding companies in exchange for a fee. 
 The F.D.I.C. has said this program will vanish at the end of October. 
 ''It is a real risk if policy makers sit back and say, 'Things are fine; we don't need to do this stuff anymore,''' Mr. Shah said. ''Things feel like they are getting better in large part because of the policy response. You take away the policy being administered too soon, and you can be in a world of pain.''
 POLICY makers have a tough balancing act to achieve here. On one hand, they want to help financial institutions over a rough patch. But they also have an obligation to taxpayers to withdraw from the business of bank assistance as soon as possible. 
 It is not clear what decisions will be made, of course. If the economy recovers enough, bank balance sheets will look a lot better next year than they do now. But even as many banks have successfully raised equity capital, how they will finance their maturing debt remains a concern. 
 This much is evident: it is too soon to celebrate the end of the banking crisis. Less debt is the answer, but shrinking balance sheets is hard. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



368 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Quita Deodhar, Alvaro Ramirez

 BODY:
Quita Deodhar and Alvaro Ramirez were married Saturday at Wave Hill in Riverdale, the Bronx. The Rev. Martin J. Bancroft Jr., a Roman Catholic priest, officiated. 
 The bride, 30, specializes in marketing and fund-raising activities at the Rohatyn Group, an asset management firm in Manhattan. She graduated cum laude from Tufts. 
 She is a daughter of Anjani Deodhar and Dr. Sudhir Deodhar of Chestnut Ridge, N.Y. Her father is a neurophysiologist at Physiologic Assessment Services, a group practice in Teaneck, N.J. Her mother is the assistant director of food and nutritional services at Summit Park Hospital in Pomona, N.Y.
 The bridegroom, 31, is a vice president at Trimaran Advisors, an investment firm in Manhattan, where he specializes in credit investments for the media and telecommunications industries. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.
 He is a son of Maria Eugenia Ramirez and Alvaro R. Ramirez of Washington. His mother is a resource management officer at the World Bank in Washington. His father retired as the chief of the micro, small and medium enterprise division at the Inter-American Development Bank, and is now a senior associate at Cumpetere, a consulting firm, both in Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER LUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); RELIGION (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



369 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Rags to Riches and Back

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER. 
Ron Lieber writes the Your Money column for The Times.

 BODY:
STREET FIGHTERS
 The Last 72 Hours of Bear Stearns, the Toughest Firm on Wall Street
 By Kate Kelly
 247 pp. Portfolio. $25.95
 HOUSE OF CARDS
 A Tale of Hubris and Wretched Excess on Wall Street
 By William D. Cohan
 468 pp. Doubleday. $27.95
 In March of 2008, during one dramatic week, a crisis of confidence destroyed Bear Stearns, the 85-year-old Wall Street investment bank. 
 The company had taken big risks -- and made huge profits -- on mortgages and securities. It was the first of many prominent firms that would soon crumble after years of high-wire deal making. And by the time the week was over, after furious negotiations and the intervention of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department, the government effectively ordered J. P. Morgan Chase to purchase Bear Stearns for a pittance. 
 Bear Stearns was not Wall Street's biggest or most important firm. But it was certainly singular. Unlike the roster at blue-blood investment banks, Bear's stars tended to be underdogs, people from modest backgrounds and lesser-known schools. Ace Greenberg and Jimmy Cayne, the company's leaders in the years leading up to its demise, were eccentric, often larger-than-life figures. 
 No wonder, then, that more than one writer smelled a story, and dived in quickly to tell the tale of the company and its collapse. 
 In ''Street Fighters: The Last 72 Hours of Bear Stearns, the Toughest Firm on Wall Street,'' Kate Kelly, a Wall Street Journal reporter, takes a you-are-there, just-the-facts view of the final days. And what facts they are. We have reports of Cayne, the Bear Stearns chief executive, smoking pot in the Doubletree Hotel men's room while taking a break from a bridge tournament, which he denies. Then there's his counterpart at J. P. Morgan, Jamie Dimon, frantically trying to reach a vacationing deputy in Anguilla to figure out how or if to make a play for Bear. A ''death squad'' of bankruptcy lawyers prowls the Bear Stearns building, and grown men find themselves in tears or forced to join late-night conference calls while zoned out on sleeping pills.
 Given that we know what happens, Kelly's depiction of the end of Bear Stearns can have the feel of a high-class snuff film. As she spins out the behind-closed-doors machinations, it's hard to turn away from the images of egomaniacal, often bullying Wall Streeters getting their comeuppance. Alas, it can be difficult to tell many of the book's ''street fighters'' apart. Each Bear employee seems scrappier and more working class than the next. And as they whiz around New York City and its suburbs, they blur together. Whom did we leave in Scarsdale, and who headed to Summit? Which one is driving himself (they're all men), and which is in the back of a Town Car? 
 Perhaps Kelly -- who does provide a helpful chart of the cast of characters at the front of the book -- can be forgiven their relative sameness. It's the narrative itself that's the star here, and the twists and turns of those frantic few days make for lively reading. Kelly, whom I met once or twice when I was a reporter at The Wall Street Journal, lived through the whole tale as a beat reporter; in the process, she clearly developed a real affection for many of the people she profiles. (In fact, she dedicates the book to the firm's 14,000 employees -- a decent, humane gesture, but one that's rather off key for someone trying to maintain a professional distance.)
 While telling the story in a book that covers just 72 hours is certainly dramatic, William D. Cohan's ''House of Cards: A Tale of Hubris and Wretched Excess on Wall Street'' reaches further back (and forward) to lay out Bear's rise and fall in much more detail. The first third of the book traces Bear's final days as an independent entity, and Cohan makes a convincing case that it was all but over for the company before Kelly's book even begins.
 He reports that before the fevered negotiations between Bear and J. P. Morgan, word got out that Goldman Sachs was reluctant to engage in a trade involving Bear Stearns. As news of the presumed lack of faith spread among hedge funds, some stopped doing business with Bear entirely. 
 Cohan offers much of this detail in the form of lengthy quotations -- some of them anonymous -- from people who worked at Bear Stearns, the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve. The result reads at times like unedited oral history. And while the events of the final week are riveting enough to excuse such tedium, the enormous amount of space Cohan devotes to the failure of two Bear Stearns hedge funds doesn't add much to the mix. In fact, the middle section of the book, which takes us from 1923 to 2001, can feel like homework.
 Littered throughout this section and the two that sandwich it are the on-the-record recollections of Cayne, Bear's chief executive. Included in his musings are blunt assessments of people he encountered along the way. The observations revealed plenty about Cayne too. Homophobia? Check. Misogyny? Sure. Cohan also helpfully offers up the executive's opinion of Kelly; Cayne uses an anatomical description better left to the Bear Stearns locker room.
 Cohan certainly got Cayne to open up; Kelly apparently did not get him to talk, at least not on the record. But Cayne ultimately comes off as such a megalomaniac that you can't trust his ad hominem ramblings. At points, Cohan allows Cayne to recount his version of events and then contradicts them with recollections from others. 
 It's pretty clear Cohan believes that Cayne played a large role in destroying Bear Stearns. But how important was the company really?
 Both of these books must have seemed like great ideas in the spring of 2008. Who could have imagined, though, that we'd have a few days in September that were exponentially more important? First, Lehman Brothers failed; then Merrill Lynch, worried that it was next, persuaded Bank of America to acquire Merrill outright. The government spent $85 billion to bail out A.I.G., one of the world's largest insurers. In the following month, the stock market fell by about a quarter. 
 At that point, the financial system really was at the brink. And as things worsened throughout 2008, we were reminded that as storied as Bear Stearns was, it was a second-tier bank, making its failure a second-tier event. Now, we have not just one but two books about the company. What the average reader really wants to know is how our economy went to pieces and what we can do to keep it from happening again. Kelly barely attempts to analyze the bigger picture, and Cohan's efforts aren't much more complete. That wasn't what they were trying to do, but it still leaves us waiting for a definitive autopsy of our latest Gilded Age.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOMER HANUKA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CARD GAMES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); WRITERS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: JAMES E CAYNE (58%); JIMMY CAYNE (58%); JAMES DIMON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Street Fighters (Book); House of Cards (Book); Street Fighters (Book); House of Cards (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



370 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DVDS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Everyman, Tempted

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
IN a career that spanned almost 50 years Jack Lemmon was seldom a soothing presence. Sweaty, stammering and hyperactive, Lemmon seemed to embody the countertype of the monumental, granite-jawed leading men of the 1950s -- stars like John Wayne, Robert Mitchum and Gregory Peck. 
 Where Peck, for example, seemed to embody the World War II squadron leader slipping into middle age and forced to operate on the unfamiliar corporate battlefields of Madison Avenue (''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit''), Lemmon was the junior officer eagerly polishing the brass of his superiors (in his Oscar-winning supporting performance in ''Mister Roberts''), a tactic he queasily carried with him into the business world (''The Apartment''). Lemmon's recurring predicament is that of the desperate conformist who ultimately discovers that conformity comes at too high a price. 
 A new boxed set from Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, ''The Jack Lemmon Collection'' offers five of the feature films that Lemmon made for Columbia Pictures from 1954 to 1964, the decade when he developed from a minor stage and television actor into one of Hollywood's biggest box-office draws. 
 Several of Lemmon's best known films of the period -- including ''Mister Roberts'' and the seven movies, among them ''The Apartment'' and ''Some Like It Hot,'' that Lemmon made with the directory Billy Wilder -- were made away from Columbia, and are not included here. But it was at his home studio that Lemmon developed his comic persona and honed his skills in a series of richly evocative if modestly budgeted films. 
 In Mark Robson's ''Phffft'' (1954), the earliest title in this set, shows Lemmon's typical character already well under construction. Based on an unproduced play by George Axelrod that Columbia hoped to get to the screen before Axelrod's similarly plotted Broadway hit, ''The Seven Year Itch,'' could be filmed by Fox, ''Phffft'' casts Lemmon as a prosperous Manhattan tax lawyer whose marriage, to a writer of daytime soap operas (Judy Holliday) has collapsed in a crisis of boredom. After Holliday gets a quickie divorce (''phffft'' was the Broadway columnist Walter Winchell's shorthand for dissolved marriages), Lemmon moves in with his best friend and biggest client, a swinging bachelor playwright played by Jack Carson. 
 In a set-up that eerily anticipates Lemmon's later hit ''The Odd Couple,'' he allows himself to be schooled in the ways of the single life by his more outgoing friend, and in a moment that is clearly meant to get the jump on ''Seven Year Itch,'' practices his rudimentary seduction techniques on a willing blonde bombshell, played by a young Kim Novak, doing her best to capture Marilyn Monroe's breathy, little-girl diction. 
 With the exception of a memorable mambo sequence, much of ''Phffft'' falls flat, thanks to Robson's ungainly direction, but the recurring elements of Lemmon's comedies are settling into place: the longing for sexual adventure confounded by an instinctive commitment to wife and home; the fearsome boss who provokes both craven loyalty and bitter resentment; the temptations of midcentury materialism, as represented by sports cars, stereo equipment and plenteous gin martinis. 
 In ''Operation Mad Ball'' (1957), Lemmon plays a variation on his Oscar-winning role in ''Mister Roberts'' as a sly military fixer. This time he's a hustling private assigned to a medical unit in France immediately after the war, who organizes a wild party as a way for his enlisted buddies, waiting to be shipped back to the States, to mingle with a newly arrived company of attractive nurses. The fearsome boss this time is a by-the-book captain (Lemmon's close friend Ernie Kovacs) who has a boss of his own to kiss up to (Arthur O'Connell as an oblivious colonel). 
 ''Mad Ball'' was the second of Lemmon's six films with the director Richard Quine, Lemmon's most important collaborator after Wilder. A gifted director of comedies and melodramas (''Strangers When We Meet''), Quine eventually found his career overshadowed by that of his longtime writing partner, Blake Edwards, when Edwards began directing as well. But both here and in ''The Notorious Landlady'' (1962), the other Quine-Edwards film in the set, Quine shows a distinctive way of moving his camera for comic emphasis, dollying in on details or reactions, that breaks with the ''invisible'' style of the period.
 ''The Notorious Landlady'' finds Lemmon reunited with Ms. Novak, now a major star in her own right, in a comedy thriller set in London. Back in his role as an uncomfortable conformist, Lemmon is a junior American diplomat who is drawn to his attractive landlady (Ms. Novak) over the protests of his supervisor (Fred Astaire). The film is a bit drawn out but sufficiently diverting, with a morbid undertone that strongly suggests Mr. Edwards's hand. (Lemmon's next film would be the Edwards-directed ''Days of Wine and Roses.'')
 The last two films in the set, ''Under the Yum-Yum Tree'' (1963) and ''Good Neighbor Sam'' (1964) were both directed by the former Disney animator David Swift, and at their best show a cartoonlike emphasis on exaggerated color and movement. Lemmon is said to have despised ''Yum-Yum,'' a fairly repulsive sex comedy that seems to have been inspired by Hugh Hefner's ''Playboy Philosophy'' of conspicuous consumption and compulsive seduction. 
 Miscast in a role originated on Broadway by Gig Young, Lemmon is the proprietor of a Los Angeles apartment complex that he keeps stocked with curvaceous young woman, and he spends much of the movie peeping through windows or listening at keyholes. To Lemmon's lasting disgust the film was one of the biggest hits of his career.
 By comparison ''Good Neighbor Sam'' is a benign sex farce that finds Lemmon happily married (to Dorothy Provine) and living in a middle-class suburb of San Francisco; complications ensue when his wife's old college roommate -- Romy Schneider as a generic ''European'' -- asks Lemmon to pose as her estranged husband in order to fulfill the terms of an inheritance. Amid much slapstick confusion, Lemmon battles temptation both erotic and economic, as his overbearing boss (this time, the great Edward Andrews), who believes him to be a perfect family man, tries to lure him up the corporate ladder of his advertising agency. 
 ''Sam'' was Lemmon's last film under his Columbia contract and seems to represent the end of an era in other ways: the choice between erotic fulfillment and corporate success that animated so many of Lemmon's comedies would come to seem less relevant as the '60s turned into ''The Sixties'' and taboos began to drop. Lemmon's career, of course, continued without a pause. (He won another Oscar, this time for best actor, for playing a different sort of businessman in crisis in the 1973 ''Save the Tiger.'') But his work was never again quite as central to American culture. No longer a symbol, he was simply an artist.
 ALSO OUT THIS WEEK
 FRIDAY THE 13TH From the producer Michael Bay and the director Marcus Nispel, a rejiggering of the 1980s horror series, now with Derek Mears behind the hockey mask. The Blu-ray edition contains both the R-rated theatrical cut and the unrated ''extended killer cut,'' which are available separately in standard definition. ''Granted, most people's notion of entertainment doesn't involve watching sexed-up, beer-guzzling morons impaled, decapitated or burnt alive,'' Nathan Lee wrote in The New York Times in February. ''But there's an itch for this kind of material, and here it is scratched -- to the bone.'' (Warner Home Video, Blu-ray $35.99, standard definition $28.98)
 LOST: THE COMPLETE FIRST SEASON AND LOST: THE COMPLETE SECOND SEASON A Blu-ray upgrade for the first two seasons of the cult television show (2004-6), in which the survivors of a plane crash fight for their lives on a mysterious tropical island. (Disney, $69.99, not rated) 
 THE SEVENTH SEALMax von Sydow is the weary knight returning from a crusade, who meets Death (Bengt Ekerot) on a desolate beach and challenges him to a game of chess. Ingmar Bergman's 1957 art house classic is now even angstier in Blu-ray. ''Essentially intellectual, yet emotionally stimulating too, it is as tough -- and rewarding -- a screen challenge as the moviegoer has had to face this year,'' Bosley Crowther wrote in The Times in 1958. (The Criterion Collection, Blu-ray $39.95, standard definition $29.95, not rated)
 THREE STOOGES COLLECTION, VOL. 6: 1949-1951 Sony continues their admirable commitment to restoring and releasing all 190 of the Three Stooges shorts produced by Columbia Pictures, now moving into the period when Shemp had permanently replaced Curly. Among the 24 two-reelers here are the fan favorites ''Self-Made Maids'' (1950) and ''Scrambled Brains'' (1951). (Sony, $24.96, not rated)
 TYLER PERRY'S MADEA GOES TO JAIL The latest adventures of the gun-wielding grandma; Tyler Perry wrote, directed and stars. With Derek Luke and Keshia Knight Pulliam. A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in February that ''Mr. Perry dutifully gives his audience what it wants, but you can't help feeling that he might also have more to offer: more coherent narratives, smoother direction, better movies.'' (Lionsgate, $29.95, PG-13)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack Lemmon flanked by Dorothy Provine and Romy Schneider in ''Good Neighbor Sam,'' included in a new collection of films Lemmon made for Columbia Pictures from 1954 to 1964. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES HOME ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); LAWYERS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (66%); THEATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



371 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: This Rally May Need a New Source of Fuel

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN early March, when stocks fell to 12-year lows, many investors were confident of at least one thing: stocks were cheap.
 Three months later, after huge gains, that consensus on stock valuations is breaking down. It's quite possible that the rally will soon become a victim of its own swift success.
 Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist for the Charles Schwab brokerage firm, said that after seeing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jump to above 940 from around 675 in just 14 weeks, a market that had been undervalued is now ''fairly valued.'' So a major tailwind that propelled stocks since March has disappeared. 
 ''The initial move of investors back into the market was based on a value call,'' she said. ''You don't have that value call anymore.''
 Based on historical standards, domestic stocks are certainly no longer a bargain, according to Ben Inker, director of asset allocation at GMO, the asset manager based in Boston. 
 ''From a pure valuation perspective, we're in a bit of a gray zone now,'' Mr. Inker said. ''Stocks aren't obviously overvalued, but we can't say they're cheap, either.''
 Valuing equities is always hard, but it is particularly tricky amid an economic downturn of such historic proportions. There is little sense of when the fundamentals of the economy -- including corporate profits -- will recover.
 It's also uncertain how government stimulus efforts will ultimately affect crucial factors like inflation and interest rates, which have a direct impact on share prices.
 Traditionally, the price-to-earnings ratio has been the most commonly used measure for valuing the market. Yet there are several ways to calculate P/E's -- and current economic circumstances make some methods particularly hard to apply.
 For example, a classic technique takes the current price level of the S.& P. 500 and divides that by the earnings of the companies in the index over the preceding 12 months, using generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Based on these figures, the S.& P. has had an average price-to-earnings ratio of 12.6 at the end of bear markets since 1938. 
 But this is no ordinary downturn. Because corporate losses in the fourth quarter of 2008 equaled profits registered in the previous two quarters, the market's overall P/E, based on GAAP earnings, now stands at more than 100. That's pricey by any definition.
 Because profit growth can be so unreliable in a severe recession, some strategists prefer to gauge stock prices by using so-called operating earnings, which exclude one-time write-offs like the expenses associated with closing down a factory or a company division.
 Based on operating earnings, the P/E of the S.& P. 500 is a much more palatable 22 today. But that's still considerably higher than the average of 19 for the past two decades. 
 What's more, there are concerns about how quickly the market's P/E has grown. 
 It's not uncommon for market valuations to rise in the latter stages of a recession, because stock prices tend to move in anticipation of a recovery. That means prices -- or the ''P'' in the P/E ratio -- often recover before earnings do. But they don't usually expand this fast. 
 Ned Davis Research, an investment consulting firm in Venice, Fla., looked at market valuations after bear markets since 1929. The firm found that in the first three months after bear markets, the market's P/E tends to climb by about 10 percent. And the multiple has traditionally expanded 22 percent in the first six months after a major market downturn.
 But since March 9, when the recent rally began, the P/E of the S.& P. 500 has jumped nearly 40 percent. 
 SUCH a surge in P/E ratios may be warranted if the recession ends soon and profits recover quickly.. While there are some signs that the worst of the recession may be behind us, few analysts expect profits to stage a major rebound.
 And, of course, it's still unclear whether the recession and the bear market have ended.
 Still, the stock market looks much less expensive by using other valuation methods.
 For example, instead of adding up all the earnings for S.& P. 500 companies to arrive at a single P/E ratio for the broad market, Ned Davis Research assesses the individual P/E ratios for every stock in the index. Then it determines the median P/E for the whole group -- in other words, it finds the midpoint, such that half of the stocks in the index have a higher P/E and half have a lower one.
 Based on this technique, the P/E of the S.& P. 500 is now at 15.6. That's well above the reading of 12 in March, but still slightly below the market's historical median of 16.5. ''We're not as cheap as we once were, but we're not yet back to normal,'' said Tim Hayes, chief investment strategist at Ned Davis. 
 But even if that technique is the best to use, it still means that the mind-set on Wall Street has shifted. Instead of betting on stocks because of unbelievably cheap prices, many investors are counting on the economy to rebound strongly. 
 In other words, instead of betting on the ''P'' in the P/E ratio, stock investors are banking on the ''E.'' But at today's prices, says Mr. Inker at GMO, ''You're not getting paid a ton for taking on risk.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); ACCOUNTING (65%); CLOSINGS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



372 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ENDPAPER; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Bridge to Somewhere

BYLINE: By EMILY BIUSO

 BODY:
 The photographer Jamey Stillings was driving from his New Mexico home to Nevada in March when he came upon an overwhelming sight: construction of the 1,900-foot-long Colorado River Bridge, part of the Hoover Dam Bypass project. He has been photographing it ever since. 
 This shot was taken from a helicopter one hazy, bright dawn in May. The new four-lane bridge will mean that commercial vehicles traveling between Phoenix and Las Vegas will no longer take the scenic route -- the winding, narrow roadway, built in 1936, that leads across the dam. Set to be completed next year, the $114 million bridge will be supported by the longest concrete arch in the country. Construction started in 2005, before Americans faced a troubled economy, but as Stillings says, ''The notion of spanning that canyon ends up being very symbolic of where we are right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMEY STILLINGS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (88%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (73%) NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



373 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Better Schools? Here Are Some Ideas

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Five Ways to Fix America's Schools'' (Op-Ed, June 8):
 Harold O. Levy proposed five ways to improve higher education, particularly through cutting high school dropout rates, increasing college attendance and reducing the need for remedial education. He didn't include one of the most powerful ways to accomplish this: raising the quality of our high school teacher corps. 
 Study after study shows that the most potent school-based intervention in raising student graduation rates and academic achievement is strong teachers. So instead of adopting the advertising lessons of for-profit higher education, as Mr. Levy suggests, it might be more helpful to invest in raising teacher salaries, which would attract the highest-performing students -- currently applying to Teach for America in legions -- to careers in teaching.
 It would also be helpful if unions worked with school systems to make it easier to remove failing teachers. Rather than create online teacher preparation programs, it would be desirable to make teacher education more rigorous, base it in public schools and strengthen teachers' knowledge of their subject matter. 
 By raising the quality of our teacher force and strengthening teacher preparation, we would certainly increase high school graduation rates, improve students' academic achievement and raise college attendance rates.
 Arthur Levine Princeton, N.J., June 8, 2009
 The writer, president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, is president emeritus of Teachers College, Columbia University.
 To the Editor:
 Harold O. Levy's first three proposals call for external force, pressure and inducement to get students to spend more time in school. He recommends an extension of compulsory schooling up to age 19 (with longer days and school years), ''high-pressure sales tactics'' (that can ''overwhelm the consumer's will'') to curb truancy, and aggressive advertising to spur college enrollment. 
 Nowhere does he mention students' experience of schooling, including the likelihood that more time in today's test-driven institutions will further deaden their enthusiasm for learning.
 America's schools won't improve by simply demanding or coaxing students to spend more time in them. We must, instead, heed great educational and cognitive scholars like John Dewey, Maria Montessori and Jean Piaget and make students' curiosity and inner urge to learn the centerpiece of educational reform.
 William Crain New York, June 8, 2009
 The writer is a professor of psychology at City College, CUNY.
 To the Editor:
 I was frustrated by Harold O. Levy's suggestions as to how to ''fix'' our public education system. He misses the core issue completely. It does not involve branding, longer compulsory education or high-pressure ''sales'' tactics. Rather, students have expressed a need to possess a coherent and integrated meaning for the very education we are transmitting.
 With the economy in a state of disequilibrium, with very few career paths offering any guarantees, and with no coherent explanation of ''What's this all about?,'' adults should instead be challenged to seek out meaning and wisdom by which to integrate the educational process. 
 Educators around the world and I have applied what is known as integral education methods whereby we can create a neutral framework into which we place every aspect of every subject so that both we and our students understand how they relate to and fit with other parts of their education. 
 Only if we come to understand why we are doing what we are doing in the classroom every day will our students care about what they are doing and care enough to stay the course to graduation.
 Lynne D. Feldman Upper Saddle River, N.J.
 June 8, 2009
 The writer is a retired teacher.
 To the Editor:
 Harold O. Levy suggested five disparate ways to improve the educational system in America's schools. Only one of his suggestions, however, even remotely touched on the most fundamental aspect of this daunting challenge: improving our youngest students' reading skills as a means of instilling self-confidence and an interest in learning.
 This is something that can be addressed now, without the major financing and structural changes needed to truly reform the system. 
 The involvement of parents, teachers, volunteers and organizations focused on this specific task can, and should, be emphasized and developed during the years it will take to achieve Mr. Levy's other objectives.
 Robert Dinerstein New York, June 10, 2009
 The writer is chairman of Everybody Wins!, a nonprofit literacy and mentoring organization.
 To the Editor:
 Many parents of bright students are horrified at the thought of extending the school day. For bright students, learning doesn't ''end at 3 p.m.'' To the contrary, it only starts when they're released from classrooms where they're forced to sit through rote lessons aimed at bringing struggling classmates up to ''proficiency.''
 An alternative suggestion: Allow advanced learners to leave school an hour early, providing them the time they're not getting during the day to develop their abilities and work on appropriately challenging material. This would also allow teachers to give more individualized attention to the struggling students remaining in the classroom. Win-win.
 Susan Goodkin Executive Director California Learning Strategies Center Ventura, Calif., June 8, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Harold O. Levy's proposal leaves out essential considerations for improving the educational process. Perhaps a better approach for reducing truancy than the proposal for using ''high-pressure sales tactics'' is to examine the quality and relevancy of instruction in schools that have high rates of truancy. 
 Mr. Levy mentions President Obama's calling for parents to get more involved in their children's studies. In fact, many parents get involved. Identifying the socioeconomic conditions that uninvolved parents face should lead us to conceive of the educational process as extending far beyond formal schooling and taking into account institutions and cultural dynamics that function as strategic barriers to more effective schools. 
 To put the matter more plainly, let us be reminded that poverty is an educational process. Jobs for all at living wages, please.
 Richard La Brecque Bradenton, Fla., June 8, 2009
 The writer is professor emeritus of policy studies in education, University of Kentucky.
 To the Editor:
 Harold O. Levy's proposal of longer mandatory schooling guarantees the issuance of additional diplomas without improving their woeful state. Such requirements measure ''time in seat'' without addressing the root problem that educated minds are not assembly-line products our schools try to manufacture.
 Students would be better served by dismantling the one-size-fits-all high school. Charter schools and vouchers are the best available tools to encourage multiple methods and curriculums to meet students' disparate needs. There are many causes of America's educational problems, but providing more parents with options currently limited to the affluent can only help.
 Philip Stanton Champaign, Ill., June 8, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Harold O. Levy's plan was based on the old formula of spending more while doing more of the same. He doesn't adequately address some of the fundamental concerns affecting education. 
 His suggestion that students stay in school longer does nothing to help the 7,000 students who drop out daily. Hiring more truant officers to put pressure on those not attending school doesn't address the reasons for their not coming. Perhaps the curriculum is not relevant, engaging or challenging. 
 Public school teachers are forced by federal and state laws to follow a basic curriculum that emphasizes test scores rather than real learning.
 Colleges need to work with school districts in attracting their best students to their campuses. While Mr. Levy's article does bring an important issue to the forefront, his solution to a complex problem is overly simplistic. 
 Philip S. Cicero North Bellmore, N.Y., June 9, 2009
 The writer, a retired superintendent of schools, is an adjunct professor of education at Adelphi University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (71%); SALES PLAN (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); WOODROW WILSON NATIONAL FELLOWSHIP FOUNDATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



374 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: In Downturn, Teams Get Their Day

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

DATELINE: LITTLE FALLS, N.J. 

 BODY:
 The fans filed into Yogi Berra Stadium here one recent evening to watch the minor-league New Jersey Jackals take on Quebec's Les Capitales. But before they heard the vendors hawking peanuts and Cracker Jack, they got a more unusual pitch.
 ''Step right up! Let the Jackals pay your mortgage,'' yelled a team official. 
 Before even looking toward the field, many fans who heard the cry rushed to fill out slips for a drawing held after the seventh inning on the roof of the Jackals' dugout. The eagerness was understandable; the winner would receive two months of rent or mortgage payments, up to $4,000. 
 This Mortgage Mondays raffle is among a number of new marketing strategies the team has devised to boost attendance. On Flyaway Fridays, a fan is selected to receive free plane tickets to anywhere in the country. On Twofer Tuesdays and Thirsty Thursdays, there are $1 drink specials. And so on. 
 ''We came up with them as an incentive for everyone going through these tough economic times,'' said J. B. Kritz, 23, a team official, who zipped around the stadium, at Montclair State University, tending to an array of Jackals giveaways and sideshows.
 Minor-league ball has never been an easy business, with profits elusive and team ownership changing often. Without marquee names and media exposure, teams rely on energetic marketing to lure fans. The challenge can be even tougher for the Jackals and about a dozen other minor-league teams in and around New York City, with its wealth of competing entertainment opportunities. 
 At first blush, the recession and the debut of new stadiums for the Mets and Yankees would seem to make this hard business harder. But many local teams, including the Newark Bears, the Long Island Ducks and the Jackals, are striving to turn both developments into an advantage. 
 Given the high prices at the new major-league stadiums, for example, minor-league executives often point out how many seats and sodas at their ballparks a fan could buy for the price of one premium Mets or Yankees ticket. (The arithmetic is impressive: a seat behind the dugout here costs $10, compared to $1,250 at Yankee Stadium.) ''It's been a godsend for us,'' Mr. Kritz said of the prices at Yankee Stadium and CitiField, which he sees as part of the reason Jackals sales have jumped. ''It's tougher for a family to go, so they're opting to stay in their own backyard.''
 Attendance is up for the Staten Island Yankees, too, and team officials attribute it to the troubled economy driving consumers to seek a bigger bang for each dollar. The team, a Yankees affiliate, expects to sell out a record 30 of its 76 regular-season games this year, according to the team president, Joe Ricciutti.
 ''During a recession, people don't want to throw money away on other entertainment choices,'' he said. ''They want an evening of value.''
 Like the Jackals, the Staten Island Yankees offer a variety of promotions. One ticket package, the Pinstripe Plan, includes an all-you-can-eat stadium food deal as well as a free ticket to a major-league Yankees game and priority status for buying other New York Yankee tickets.
 Teams also push the kind of perks that big-league teams do not usually offer: Walk on our field after the game; meet our players; collect autographs; win door prizes; park free. 
 Vince Gennaro, a baseball consultant and author of ''Diamond Dollars: The Economics of Winning in Baseball,'' said the fancy new big-league ballparks help the minor-league teams by increasing general excitement about the sport, noting that the majors and the minors differ in their fundamental economics.
 ''With Yankee Stadium, you're paying for the mystique,'' Mr. Gennaro said. ''With the minor leagues, the whole positioning is for families. If you want to sit in the sun and just be at a ballgame, that's for you.''
 Seeking out families is one element of the success of the Long Island Ducks, who have played to capacity crowds at the 6,002-seat Citibank Park in Central Islip, N.Y., since their opening season in 1998.
 ''And we're confident we'll do it again this year,'' said Michael Pfaff, the Ducks' general manager.
 Echoing Mr. Gennaro, Mr. Pfaff said that the Ducks, also an unaffiliated team, do not consider major-league teams their rivals.
 ''We don't compete with the Mets or the Yankees,'' he said. ''We compete with the movie theaters.'' 
 But Mr. Kritz of the Jackals organization said he wants to go nose-to-nose with the big leaguers.
 ''Our slogan this year is 'major-league fun at minor-league prices,' '' he said. ''A suburban family, with gas, tax and tolls, can spend hundreds of dollars for the cheapest seats at Yankee Stadium, or they can come here for $10 apiece and get our best seats. We don't have Derek Jeter or A-Rod, but twice a year, we have Yogi signing your ticket stub.'' 
 (Yogi Berra is scheduled to be at Wednesday's game for one of this season's Yogi Nights.)
 Another draw for the Jackals is veterans who have made their mark in the majors. One of their coaches, Ed Ott, played for the Pittsburgh Pirates with the fabled Willie Stargell, and their closing pitcher is the colorful journeyman Rusty Tucker, who in 2006 made the San Diego Padres roster.
 And then there are Mortgage Mondays. Two more are scheduled, for July 13 and Aug. 10. The first winner, Patricia Beesley of Paterson, N.J., said she and her husband had just finished paying off their mortgage and would use the $4,000 to buy Jackals tickets for disabled children. 
 Of course, even if the local minor-league teams do manage to benefit from the recession and the high prices at the new stadiums, they are still bare-bones operations. At the Jackals organization, Mr. Kritz is one of four full-time employees marshaling a group of part-time workers and interns.
 ''We do everything,'' Mr. Kritz said. ''Some days, I may clean the bathrooms, sing the national anthem -- Canadian and U.S. -- and then make sure garbage is taken out.'' 
 Mr. Kritz says his official job title -- sales representative/media and community relations coordinator -- hardly covers all his duties. 
 ''I pick up players at the airport. I assemble their beds in our housing. When I'm done at my desk, I may run to the clubhouse to make sure the players have a meal after practice. I had to search for player's cellphones. You name it.''
 Then there are the chores involved in all those promotions. The Jackals have Beatles Night, and a hat giveaway on Father's Day. On Family Fun Day Sundays, hot dogs are 50 cents and children get to run the bases and play catch on the field after the game. And, after every Saturday night game, there is a fireworks show.
 ''That's where the line gets drawn,'' Mr. Kritz said of his many duties. ''I'm not allowed to set off fireworks.'' 
 Play Ball!
 Nicknamed the Baby Bombers, the Yankees edged out their rivals, the Brooklyn Cyclones, a Mets affiliate, in their division last year.
 WHERE Richmond County Bank Ballpark, St. George, Staten Island
 MAJOR LEAGUE AFFILIATION New York Yankees
 2008 RECORD 49-26 (first of four teams)
 STADIUM CAPACITY 7,171
 PRICE TAG Seat behind home plate: $14
 TEAM MASCOTS Three cows, including Scooter the Holy Cow, named for Phil Rizzuto, the shortstop and announcer known for exclaiming, ''Holy cow!''
 NOTABLE PLAYER Jason Anderson pitched briefly for the New York Yankees.
 SAMPLE PROMOTION In the Manhattan Beer Dream Suite experience, fans can register to win 20 tickets to watch a game from a luxury suite, with limo service and free food and drink.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INTIMACY: The New Jersey Jackals third baseman, Myron Leslie, pleases fans at Yogi Berra Stadium in Montclair, N.J., less than 25 miles from Yankee Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); MARKETING STRATEGY (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



375 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN SOUTHPORT, CONN.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: An Enclave for One's Inner Scarlett

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IF a row of tall white columns across the front of a building is a measure of its exclusivity, as the facade of the White House might suggest, Southport is a pretty rarefied place. 
 Buildings with grooved pillars and curlicue capitals line thoroughfares like Westway and Old South Roads in Southport, a waterfront enclave of Fairfield, Conn. The buildings are often framed by bluestone sidewalks and fenced with fishbone-thin pickets. 
 A five-column Greek Revival, so-called for its resemblance to the Parthenon, puffs out its chest next door to the neighborhood's library. And Southport's flyspeck of a downtown has another one, in red brick.
 That distinguished look comes at a cost. First-timers may have a hard time buying in Southport, as there is little available for under $500,000, and many houses with views of the sailboat-lined harbor can top $5 million. 
 In the historic district, which covers about a quarter of the properties, architectural modifications can become a source of contention between homeowners and Fairfield's historic district commission. These aren't ordinary disagreements, either. In the last few years, as development pressures have grown, conflicts over whether barns could be relocated or shutters removed have ended up before judges, with the town usually coming out on top. 
 That was certainly the case with the Greek Revival towering over a rise on Harbor Road, whose owner, Andrew Hall, decided in 2003 to adorn his front lawn with an 80-foot-long concrete-and-steel sculpture weighing six tons.
 The commission declared that by its sheer volume, the work qualified as a structure, and thus required a special permit -- which Mr. Hall never fully applied for and most likely never would have been granted. In 2007, after a four-year standoff, the state Supreme Court sided with the commission, forcing Mr. Hall to have the sculpture removed. 
 Sean Martin, who lives just outside the historic district, had no issues at all with town officials when, in 2004, he decided to raze his split-level to put up a two-story Shingle-style house. 
 The new house has four bedrooms, four and a half baths, cherry built-ins, coffered ceilings and about 3,500 square feet of space. It cost about $1.2 million to build, Mr. Martin said, estimating its current value at $1.3 million.
 ''I like to have freedom myself,'' said Mr. Martin, an investment banker. ''But I understand the town likes to protect its history and culture.''
 That culture prizes architectural conformity -- which puts it at odds with areas like Greens Farms, a waterside section of Westport, where homes tend to be larger and flashier by orders of magnitude, said Kim Palmer. She has lived in Southport for 16 years and loves the low-key ambience of places like Ye Yacht Yard, a town marina. 
 Ms. Palmer has a 1970s clapboard colonial, with five bedrooms, four baths and about 3,500 square feet of space, on a little over an acre. It cost $450,000 in 1993, when she moved to Connecticut from Los Angeles, she said. She puts its current value at three times that price.
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Southport, which has an area of about three and a half square miles and a population of 5,000, is shaped like a rectangle. By most definitions, it stretches from winding pasture-lined back roads down to Long Island Sound.
 The southern waterside section recalls Edgartown on Martha's Vineyard; both have tightly packed houses close to the street fringed with vivid blue hydrangeas. And both were once populated by sea captains; Southport's set out to market with local crops -- potatoes, onions and apples.
 It was during the neighborhood's maritime heyday, in the 19th century, that most of its textbook-caliber Italianate, Stick and Queen Anne homes went up. To gain space for them, their builders had to fill in marshland. 
 Tree cover is plentiful, though the noise from Interstate 95 and from fairly frequent trains is audible even on Southport Beach -- one of a pair available to town residents for a $18 a year. The other, Sasco Beach, abuts prestigious Sasco Hill Road, a thickly hedged area that values its privacy. 
 Newer homes can be found in the northern part of the neighborhood; there are Capes and the occasional ranch, but the colonial is the style most typically seen. Range and Flintlock Roads have a variety of them -- part of a 1990s Toll Brothers subdivision with differentiating details like half-circle fanlight windows and stepped eaves. 
 But Southport's prosperous appearance hasn't protected it from economic woes. Over the last year, brokers say, about half a dozen homes underwent short sales to avoid foreclosure. 
 Similarly, some residents see the housing downturn as the most likely reason for the loss of Village Hardware, a local institution dating to 1897; it closed its doors in January.
 Hard times probably hit hardest at Southport Green, a 4.4-acre mixed-use development on the Old Post Road, which had been poised to open in 2006 with offices, hotel rooms and condominiums. Shortly after, the lender, TD Banknorth, foreclosed on Southport Village Partners, the developer, which said the project had fallen victim to slow sales and construction delays. 
 Part of the project has since been salvaged, however, and in the next few weeks 24 condo units, ranging in size from two to five bedrooms, will be reintroduced to the market, said Terry Keegan, a broker handling sales. 
 Over all, condos make up about 10 percent of Southport's housing stock; many are found in Southport Woods, a two-story collection of 1970s brick buildings with 140 units. 
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 In the first quarter of 2006, at the market's peak, eight Southport homes sold at an average price of $963,638, according to the Greater Fairfield County Consolidated Multiple Listing Service.
 In the first quarter of 2009, three homes sold at an average of $628,517 -- a 35 percent drop, the data show. Homes are taking 140 days to sell, versus 80 days in 2006.
 Of the 82 homes and condos on the market in early June, the priciest was a $15.5 million six-bedroom dating to 1854; the most affordable was a $329,000 two-bedroom condo.
 Activity has picked up recently, with seven contracts having been signed in June, according to Simon FitzPatrick, an agent with William Raveis Real Estate. But most are properties under $1 million. ''It's still difficult to get a conforming loan for high-level homes,'' Mr. FitzPatrick said.
 THE COMMUTE
 Southport's stop on the Metro-North Railroad's New Haven line has five trains to New York from 6 to 8 a.m. weekdays. Monthly tickets cost $301.84 online; the trip to Grand Central Terminal takes 68 to 87 minutes. 
 For the 42 reserved parking spaces at the station, there is a projected wait time of 12 years, said Cynthia Placko, the manager of the Fairfield Parking Authority. Six-month permits cost $115. Bike lockers cost $12.50 for six months.
 WHAT TO DO
 There is plenty of members-only recreation at places like the Pequot Yacht Club. But the neighborhood also has public spaces like Perry Park, which on a recent afternoon had picnickers.
 On weekends, Pequot Avenue teems with runners and bikers -- and with police officers cracking down on speeders to keep the road safe. The road is also a favorite of motorcyclists from the Free to Ride club, whizzing by en route to the Horseshoe Cafe.
 Lacrosse is popular. The Wakeman Boys and Girls Club, which recently added an artificial turf field, offers games in spring leagues and summer camps, while Fairfield University's lacrosse games draw spectators like Ms. Palmer, whose three children all play. Brokers say a sports store specializing in lacrosse gear is to take over Village Hardware's former berth.
 THE SCHOOLS
 The schools stack up well against others in the state. The Mill Hill School enrolls 475 students in kindergarten through Grade 5. On 2008's mastery tests, 78 percent of fourth-graders met goals in math, 89 percent in reading, and 92 percent in writing. Statewide, the percentages were 61, 56 and 63 percent.
 At Tomlinson Middle School, 84 percent of eighth-graders met goals in math, 86 percent in reading, and 87 percent in writing -- versus 61, 65 and 63 percent statewide. 
 Fairfield Ludlowe High School, one of two in town, has 1,362 students. SAT averages last year were 549 in math, 542 in reading and 558 in writing, versus 507, 503 and 506 statewide.
 THE HISTORY
 It may not be an accident that many houses resemble Southern plantations. In the 19th century, Southport traded with Savannah, Ga., and Charleston, S.C., where many families had relatives, according to V. Louise Higgins, a local historian. Some residents may also have been Confederate sympathizers, Ms. Higgins added, noting that unlike many area towns, Southport and Fairfield have no Civil War monuments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EVOCATIVE: The plantation style may be no coincidence in Southport, a waterfront section of Fairfield. According to a local historian, the area had trade ties in the 19th century with Savannah, Ga., and Charleston, S.C., where many families had relatives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Southport, Conn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORY (73%); SCULPTURE (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); JUDGES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



376 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: At Talks, Geithner Says It Is Too Soon to Pull Back on Stimulus

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Despite growing signs that the world economy is stabilizing, it is still too early to begin scaling back government efforts to support the global financial system, Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, said Saturday after a meeting of the Group of 8 finance ministers in Italy. 
 ''Where we have seen improvements, they are the result of the unprecedented scope and intensity of policy actions to support demand and financial repair,'' Mr. Geithner said in a statement. ''These early signs of improvement are encouraging, but the global economy is still operating well below potential, and we still face acute challenges.''
 Talk is already turning to what economists are calling the ''exit strategy'' on how to cut looming deficits and rein in spending without leading back to recession. 
 The finance ministers said they ''discussed the need to prepare strategies for unwinding the extraordinary policy measures taken to respond to the crisis once the recovery is assured.'' 
 They did not identify any particular measures, like cutting spending, raising taxes or reducing borrowing. Instead, the G-8 ministers said they had asked the International Monetary Fund to help plan exit strategies.
 This week, the White House is expected to lay out a new regulatory plan aimed at curbing the excess of borrowing and risk-taking that is widely blamed for contributing to the crisis, with new rules aimed at markets in the United States as well as overseas. 
 Like the United States, other large industrialized nations are also pushing for common rules on transparency, borrowing practices and other measures to better regulate the financial system. Taking the name from the Italian town where Saturday's meeting was held, the ministers adopted what they called the Lecce Framework, identifying areas where they hope to achieve consensus on improving regulation of the international finance system. 
 New figures for industrial production released Friday in Europe were worse than expected and underscored the view that Europe is still lagging behind the United States and Asia in terms of recovery. The G-8 ministers, however, echoed the view of Mr. Geithner that their economies are also showing signs of stabilization. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



377 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: The Changeover to Digital TV Gets Off to a Smooth Start, Mostly

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER; Mindy Sink contributed reporting from Denver, John Dougherty from Reno, Nev., and Thayer Evans from Houston.

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
As the clock ticked down on the decade-long $2 billion effort to convert the nation's television signals to digital, Kevin Freeman bided his time on a park bench here. 
 Mr. Freeman, 53, who lives in a shelter, was waiting to see whether he would win a donated converter box at a raffle put on by a community group. 
 ''I'm just waiting here, hoping to get lucky,'' he said, lest he miss ''CSI'' or the morning news. 
 Mr. Freeman was one of the millions of people directly affected by the government-mandated transition, as local television stations stopped broadcasting in analog by the Friday midnight deadline, ushering in a new era of crystal-clear digital TV. 
 For most viewers, the transition amounted to a minor hiccup at most. But the industry estimated that 12 million homes had not installed the necessary converter boxes, putting them at risk of losing TV altogether.
 Across the country, television stations set up help lines and community organizations held events to aid confused viewers. Most stations didn't receive the flood of calls they had expected, a sign that the transition was smoother than many had predicted. 
 Mike Burgess, the general manager of KOB in Albuquerque, said he had braced himself for calls when the station switched at 5 a.m. on Friday. According to Nielsen, Albuquerque had the highest rate of unprepared viewers of any market in the country. Acknowledging his surprise, he said the station had logged only three calls in the first digital hours. 
 ''One of 'em was, when's your weather guy coming back from vacation?'' he said. 
 As of Saturday evening, the station had received about 150 calls.
 Most American households now pay for television through a cable or satellite company. They were mostly unaffected by the switch, which will allow state-of-the-art wireless services and emergency communications to exist on the newly available analog spectrum space. 
 But millions still watch free TV with an antenna, and they have borne the burden of the digital transition. While TV is primarily an entertainment medium, government officials are emphasizing its use in emergencies. Frank Michel, the communications director for the Houston mayor's office, said TV access was vital for the coming hurricane season. 
 ''It is a public safety issue for us here in the Gulf Coast area,'' he said.
 In Minneapolis, Mr. Freeman had applied twice to the government coupon program to subsidize the cost of the box, but his requests were rejected. Amalia Deloney, an organizer at the Minneapolis raffle, said some of the most vulnerable pockets of viewers were denied coupons because they live in multiple-family dwellings. The government allotted two coupons for each home address.
 Another hopeful winner in line here, Selena Underwood, 43, sounded a cynical note about the change. ''They're saying we're in recession, but they're still making people buy boxes,'' she said, shrugging her shoulders. Ms. Underwood, who can't afford cable, complained that the conversion was ''just another way to get money out of people.''
 Experts warned that the transition would leave disproportionate numbers of non-English speakers and poor people without television. ''I don't think people get urgent about it until they realize they aren't going to get TV anymore,'' said Stephanie Staudacher, whose company in Fort Collins, Colo., provided help to viewers through a contract with the Federal Communications Commission. Ms. Staudacher said most of her callers were elderly and retired, often on a fixed income. 
 The F.C.C. said 4,000 operators were available at 1-888-CALL-FCC to help people who awoke on Saturday and found their TV sets crippled. The full effects will probably not be felt for days, perhaps until Nielsen ratings show whether some percentage of viewers have stopped tuning in.
 Michael J. Copps, the acting chairman of the F.C.C., said the ''overwhelming majority of households'' were ready for the transition. Still, he acknowledged that it represented a ''great challenge'' for some viewers.
 To offer help, F.C.C. representatives have essentially walked door to door at places like housing projects and senior centers, said Roger Goldblatt, an F.C.C. field director.
 The F.C.C. said it answered 317,000 calls on Friday. The most common questions were about the coupon program (which continues through July 31) and box installations.
 Many of the calls concerned the rescanning of TV sets. The F.C.C. says that over-the-air viewers must rescan their sets to pick up the new digital signals that are being powered on.
 ''Ultimately, this gets solved one viewer at a time,'' said Nick Matesi, general manager for the ABC affiliate KOLO in Reno, Nev., which made the transition in January.
 The F.C.C. will concentrate its post-transition work on Spanish-language communities. 
 Great fanfare accompanied some stations as they switched. In Minneapolis, a PBS station showed a farewell video hosted by a retired schoolteacher who was the first person to appear on the station's analog air 59 years earlier. In Colorado Springs, a CBS station invited a local vocal ensemble to perform the national anthem. 
 As with the transition from typewriter to a computer, the digital TV switch revealed a number of unexpected side effects. Because digital signals are more apt to be affected by interference, many viewers in rural areas said they could see fewer stations than before. 
 ''Digital signals are sometimes more finicky than analog signals,'' said Rick Kaplan, an F.C.C. spokesman. ''It may take some time to find the exact right position for your antenna.''
 Tim Downey, a resident of Severna Park, Md., between Washington and Baltimore, said his rabbit ears reliably picked up seven to nine stations before the switch, but only one -- PBS and its three subchannels -- afterward. 
 ''I was better off before the elimination of analog television,'' he said. He added ruefully that the digital pictures were crystal-clear, but only ''when I can get them.''
 The F.C.C. said many perceived reception problems could be solved with a phone call to its help line.
 Eden Eskin, 71, a Manhattan resident who struggled to receive the ABC, CBS and PBS stations in New York with her new high-definition set, bitterly called the switch a ''stimulus package for cable companies.'' 
 In central Houston, Edward and Juanita Perry sat on the porch of their white row house with peeling paint on Friday afternoon unworried about not being prepared for digital TV. The retired couple had a voucher for a free converter box that they received last week, but they had yet to redeem it.
 ''It don't bother me,'' said Mr. Perry, 64, a retired truck driver. ''I can do without it. Two or three nights won't kill me.''
 Ms. Perry said she was actually looking forward to being without television for a while.
 ''Silence is golden,'' she said. ''I'll catch up on silence.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jesse Jankowski, a technician from Geek Squad, installed a digital converter box on Friday at a home in Salem, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A16)
 In Brooklyn, Steven Langan, right, helped Bill and Kitty Bigin with the digital TV transition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); MAYORS (72%); WEATHER (71%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



378 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Bridging the Gap

BYLINE: By HENRY PETROSKI. 
Henry Petroski is a professor of civil engineering and history at Duke University. He is working on a book about the role that engineers must play in solving global problems.

 BODY:
As the economic stimulus bill was being pushed through Congress in January, the American Society of Civil Engineers rushed to release its latest report card for the nation's infrastructure. The grades were dismal, with the highest mark a C-plus for how we deal with solid waste. Five categories -- including roads, drinking water and levees -- received a D-minus. Overall, America scored a D (equivalent to ''poor''), and the estimated cost of improving the nation's infrastructure to acceptable levels was $2.2 trillion over five years.
 About $130 billion of the money in the stimulus bill is expected to be spent on infrastructure. Even if that amount were spent annually for the next five years, it would still be less than a third of what is needed. But money is not the only area where the nation's infrastructure falls short. Our roads and bridges are crumbling, yes, but most are also mediocre, reflecting neither engineering sense nor architectural sensibility. 
 It need not be this way. In the midst of the Great Depression, Conde McCullough, the state bridge engineer in Oregon, oversaw the design and construction of a series of graceful concrete and steel bridges along the state's Pacific Coast Highway. They stand today as delights to see and use, and they demonstrate that essential structures need not be aesthetically inferior. Likewise, the Brooklyn Bridge is an outstanding example of how engineering can rise to the level of art. John Roebling's thoughtful use of stone and steel combined the best of the old and the new to create an enduring masterpiece. 
 Of course, not all engineering projects balance form and function so well. Just upriver from the iconic Brooklyn Bridge is the unfortunate Williamsburg Bridge. Designed with less concern for aesthetics than the Brooklyn, the Williamsburg was heralded as the longest suspension bridge in the world when it opened in 1903. This ill-proportioned, utilitarian assemblage of stark steel has served the city for more than 100 years, but it has done so without grace. It is an unfortunate emblem of the purely functional public-works project. 
 The Manhattan Bridge is flawed for the opposite reason. After the disappointment of the Williamsburg Bridge, city officials wisely delayed the Manhattan Bridge project to reconsider its structural and aesthetic design. Finally opened in 1909, it has stood for a century between the Williamsburg and Brooklyn Bridges, as if trying to obstruct a direct comparison between the two. Still, however successful architecturally the Manhattan Bridge may be, it did not age well structurally. Because the subway tracks are located near the sides of the bridge deck, the structure twists each time a heavy train crosses over. This repeated flexing, aggravated by unchecked corrosion, hastened the deterioration of the structure, which required considerable rehabilitation -- a project that is continuing. 
 For years now we have known that significant parts of our infrastructure are dated in both appearance and operation, but it has generally taken catastrophic structural failures to focus our attention on the problem. On Aug. 1, 2007, the Interstate 35 W bridge across the Mississippi River in Minneapolis collapsed, killing 13 people and injuring 145. Had that structure not failed, there might still be talk of the need to replace it, and the process of doing so might have continued for a decade or more. But public outrage coupled with political will can do wonders. A new Interstate 35 W bridge opened on Sept. 18, 2008, three months ahead of schedule. The resulting structure is as elegant as it is technically advanced.
 The new Minneapolis crossing is a ''smart'' bridge, so-called not only because it is so handsome but also because it has incorporated into its fabric inconspicuous devices that monitor its condition, including whether it is corroding, cracking or being overloaded. Temperature sensors in the pavement control the application of antifreeze to keep the roadway free of ice. Such technology added less than 1 percent to the initial cost of the bridge and will in fact save money over time. 
 The Interstate 35 W bridge might not have turned out so well if conventional infrastructure procedures had been followed, with separate calls for bids to first design and then to construct the replacement bridge, with the contracts going to the low bidders. Instead, the process was set up to award both the designing and the building of the project to a single team. More important, the Minnesota Department of Transportation gave the contract not to the lowest bidder but to the team that it deemed had proposed the most attractive design and that it judged to be the most reliable for doing what was promised. 
 Older bridges do not have smart technology built into them, of course, but updating aging structures provides the opportunity to incorporate it. San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge, which opened in 1937, has been upgraded to make it able to withstand a major earthquake. The instrumentation now mounted on the bridge provides a diagnostic tool to assess whether the bridge would be safe to carry traffic after a big one hits. Even in areas where earthquakes are not a threat, similar technology may be used increasingly in anticipation of possible terrorist attacks on iconic structures. 
 Bridges are not the only components of our threatened infrastructure, but they are among the most visible and fragile ones. They are also the most representative, capable of being as banal as the Williamsburg or as transcendent as the Brooklyn. Increasingly, new bridges are expected to be hallmarks of cities large and small, which means that closer attention is being paid to their appearance, not just their price. In designing his Brooklyn Bridge, John Roebling saw it as more than a roadway across a river. By putting its walkway above the traffic, he created one of the grandest pedestrian experiences in the world. Such thoughtfulness makes great infrastructure -- and it is worth the cost. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new Interstate 35 W bridge in Minneapolis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN BRUCE WILLIAMS) CHART: 12% of the nation's bridges are structurally deficient.(SOURCE (TOP LEFT): DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, DECEMBER 2008)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY MR. BINGO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (92%); INFRASTRUCTURE (91%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); CITIES (61%); CITY GOVERNMENT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



379 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; EDITOR'S LETTER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 471 words

BYLINE: By GERALD MARZORATI

 BODY:
The magazine you are holding is 9 percent smaller -- a little off the top, a little off the sides -- than the issue you held last week. This is not the first cut of the ''trim'' size of The New York Times Magazine in its 100-yearplus history. That makes it no less regrettable. We liked being one of the tallest and widest magazines in America -- and actually, we remain so (just less so). But the Great Recession, coming at a time when newspapers and magazines were already struggling to adjust to the Internet age, has put tremendous pressure on print publications to and savings that do not threaten the essential things they offer their readers. Global demand for paper is high; thus the cost of paper is high; thus using less paper in each issue we produce will save millions of dollars, money we can use to continue to pay for the long-form journalism and ambitious photography we call our pages with each week. 
 And speaking of those pages, the cut in trim size does not mean there is 9 percent less room on every page for words and pictures. This week we are introducing a new typeface, Lyon Text, that was designed by Kai Bernau and Christian Schwartz and will be used exclusively by the magazine. It is more condensed than our previous typeface -- with the result that the words-per-page tally has hardly been affected. Perhaps if we hadn't mentioned it, you would hardly know the difference. What you are sure to have noticed is our new design. When we were told last winter that our dimensions were being downsized, we took a cue from Rahm Emanuel -- we muttered lots of words we aren't allowed to print, then saw how our ''crisis'' might present an opportunity: a redesign. The magazine's look had not changed much during this decade, and for at least one good reason: We have annually won a raft of design awards, including the 2007 magazine-of-the-year-award from the Society of Publication Designers. But every object can use a bit of refurbishing now and then, and that is what our art director, Arem Duplessis, and his staff have done -- they've given the magazine a cleaner, more modern feel without changing what we are and do. We are introducing new display-type faces -- Knockout (by the studio Hoeffer & Frere-Jones) and Nyte (by the Portuguese designer Dino dos Santos) -- along with a brighter and more contemporary color palette. You will notice new design elements in our front-of-the-book columns, a new table of contents and the introduction of a series of icons to guide you to our Web content. On the puzzles page you can now play KenKen. And you will find our food pages at the front of the magazine, where they belong, as the Way We Eat is surely an aspect of the Way We Live Now.
 We're delighted with the way we look now. And you? Don't hesitate to e-mail us your review at magazine@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



380 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Enjoying Comforts Of the Yucatan's Era Of 'Green Gold'

BYLINE: By ALICE DuBOIS

 BODY:
STANDING next to the rusted gears of a henequen-processing machine, I gazed out at a lonely cluster of the spiky, cactus-like plants in an otherwise empty field. One hundred years ago, countless acres of land in this area around the Yucatan capital of Merida in Mexico were devoted to the cultivation of henequen, whose fibers were made into rope and twine. The crop was so valuable that it was nicknamed oro verde -- green gold -- and the ships that carried it away returned laden with European furnishings and luxury goods for the grand houses of the haciendas that grew it.
 If the recent economic turmoil has taught us anything, it's that even the most seemingly permanent institutions can go belly up. In the case of henequen cultivation, the combined effects of the land reforms of the Mexican Revolution and the invention of synthetic fibers spelled the end of the henequen boom after World War I and left many haciendas stripped of their huge land holdings, their houses closed up or abandoned. 
 More recently, many of these haciendas have found second lives as hotels. Several have been transformed into high-end accommodations with eye-popping prices. (Five of the fanciest are part of Starwood's Luxury Collection.) But a handful have become interesting and affordable small hotels, each with its own distinct character. 
 One of these, Hacienda Yaxcopoil, is only 20 miles south of Merida, but the march of time seems to have come to a halt right outside the property's ornate Moorish double-arched gate. The buildings have been preserved but not restored, and the place exudes a faded grandeur that is gorgeous and occasionally a little spooky. Each crumbling facade, each overgrown courtyard, each shadowy room is a poignant vignette, begging to be photographed.
 By day, the hacienda is a museum displaying the 19th-century furnishings of the owner's family, who bought the property in 1864. Visitors might walk through the museum and never realize that Hacienda Yaxcopoil (pronounced YASH-coh-poh-EEL) is also a hotel, although one with just a single guest room. Simple yet comfortable, it is tucked discreetly behind padlocked green doors in a separate house in a corner of the property. 
 At night, when the museum closes, this room becomes a personal refuge miles from any other tourist. And because there is no restaurant on site, and none nearby, the owner, Miguel Faller, offers an unusual version of room service: a woman from the town prepares the meals in her home and carries them over to the casa de visitas.
 If Hacienda Yaxcopoil offers the experience of staying in a museum, staying at the nine-room Hacienda San Antonio Chalante, about 50 miles east of Merida, feels like visiting the slightly scruffy home of an old friend. The American owner, Diane Dutton de Tuyub, has turned the 880-acre property into a place that reflects her life, her interests and her easygoing hospitality. 
 ''The way Diane has it set up, you look in some of the rooms and you'll see her family photographs,'' said Tom Carey, from Cohocton, N.Y., near Rochester,who has stayed several times at Hacienda Chalante with his wife, Michaela Cosgrove. ''It's like she's invited you into her life. But she gives you your space. It's not like some bed-and-breakfasts, where you get smothered.''
 Ms. Dutton de Tuyub owns several horses, and guests can ride with Rene, the caballero, on the property's many miles of trails. Bird-watching is another popular activity, and over the years, guests have added to a long list of species spotted on the property. For sightseers, the hacienda makes a good base for trips to the colonial city of Izamal, 15 minutes away, and the Maya ruin of Chichen Itza, 45 minutes to the southeast. 
 Travelers looking for a base closer to Merida have two good options just outside the city's ring road. Hacienda San Pedro Nohpat, just off the Merida-to-Cancun highway, doesn't offer the same sense of remoteness that you feel at both Yaxcopoil and Chalante. But inside the gates of the hacienda are lovely grounds with green lawns, beds of flowering ginger plants and S-shaped seats called confidenciales positioned in shady spots in the gardens.
 The hotel has 10 rooms, 2 swimming pools, 13 parrots, 4 burros and other animals who drop in and stay awhile. Reluctance to depart is a common feeling among visitors, in no small part because of the affable Canadian owners, Iona Chamberlin and J. R. Beug, whose hospitality makes guests feel like part of the brood. They arrange excursions, give travel advice, tell stories and charm guests by bringing Ruby, Buzz and Big Baby, their Amazon parrots, out to the veranda during breakfast. 
 Hacienda Santa Cruz is a gorgeous property on the road leading from Merida to the small town of Dzununcan. Robert and Caroline Franck, a French couple, bought the hacienda in 2007, and after 14 months of renovation, opened it as a stylish nine-room hotel that pops with vibrant colors. With an old wagon wheel leaned artfully up against the trunk of an expansive tree and a pint-sized chapel painted deep red with bright white trim, the hacienda looks so picturesque it almost feels like a movie set.
 My fiance, Dan, and I didn't spend the night at Hacienda Santa Cruz because the hotel, with its nine rooms and suites starting at $169 a night in high season, didn't fall squarely in the affordable category, especially for Mexico. (The fact that one building has been transformed into a spa featuring a line of Parisian beauty products was an indicator of upscale sensibilities.) But we did stop in for lunch and a look around, and saw that the suites all sleep four, making them good value for families or small groups, especially in low season, when they're $219 a night. 
 From the polish of Santa Cruz to Yaxcopoil's majestic decay, hacienda hotels suit a wide range of tastes. What they all offer is the chance to explore parts of the Yucatan that most tourists, flying in to Cancun for beach vacations or touring Chichen Itza, never get around to seeing. 
 PAMPERING INSTEAD OF PLANTING
 Flights from New York to Merida involve at least one connection, commonly in Houston or Mexico City. A recent search for one-stop flights from mid-June to mid-July found fares starting at $546 on Continental.
 Once in Merida, the easiest way to get to the haciendas is by car, though it is possible to use buses and taxis. The Merida airport has local and international car rental companies. Prices can be as low as $9 a day, but insurance, which some companies require, will increase the cost substantially.
 Hacienda Yaxcopoil (52-1-999-900-1193; www.yaxcopoil.com) rents a room for $60 a night, double occupancy. Museum admission, normally 50 pesos (about $3.70 at 13.5 pesos to the dollar), is included. There are no restaurants nearby, so it's wise to add dinner and breakfast ($20 a person) when you reserve. 
 Hacienda San Antonio Chalante (52-1-999-132-7411; www.haciendachalante.com) has nine rooms for $50 to $80, including breakfast. Dinner can be prepared for guests who request it for an additional $20 a person.
 Hacienda San Pedro Nohpat (52-999-988-0542; www.haciendaholidays.com) charges $95 to $195 for its 10 rooms, breakfast included.
 Hacienda Santa Cruz (52-999-254-0541; www.haciendasantacruz.com) has rooms from $149 to $249, breakfast included.
 On May 15, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(www.cdc.gov/travel) downgraded its warning against travel to Mexico because of the swine flu to a travel precaution notice. It recommends consulting a physician to see if you are at risk and making sure vaccinations are up to date.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hacienda Yaxcopoil is a restored estate museum with a guesthouse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL SCHOFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Yucatan Peninsula 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); RESTAURANTS (66%); WORLD WAR I (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



381 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Repurpose-Driven Life

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
Talk of American infrastructure tends to focus on inadequacies: roads that need to be repaired or widened, bridges fortified, electrical grids updated. All the more striking, then, that America's retail infrastructure -- its malls, supercenters, big boxes and other styles of store-clumping -- has come to be characterized by rampant abundance. This has been a decades-long trend. But it has taken the economic downturn, with chain stores liquidating, mall tenancy slipping and car dealerships scheduled for closure, to focus popular attention on the problem with our retail infrastructure: there is too much of it. 
 A recent book, ''Retrofitting Suburbia,'' by Ellen Dunham-Jones and June Williamson, notes that in 1986, the United States had about 15 square feet of retail space per person in shopping centers. That was already a world-leading figure, but by 2003 it had increased by a third, to 20 square feet. The next countries on the list are Canada (13 square feet per person) and Australia (6.5 square feet); the highest figure in Europe is in Sweden, with 3 square feet per person. ''Retrofitting Suburbia,'' as its title suggests, is concerned with projects that address problems stemming from ''leapfrog''-style development -- the constant expansion of new housing, and new stores, farther away from city centers. As Dunham-Jones, an associate professor of architecture at Georgia Tech, told me when we spoke recently, one of those problems is that we've gotten ''overretailed.'' 
 This seems more obvious in a down economy, with chains like Circuit City and Linens 'n Things closing up shop all over the country. But in truth the spread of newer and bigger stores and malls caused an awful lot of retail vacancy even during the boom years. The artist Julia Christensen began documenting what happens to dead big-box stores in 2003, chronicling a variety of examples at bigboxreuse.com. The case studies in her book, ''Big Box Reuse,'' published last year, all involve former Wal-Mart and Kmart locations, often vacated not because of failure but because those chains were expanding into larger locations nearby. In other words, even retail success can create abandoned stores. ''Thousands of empty big boxes can be found right now all across the country, a vast network of abandoned construction, from sea to shining sea,'' Christensen observes in the opening chapter of the book, written well before the recession began adding to, and accelerating, the dark-store count. 
 Complicating things further, Christensen told me, empty buildings owned by retailers tend to be bound up in long-term leases that rule out inhabitation by potential rivals. Thus many of the examples of reuse she has found involve noncommercial entities -- a Head Start location in a former Kmart in Hastings, Neb., a senior center in an old Wal-Mart building in Wisconsin Rapids, Wis., a church in a reused Wal-Mart in Pinellas Park, Fla., and so on. 
 The success of big discounters, as well as ''category killers'' like Home Depot and Staples, also contributed to the travails of traditional indoor shopping malls. While troubled malls are getting new attention -- the country's second-biggest mall operator recently filed for bankruptcy protection -- observers of American retail have been tracking mall deaths throughout this decade. Demographic changes have been a factor. But so has the emergence of, yes, more retail variation, in the form of outdoor ''lifestyle centers,'' and in some cases, a newer, bigger mall in the area. As with the big boxes, some creative solutions have emerged. ''Retrofitting Suburbia'' details, for example, the conversion of a former shopping mall in Lakewood, Colo., into a New Urbanist-influenced town center. 
 The more you learn about the vast expanses of built retail infrastructure -- active and inert -- the more you wonder whether, perhaps, enough is enough. Both Christensen and Dunham-Jones seem to approve, to put it mildly, of the idea of a retail moratorium until the current infrastructure can be put to use. Of course neither thinks such a thing is remotely realistic; the very thought runs counter to the keen interest in new construction as an indicator of economic health. But Dunham-Jones says she would like to see suburban governments put their retail-focused land to better use; Christensen hopes communities force retailers to take long-term responsibility for the buildings they create and the space they occupy. 
 Since both women have deep knowledge of the processes that have led to productive reuse of vacant retail, I asked each if there is a pattern to who leads the way on such projects. Business? Government? Citizens? The answer was that there is no consistent answer -- some entity spots and gets worked up about space that could be used, but isn't, and seizes the initiative. This is bad news in the sense that nobody is in charge of doing something about the abandoned infrastructure built for a nation of shoppers. But it's good news in the sense that almost anybody can be. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP: MYLES QUIN/GALLERY STOCK. OTHER PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIA CHRISTENSEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); SUBURBS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (74%); CASE STUDIES (68%); CITIES (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (56%)

COMPANY: LINENS 'N THINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



382 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise, Putting Dow Ahead for Year

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The broad stock market has been in positive territory for 2009 for a while now. Last week, the 30-stock Dow Jones industrial average moved into the black as well. 
 Since the market hit bottom in March, the Dow has climbed nearly 30 percent, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen 40 percent. 
 On Friday, the University of Michigan reported that consumer confidence rose in June for the fourth consecutive month, providing support for the view that the economy will soon rebound.
 Commodity prices have been rising, and the futures price of a barrel of oil in New York moved above $70 and stayed there, settling Friday at $72.04, up from $68.44 the previous week.
 For the week, the Dow gained 36.13 points, or 0.4 percent, closing at 8,799.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 6.12 points, or 0.7 percent, closing at 946.21. The Nasdaq composite index rose 9.38 points, or 0.5 percent, closing at 1,858.80. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.79 percent from 3.83 percent the previous week.
 JEFF SOMMER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



383 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: The Changeover to Digital TV Gets Off to a Smooth Start, Mostly

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER; Mindy Sink contributed reporting from Denver, John Dougherty from Reno, Nev., and Thayer Evans from Houston.

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
As the clock ticked down on the decade-long $2 billion effort to convert the nation's television signals to digital, Kevin Freeman bided his time on a park bench here. 
 Mr. Freeman, 53, who lives in a shelter, was waiting to see whether he would win a donated converter box at a raffle put on by a community group. 
 ''I'm just waiting here, hoping to get lucky,'' he said, lest he miss ''CSI'' or the morning news. 
 Mr. Freeman was one of the millions of people directly affected by the government-mandated transition, as local television stations stopped broadcasting in analog by the Friday midnight deadline, ushering in a new era of crystal-clear digital TV. 
 For most viewers, the transition amounted to a minor hiccup at most. But the industry estimated that 12 million homes had not installed the necessary converter boxes, putting them at risk of losing TV altogether.
 Across the country, television stations set up help lines and community organizations held events to aid confused viewers. Most stations didn't receive the flood of calls they had expected, a sign that the transition was smoother than many had predicted. 
 Mike Burgess, the general manager of KOB in Albuquerque, said he had braced himself for calls when the station switched at 5 a.m. on Friday. According to Nielsen, Albuquerque had the highest rate of unprepared viewers of any market in the country. Acknowledging his surprise, he said the station had logged only three calls in the first digital hours. 
 ''One of 'em was, when's your weather guy coming back from vacation?'' he said. 
 As of Saturday evening, the station had received about 150 calls.
 Most American households now pay for television through a cable or satellite company. They were mostly unaffected by the switch, which will allow state-of-the-art wireless services and emergency communications to exist on the newly available analog spectrum space. 
 But millions still watch free TV with an antenna, and they have borne the burden of the digital transition. While TV is primarily an entertainment medium, government officials are emphasizing its use in emergencies. Frank Michel, the communications director for the Houston mayor's office, said TV access was vital for the coming hurricane season. 
 ''It is a public safety issue for us here in the Gulf Coast area,'' he said.
 In Minneapolis, Mr. Freeman had applied twice to the government coupon program to subsidize the cost of the box, but his requests were rejected. Amalia Deloney, an organizer at the Minneapolis raffle, said some of the most vulnerable pockets of viewers were denied coupons because they live in multiple-family dwellings. The government allotted two coupons for each home address.
 Another hopeful winner in line here, Selena Underwood, 43, sounded a cynical note about the change. ''They're saying we're in recession, but they're still making people buy boxes,'' she said, shrugging her shoulders. Ms. Underwood, who can't afford cable, complained that the conversion was ''just another way to get money out of people.''
 Experts warned that the transition would leave disproportionate numbers of non-English speakers and poor people without television. ''I don't think people get urgent about it until they realize they aren't going to get TV anymore,'' said Stephanie Staudacher, whose company in Fort Collins, Colo., provided help to viewers through a contract with the Federal Communications Commission. Ms. Staudacher said most of her callers were elderly and retired, often on a fixed income. 
 The F.C.C. said 4,000 operators were available at 1-888-CALL-FCC to help people who awoke on Saturday and found their TV sets crippled. The full effects will probably not be felt for days, perhaps until Nielsen ratings show whether some percentage of viewers have stopped tuning in.
 Michael J. Copps, the acting chairman of the F.C.C., said the ''overwhelming majority of households'' were ready for the transition. Still, he acknowledged that it represented a ''great challenge'' for some viewers.
 To offer help, F.C.C. representatives have essentially walked door to door at places like housing projects and senior centers, said Roger Goldblatt, an F.C.C. field director.
 The F.C.C. said it answered 317,000 calls on Friday. The most common questions were about the coupon program (which continues through July 31) and box installations.
 Many of the calls concerned the rescanning of TV sets. The F.C.C. says that over-the-air viewers must rescan their sets to pick up the new digital signals that are being powered on.
 ''Ultimately, this gets solved one viewer at a time,'' said Nick Matesi, general manager for the ABC affiliate KOLO in Reno, Nev., which made the transition in January.
 The F.C.C. will concentrate its post-transition work on Spanish-language communities. 
 Great fanfare accompanied some stations as they switched. In Minneapolis, a PBS station showed a farewell video hosted by a retired schoolteacher who was the first person to appear on the station's analog air 59 years earlier. In Colorado Springs, a CBS station invited a local vocal ensemble to perform the national anthem. 
 As with the transition from typewriter to a computer, the digital TV switch revealed a number of unexpected side effects. Because digital signals are more apt to be affected by interference, many viewers in rural areas said they could see fewer stations than before. 
 ''Digital signals are sometimes more finicky than analog signals,'' said Rick Kaplan, an F.C.C. spokesman. ''It may take some time to find the exact right position for your antenna.''
 Tim Downey, a resident of Severna Park, Md., between Washington and Baltimore, said his rabbit ears reliably picked up seven to nine stations before the switch, but only one -- PBS and its three subchannels -- afterward. 
 ''I was better off before the elimination of analog television,'' he said. He added ruefully that the digital pictures were crystal-clear, but only ''when I can get them.''
 The F.C.C. said many perceived reception problems could be solved with a phone call to its help line.
 Eden Eskin, 71, a Manhattan resident who struggled to receive the ABC, CBS and PBS stations in New York with her new high-definition set, bitterly called the switch a ''stimulus package for cable companies.'' 
 In central Houston, Edward and Juanita Perry sat on the porch of their white row house with peeling paint on Friday afternoon unworried about not being prepared for digital TV. The retired couple had a voucher for a free converter box that they received last week, but they had yet to redeem it.
 ''It don't bother me,'' said Mr. Perry, 64, a retired truck driver. ''I can do without it. Two or three nights won't kill me.''
 Ms. Perry said she was actually looking forward to being without television for a while.
 ''Silence is golden,'' she said. ''I'll catch up on silence.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jesse Jankowski, a technician from Geek Squad, installed a digital converter box on Friday at a home in Salem, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A16)
 In Brooklyn, Steven Langan, right, helped Bill and Kitty Bigin with the transition. Analog broadcasts were halted by Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); MAYORS (72%); WEATHER (71%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



384 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, June 14th 2009

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending May 30, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List			 	 	 	1	1	10	LIBERTY AND TYRANNY, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions, $25.) A conservative manifesto from a talk-show host and president of Landmark Legal Foundation.		 	 	 	2	2	28	OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Why some people succeed &#8212; it has to do with luck and opportunity &#8212; from the author of &#8220;Blink.&#8221;		 	 	 	3*	9	3	HORSE SOLDIERS, by Doug Stanton. (Scribner, $28.) A small group of Special Forces soldiers fought the Taliban on horseback shortly after 9/11.		 	 	 	4	3	4	RESILIENCE, by Elizabeth Edwards. (Broadway, $22.95.) Dealing with life&#8217;s challenges, including cancer and her husband&#8217;s infidelity.		 	 	 	5*	4	6	THE GIRLS FROM AMES, by Jeffrey Zaslow. (Gotham, $26.) An enduring friendship among a group of Midwestern women.		 	 	 	6	6	2	MY REMARKABLE JOURNEY, by Larry King with Cal Fussman. (Weinstein, $27.95.) From Depression-era Brooklyn to &#8220;Larry King Live.&#8221;		 	 	 	7	5	9	ALWAYS LOOKING UP, by Michael J. Fox. (Hyperion, $25.99.) Fox&#8217;s last 10 years; his struggles with Parkinson&#8217;s disease and his work as an activist through his foundation.		 	 	 	8	7	5	LOSING MUM AND PUP, by Christopher Buckley. (Twelve, $24.99.) A memoir of the lives and deaths of the author&#8217;s parents, Patricia and William F. Buckley.		 	 	 	9	16	2	HOW THE MIGHTY FALL, by Jim Collins. (Jim Collins/HarperCollins, $23.99.) Companies fail in stages, and their decline can be detected and reversed. (&#8224;)		 	 	 	10	8	5	THE END OF OVEREATING, by David A. Kessler. (Rodale, $25.95.) How eating sugar, fat and salt affects our minds and bodies and encourages overindulgence.		 	 	 	11	11	33	A BOLD FRESH PIECE OF HUMANITY, by Bill O&#8217;Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The Fox News commentator on his upbringing and career.		 	 	 	12	14	43	ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#8217;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. (Simon Spotlight Entertainment, $24.95.) Humorous personal essays from the stand-up comedian.		 	 	 	13	12	8	COLUMBINE, by Dave Cullen. (Twelve, $26.99.) A full account of the Columbine massacre 10 years later.		 	 	 	14*	10	2	UNFINISHED BUSINESS, by James Van Praagh. (HarperOne, $24.99.) Learning about living from the spirit world.		 	 	 	15		1	THE HOUSING BOOM AND BUST, by Thomas Sowell. (Basic, $24.95.) An explanation of the economics and politics of the housing boom and its collapse.		 	 	 	16*		2	BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Knopf, $24.95.) Secrets of distance running from a Mexican Indian tribe.		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); WRITERS (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (88%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TALIBAN (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009



385 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: They Won't Win a Popularity Contest June 7-13

 BODY:
THE NEWS Almost 4 out of 10 Republicans and Republican-leaning independents have an unfavorable opinion of the party, a new USA Today/Gallup poll found.
 BEHIND THE NEWS For Republicans struggling over the future of their party, the results of this poll make for sober reading. Nearly half of Republicans polled could not come up with a single name when asked who speaks for their party -- ''hard evidence,'' said Frank M. Newport, editor in chief of the Gallup Poll, of ''a significant leadership vacuum.'' Overall, 53 percent of those polled said they had a favorable image of the Democratic Party, compared with 34 percent for the Republican Party. 
 THE NEWS Prime Minister Gordon Brown survived a plot within his own Labor Party to force his ouster after Labor's disastrous showing in a recent election, its worst showing in decades.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The showdown followed a series of fiascos: the public uproar over lawmakers' excessive expense claims; Mr. Brown's perceived role in failing to arrange for the queen to attend the 65th anniversary of D-Day; and the resignation of nearly a third of his cabinet in less than a week. All this, plus England's economic tailspin. Now the question is whether Mr. Brown and his party can survive the next parliamentary election -- which Mr. Brown must call within 12 months.
 THE NEWSPresident Obama moved to restrict executive pay at seven of the nation's largest companies, which have received billions in federal aid to survive the economic crisis.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Public anger over pay packages for executives has been simmering for months. The president himself branded Wall Street bankers ''shameful'' for giving themselves $20 billion in bonuses as the economy deteriorated and the government was bailing out banks. The Obama plan gives a federal overseer discretion to set pay for top executives at those seven firms, a move that may satisfy public demand for controlling excessive pay without spooking Wall Street. 
 THE NEWS Fourteen months after being elevated to the governor's job, David A. Paterson finds himself deeply unpopular, a new poll says.
 BEHIND THE NEWS New Yorkers actually have a more favorable view of his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, who resigned after being identified as Client 9 in a prostitution scandal. Only 21 percent had a favorable impression of Mr. Paterson (compared to 26 percent for Mr. Spitzer). Mr. Paterson may yet repair his image in time for next year's election, but the task will be formidable. Seven out of 10 respondents said he did not deserve to be elected, according to the poll by The New York Times, Cornell University and NY1 News.
 THE NEWS Villagers were rising up against the Taliban in a remote corner of northern Pakistan.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The rebellion underscored a shift in the public mood against the Taliban and a growing confidence to confront them. More than a thousand villagers from the district of Dir took up arms against the insurgents after a Taliban suicide bomber killed at least 30 people during prayer time at a local mosque. The government has helped the villagers in what may prove to be an important challenge to the Taliban as the rebels also face pressure in the Swat Valley. ''This bomb proved the last straw,'' said one villager. ''We are not quitting until we destroy them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
AKIRA SUEMORI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JIM YOUNG/REUTERS
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FAISAL MAHMOOD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (69%); SCANDALS (63%); TALIBAN (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%); SEX SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (77%); DAVID PATERSON (74%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



386 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Health Plan May Mean Payment Cuts to Hospitals

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House said Saturday that President Obama intended to pay for his health care overhaul partly by cutting more than $200 billion in expected reimbursements to hospitals over the next decade -- a proposal that is likely to provoke a backlash from struggling medical institutions around the country.
 Mr. Obama has insisted that his plan will not add to the federal deficit. He had already set aside in his budget what he calls a $635 billion ''down payment'' toward the overall 10-year cost of the overhaul, expected to top $1 trillion. But Republicans and some Democratic legislators have been pressing him to provide details on how he would cover the rest. On Saturday, he used his Internet and radio address to do so. 
 Mr. Obama said he had identified ''an additional $313 billion in savings that will rein in unnecessary spending and increase efficiency and the quality of care,'' bringing the total to nearly $950 billion. He did not offer a specific breakdown, but advisers said that in addition to the more than $200 billion in lowered hospital reimbursements, the president expected $75 billion in savings over 10 years by getting better prices for prescription drugs, and $22 billion in other savings. 
 ''These savings will come from common-sense changes,'' Mr. Obama said in his address. ''For example, if more Americans are insured, we can cut payments that help hospitals treat patients without health insurance.''
 He added: ''If the drug makers pay their fair share, we can cut government spending on prescription drugs. And if doctors have incentives to provide the best care instead of more care, we can help Americans avoid the unnecessary hospital stays, treatments and tests that drive up costs.''
 Saturday's announcement came amid an intense push by the White House to sell Mr. Obama's health care plan, his highest legislative priority. Broadly speaking, Mr. Obama wants to extend coverage to the nation's 45 million uninsured, preserve consumer choice and cut rising health care costs. He has argued that fixing the nation's health care system is crucial to the economic health of the United States.
 But as Congress contemplates the details of the legislation, the question of how to pay for the plan is among the thorniest it will face. Already, one of Mr. Obama's early proposals -- limiting tax deductions for high-income people -- has run into major roadblocks on Capitol Hill. By providing details in his weekly address on Saturday, Mr. Obama may be hoping to give lawmakers the political leeway to adopt other cost-saving measures. 
 The administration expects to achieve the lowered hospital payments in two major ways, by slowing the growth of reimbursements. First, said Mr. Obama's budget director, Peter M. Orszag, payments to hospitals will be reduced to try to encourage them to work more productively and efficiently. 
 Mr. Orszag said hospitals could figure out ways of treating patients ''more effectively, through health information technology, a nurse coordinator instead of an unnecessary specialist,'' for example. These ''productivity adjustments'' would account for $110 billion in savings.
 Second, the administration expects to lower payments to hospitals that treat large numbers of low-income patients. Medicare and Medicaid make special extra payments to these hospitals, but Mr. Orszag said those payments would become less necessary over time, as more of the nation's 45 million uninsured acquire coverage through the new program. This would account for $106 billion in savings.
 But hospital administrators, already nervous about lowered reimbursements, are likely to oppose such cuts. Less than 24 hours before Mr. Obama's radio address, the president of the American Hospital Association, Richard J. Umbdenstock, issued a call to action to his members across the country, warning that Congress might cut provider payments.
 Mr. Umbdenstock asked hospitals to ''push back'' against the proposed cuts. ''Payment cuts are not reform,'' he said, denouncing ''blunt cuts that cripple hospitals' ability to do better for their patients.''
 Dr. Patricia A. Gabow, chief executive of the Denver Health and Hospital Authority, which operates a 477-bed public hospital, said it would be ''pretty risky'' for Congress to cut payments to safety-net hospitals before knowing whether new legislation actually reduced the uncompensated care they must provide.
 ''What about homeless people, the chronically mentally ill, substance abusers and people with low literacy?'' Dr. Gabow asked. ''You think they will be using the federal health insurance exchange to enroll in insurance plans? I don't think so.''
 Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said the proposed cuts could be ''devastating to hospitals that serve inner-city communities.''
 Mr. Raske pointed out that none of the major proposals in Congress would provide health insurance to illegal immigrants, and many of them would still be unable to pay their hospital bills. In addition, he said, the federal payments will still be needed because ''Medicaid woefully underpays for outpatient clinics'' and other services in some states, including New York.
 Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, intends to introduce his plan this week. Aides said it would include a proposal to tax some employer-provided health benefits, a notion that Mr. Obama sharply criticized during his campaign for the White House. Workers might, for example, have to pay income tax on the value of family coverage exceeding $15,000 a year.
 Labor unions, many employers and many House Democrats oppose such a tax, saying it would destabilize the employer-based system of health insurance. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama called for ''common-sense'' savings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE WHITE HOUSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); DRUG PRICES (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (61%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



387 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; POLICY AND PROFIT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Follow The Money

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Congress appears ready to confront one of the nation's most contentious issues -- health care reform -- and arguments will fill the air in the coming months.
 Much of the discussion so far has focused on President Obama's proposal for a government-sponsored health plan that he says will reduce costs. Insurers and doctors argue it will limit patient choice. Drug companies warn that the quality of care could be compromised.
 But Mr. Obama's proposal is only one of many that await Congress as it wrestles with how to rein in exploding health care costs while taking care of the country's nearly 50 million uninsured. The size and complexity of the issue are daunting. To help understand what's going on, you need to follow the money.
 Roughly $2.5 trillion is at stake, the amount the nation spends each year on health care, nearly a fifth of the American economy. How that money is divided up -- or prevented from rising at its current pace -- is at the center of the debate. Many doctors, insurance companies and drug companies say they fear that their revenues could shrink significantly and patient care could be threatened. 
 Their arguments may prove to have merit. But ''people are voting with their own economic interests,'' said Les Funtleyder, a Wall Street analyst who is following the debate closely for Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. 
 When you hear nothing from one of the interest groups on an issue that is part of the larger debate, you can assume the silence means it has no financial stake in the outcome, he said. ''You wouldn't probably weigh in if you don't have any skin in the game because if you weigh in, it makes you more of a target,'' Mr. Funtleyder said.
 What all of the interest groups reliably support is any new program that would expand coverage to the uninsured. Such a program would translate into tens of millions of new, paying customers for hospitals, doctors, insurers and drug makers. 
 But what worries those groups is the accompanying talk in Washington about how to address the skyrocketing cost of health care, since any decline in spending would correspond to a reduction in revenues. The discussion has become particularly heated over exactly how the government will find the savings necessary to help generate the $1 trillion or so that the government will need over the next decade to pay for universal coverage. The nation's doctors, for example, say they wholeheartedly support health care reform. But the American Medical Association has a long history of being opposed to legislation that threatens the status quo. It opposed the creation of Medicare more than 30 years ago. 
 What concerns doctors about a government-run insurance program that looks like Medicare is the possibility that it will pay like Medicare, said Robert Laszewski, a health policy consultant in Alexandria, Va. ''Medicare pays doctors 80 percent of what an insurance company pays,'' he said. ''If you get a public plan, the doctors are going to get a 20 percent pay cut.''
 But doctors are also likely to disagree among themselves over how different types of physicians should be compensated. Congress is thinking about raising the pay of primary-care doctors -- general practitioners, family physicians and the like -- as a way to encourage them to more actively oversee the care of patients and reduce expensive visits to specialists and hospitals. 
 The specialists -- the cardiologists, neurologists, surgeons and others -- may have a different take on the discussion, Mr. Laszewski noted, especially if Congress cannot raise salaries of primary-care doctors without taking money from the highly paid specialists. ''The question is, how are you going to help the primary-care doctors without cutting the cardiologist and the other specialists?'' he asked.
 But even the family physicians, who stand to benefit the most, say they are opposed to a government-run plan if it reimburses them at the Medicare rate.
 Another group with a lot to win or lose is the nation's private health insurers. With the number of people who are privately insured through their employer or their own policy not increasing, insurers are eager to find a new source of business. Health reform promises them at least some new customers who cannot afford insurance now but who might receive government help to pay for coverage.
 But the trade association, America's Health Insurance Plans, has clearly staked out its opposition to any kind of government-run health plan, which it says would have an unfair advantage. The trade group fears its members would be driven out of business as the government uses its purchasing power to demand much lower prices from doctors and hospitals. 
 Karen Ignagni, the chief executive of the association, has criticized the government's track record in running Medicare as a good reason not to expand government health insurance beyond the elderly and disabled. She says the program has done a poor job in taking care of people when they are very sick. ''Medicare has not effectively coordinated care, addressed chronic illness, or encouraged high performance,'' she recently told Congress. 
 As one way of finding savings to pay for health reform, Congress is also discussing lowering payments to private insurers who are now being compensated to cover some Medicare patients. The A.M.A., perhaps mindful that such savings would not come from doctors if it comes from insurers, says it supports such cuts. 
 The hospitals have also voiced concerns about a government-run plan. They, too, are paid much less by Medicare than they are by private insurers. 
 The nation's drug makers are also lining up against a public plan, predicting that it would ultimately lead to a government takeover of the entire system. ''I don't think that American patients would -- or should -- accommodate themselves to the long waits for care, limited options and other forms of rationing that inevitably accompany government health care monopolies,'' John C. Lechleiter, the chief executive of the drug maker Eli Lilly & Co., recently told a meeting of business leaders. ''American doctors and patients need to retain the ability to make choices based on the real value of treatment options.''
 But drug companies are also wary of the government's pull in demanding lower prices for their products than the insurers they deal with today. ''The more government intervention you have, the less payment you have,'' said Mr. Funtleyder, the analyst. 
 These companies are also concerned that the government will play a greater role in determining the effectiveness of different drugs and medical devices and use that information to decide which should be covered and how much the government will pay for those products. Insurers, not surprisingly, support the government's taking a harder line against drug and medical device makers so they don't have to. 
 As Congress gets closer to finalizing any legislation, the opinions of the many stakeholders are likely to become more strident and self-interested, Mr. Laszewski predicted. As in watching the last lap of the Daytona 500, he said, there will be attempts by some of these groups to break out of the pack. ''When you get the last lap, there are no friends -- it's me, me, me,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TOP PRIORITY: One thing is certain. Everyone will argue that the patient is their No. 1 concern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUBA LUKOVA) (pg.WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



388 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 2991 words

HEADLINE: Remaking Paris

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF. 
Nicolai Ouroussoff is the architecture critic for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Until he took office, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France never seemed destined to be a patron of architecture. In the weeks leading up to his election, more than a few architects I spoke with in Paris disparaged him as ''the American,'' a reference to his supposed lowbrow cultural tastes. But the French presidency has a way of infecting its occupant with visions of architectural grandeur. Georges Pompidou is better remembered today for the elaborate populist structure that bears his name than for his Gaullist policies. Francois Mitterrand created nearly a dozen new monuments in Paris, including I. M. Pei's glass pyramid at the Louvre, a gigantic new national library and the Bastille Opera House. And now Sarkozy seems determined to outdo even Mitterrand.
 One of the first things Sarkozy did after he moved into the Elysee Palace was to convene a meeting of prominent architects and ask them to come up with a new blueprint for Paris. ''Of course,'' he said, ''projects should be realistic, but for me true realism is the kind that consists in being very ambitious.'' His job was to clean up the city's working-class suburbs, and at the same time build a greener Paris, the first city to conform to the environmental goals laid out in the Kyoto treaty. 
 The results, a year later, may be the beginning of one of the boldest urban planning operations in French history. A formidable list of architects -- including Richard Rogers, Jean Nouvel, Djamel Klouche and Roland Castro -- put forward proposals that address a range of urban problems: from housing the poor to fixing outdated transportation systems to renewing the immigrant suburbs. Some have suggested practical solutions -- new train stations and parks -- while others have been more provocative, like Castro, who proposed moving the presidential palace to the outskirts.
 The architects will continue to refine their ideas over the next year, so it is unclear what form the final plan will take. And Sarkozy has yet to say how he would pay for such an ambitious undertaking. Whatever their chance of being realized, however, these proposals force us to rethink what it means for Paris to be Paris, and how to fix our faltering cities. At a time when ''infrastructure'' has become a catchword of politicians around the world, these plans offer a glimpse of what a sustainable, more egalitarian city might look like and the role government might play in shaping one. 
 ''I think we've all begun to realize the importance of cities again,'' Richard Rogers told me. ''You see it in Bogota, in New York -- this new interest in the compact, sustainable city. But Sarkozy deserves some credit for this. I've never heard a politician speak so passionately about the importance of a city. He understands that the physical environment can be used to change behavior. And I think the architects responded.''
 Late one afternoon in February, the architect Christian de Portzamparc took me to the roof of La Tour Pleyel, a 40-story office tower in a derelict neighborhood just north of the Peripherique, the circular highway that separates Paris from the outlying districts. It was a clear day. Portzamparc pointed out the grim housing projects in La Courneuve, which erupted in rioting four years ago and have since been partly demolished. Sarkozy, then interior minister, spoke of these projects as a place ''where gangrene has set in.'' 
 What struck me most about the view from La Tour Pleyel was the sense of isolation. The road to the airport looked like a scar, dividing the anonymous housing blocks on one side from the green parkland on the other. To the south, industrial wastelands bordered on a dense knot of rust-colored tracks that fed into the Gare du Nord. Another set of tracks, to the Gare de l'Est, cut through an industrial landscape of decrepit sheds and vacant lots. Even the Seine, from here, looked like an open wound. Framed by these brutal incisions, the city seemed like a series of dying, isolated pockets.
 La Tour Pleyel lies in one such pocket. When it was built in the early 1970s, developers saw it as a potential rival to La Defense, which was then a booming business district northwest of the city, just past the Place de l'Etoile. Plans called for four towers around a commercial center, but with the economic downturn during that decade, the project stalled. Only one tower was ever built. Instead of sparking new development in the area, it remained surrounded by empty warehouses -- another failed, stillborn fantasy.
 ''Most of these new developments were artificially created,'' Portzamparc explained as we looked out over the city. ''They were built in areas with the most potato fields, where there was nothing. These developers were not interested in nurturing what was there.''
 When Portzamparc and I descended to the lobby, a line had formed in front of the Caisse d'Allocations Familiales, a government benefits office. The people, who were there to pick up unemployment checks, represented a cross-section of working-class French society. An Arab man, a North African woman holding a baby, a young couple, an old Frenchman -- all waited their turns in line. No one made a sound. The rest of the lobby was empty.
 Portzamparc sees such neglected areas as ripe for reinvestment, if they can be linked to a good transportation network. To facilitate circulation among the anonymous zones that encircle the city, he proposes building an elevated high-speed train line along the Peripherique's median. To give an identity to northeast Paris, one of the city's poorest areas, and to reassert the city's prominence as an international business center, nonlocal trains would no longer come into Paris via the Gare du Nord and the Gare de l'Est would be closed; instead they would enter the city through a station northeast of the historic center, closer to Charles de Gaulle airport -- the Gare Nord Europe.
 Paris's current problems as a city can be traced to the very thing that makes it most delightful -- its beauty. When Baron Haussmann, working under Napoleon III, carved grand boulevards through the medieval quarters, he gave the city its Cartesian order, filling them with light and air. Haussmann's vision for Paris ranks as one of the greatest -- and most influential -- urban achievements of the 19th century. Its traces can be found in cities as disparate as Buenos Aires, Bucharest and Chicago. Even Robert Moses may be viewed as an extension of Haussmann-as-urban-planner, not least because Haussmann's work was also a radical means of social engineering. The enormous width of Haussmann's boulevards had as much to do with moving troops through the city as with aesthetics, part of an effort to control the masses after the revolution of 1848, which brought Napoleon III to power. Effectively, the sidewalks that gave an emerging bourgeoisie a place to gather (a place from which to enter the theaters, opera houses and shops of a fashionable life) pushed the poor farther away from the center.
 ''In the time of Haussmann, the Paris bourgeoisie often spoke about 'les classes dangereuses' -- the dangerous classes,'' Jean-Louis Cohen, an architectural historian, told me recently. ''He sought to expel the popular classes from the center, to push them out, to the north and northeast of the city. But it marks the beginning of a long conflict. The site of the Pompidou Center was originally razed in 1939 as part of a slum clearance project, for example. There is a pattern of pushing the working classes out.''
 During the next wave of modernization in the '60s and '70s, there was talk of demolishing the great iron-and-glass food halls at Les Halles, the city's old, congested market area. The halls were finally torn down in 1971, an act that is still considered one of the great tragedies in the city's history -- the equivalent, for the Parisian, of the demolition of New York's Pennsylvania Station. Most of the bars and cafes that surrounded Les Halles were destroyed, too. By the early '70s, the government was planning hundreds of miles of new freeways, including one along the Seine and another that traced the footprint of the city's old defensive wall (now the Peripherique). Dozens of old wood-frame and plaster houses in the eastern working-class neighborhoods of Paris were bulldozed to make room for generic apartment blocks. 
 The threat to historic Paris -- to the heart of France's cultural identity -- eventually led to an equally violent counterreaction. In 1972 La Tour Maine-Montparnasse, a modern tower erected not far from the Luxembourg Gardens, caused a national uproar. Five years later all high-rises were banned from the center. The glittering office towers we associate with most urban downtowns were grouped in La Defense. Soon it seemed that anything that was ugly and modern was simply banished to the city's edges. The Peripherique became a dividing line, isolating the city of Haussmann from the growing modern sprawl in the banlieues that surrounded it.
 This shift in the development of the city coincided with an equally striking shift in population. In 1919, there were three million people living in municipal Paris, and its working-class neighborhoods were some of the densest in the world. Today there are only two million in the city; the majority -- eight million people -- live in the banlieues. More than 100 years after Haussmann's death, old Paris has become the world's most elegant gated community -- the sandblasted facades of its Haussmann-era buildings glistening with affluence. True, every now and then, a contemporary building is added. But this is mostly architectural fine-tuning. The city's essential fabric remains the same. Even its few ethnic neighborhoods, like La Goutte d'Or and La Chapelle, are mainly on the edges.
 Meanwhile, just inside the Peripherique and beyond, is another Paris: a city of often dehumanizing public housing developments, concrete-slab office towers and arrested utopian schemes that embody many of Modernism's failures. On some level, Sarkozy's team of architects faces the same challenge Haussmann did 150 years ago: to give order to a vast, squalid, disordered metropolis that grew in fits and starts. 
 The day after I met with Portzamparc, Jean Nouvel drove me to another vision from the 1970s, Les Olympiades, a housing project in the 13th Arrondissement. At 63, Nouvel has often been on the wrong side of the city's urban planning wars. In the late 1960s he fought to save Les Halles from demolition, but he later lost the competition to redo the site. (Forum des Halles, which won, is considered one of Paris's modern horrors; it is also a main access point, via Paris's rapid-transit commuter rail, to the predominantly Arab banlieues to the north.)
 The vast housing complex of Les Olympiades was built for Paris's then- booming middle class: teachers and academics as well as laborers. Today it is occupied mostly by Chinese immigrants. We climbed an escalator to a vast plaza two stories above street level, punctuated at the far end by a generic modern tower, its cast-concrete facade stained by water leaks. Two shorter apartment complexes framed it on either side. Sometime in the 1980s, a developer added some landscaping to make the plaza more welcoming, but the plants only make it look more forlorn.
 ''There is some life here,'' Nouvel said, leading me toward an arcade of shops in the tower's base. Inside, we passed a predictable assortment of hair salons, Chinese restaurants, video stores and pharmacies. The corridors were crowded with people coming home from work. Nouvel, with the practiced eye of an architect, noted that the proportions of the spaces were not bad. Interior walls could be knocked out to create bigger apartments, he said. Part of the plaza could be demolished to create a more direct connection to the street. But as Nouvel pointed out, the real issue is not whether this plaza can be saved. The question is what to do with the hundreds of developments like this one. ''The scale of the problem is impossible once you begin to look at it,'' Nouvel told me later as we sat in his office flipping through hundreds of nearly identical pictures taken from a helicopter above this city. ''The only possibility is to find a few strategic points of intervention. And then, maybe, you begin to imagine a different city.''
 Nouvel traced the outer edges of greater Paris on a map, outlining a border roughly 625 miles long. A range of generic middle-class communities lies just inside this line. Beyond is rural France, a patchwork of fields and forests. Nouvel's plan is to create a harder, more defined edge -- ''a thick band of gardens and fields that come right up to the front door, like a gigantic communal farmers' market. It is a place where you can grow tomatoes, care for children, play sports -- a whole ecological life can happen.''
 He proposes a similar strategy for the city's industrial canals, which could be framed by a mix of lushly landscaped parks and new housing developments. Rungis, the dreary suburb to the south where the city's abattoirs and markets were relocated after the destruction of Les Halles, would be transformed into a contemporary version of the old food halls. The nearby Orly airport could be opened to the surrounding area, so that the global elite and local residents might mingle in area restaurants and clubs. ''The point is that if we give people these things, then they have a reason to be there. They become real places, with their own identity, as interesting in their way as parts of central Paris.''
 One way to stitch the city back together is by re-engineering what already exists. Richard Rogers's proposal, for example, focuses on the six major rail lines that run in and out of the city center. Many of the system's soaring cast- and wrought-iron stations were intended as emblems of a mobile, modern society. But the tracks divide the outskirts of the city into a series of wedges. ''The track beds are sometimes 300 meters wide,'' Mike Davies, the partner in charge of the project, told me. ''What's interesting, however, is that they are radial -- like spokes. They're a natural place to bind the exterior and interior of the city.''
 Rogers and Davies propose partly submerging the tracks underground and covering them with big public parks. An interstitial layer would contain technological services: water-purification systems, train maintenance and recycling centers. Enormous light wells cut into the parks would illuminate the trains below. Isolated neighborhoods, which now have little green space, would be intimately woven into the city's fabric. And the parks would link to a vast new greenbelt defining the city's edge.
 Djamel Klouche, at 42 the youngest architect of the group, is also exploring the unique qualities of seemingly unsalvageable areas. Rather than demolish the dehumanizing apartment blocks in the poor and working-class suburbs, he proposes rethinking them. Walls might be blown out to create airier, loftlike apartments; bigger windows would let in more light. (This strategy is also being pursued by more-established French architects like Anne Lacaton and Jean-Philippe Vassal.) ''I live on the Boulevard de Strasbourg,'' Klouche said. ''A very noisy street. But heavier, more modern glass could shut out almost all of this noise, and suddenly this becomes a high-end luxurious apartment in the heart of Paris. Quieter electric cars, too, could eventually make corners of the city that now seem horrible quite beautiful.''
 Even more quixotically, Klouche imagines building ''social collectors that attract all kinds of people,'' like a semisubmerged ring of shops and parks near the freeways. His most-tongue-in-cheek proposal would extend this vision into the heart of the old city, building a commuter rail line and multi-tiered mall -- much like the current Forum des Halles -- underneath the Grand Louvre. Here immigrants and workers coming in on trains from the poorest suburbs would mix with tourists in the city's great palace of culture. ''The beginnings of it are already there,'' he insisted. ''The Grand Louvre is a classical shell, but when you enter it, it is a radically contemporary space. You could have a much more aggressive interaction between what's underground and the history above.'' Klouche's fantasy is unlikely ever to be built, but it underscores the tensions between achieving cultural integration in theory and doing so in practice. 
 ''We have to work with what's there,'' the Italian architect Bernardo Secchi, another participant in the design study, said recently. ''It is a city of 10, 11 million people; we can't destroy it. But we have to give a new spatial structure to this city.'' To save it, he says, we need to stop the city from spreading outward and to turn it in back on itself, to fill in these empty pockets with something of meaning.
 Sarkozy has asked the 10 architectural teams working on the Paris plan to collaborate and produce a more cohesive blueprint for the future. The chances of a definitive plan emerging from such an effort seem remote -- and even if one does, architecture won't solve all the city's social ills. Nonetheless, the Grand Paris project represents a critical shift in how we think of urbanism. The tabula rasa Modernist experiments of the 1960s and 1970s not only damaged cities across the world; their failure spelled the abandonment of visionary master planning. In places where large-scale urban projects did re-emerge, like China and the Middle East, older, poorer neighborhoods were often bulldozed to make room for new development at a frenetic pace, with little regard for how the pieces fit together.
 The plans presented for Grand Paris suggest that it is possible to believe, once again, that government can play a decisive role in achieving a truly egalitarian city -- and that architecture is essential to that transformation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: La Defense, the main business high-rise district. All photographs for this article were taken from a helicopter.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NAOKI HONJO) (pg. MM36)
In Richard Rogers's plan, armatures built over tracks would house, among other things, new renewable energy infrastructure systems.
The train tracks leading to the Gare Montparnasse, with La Tour-Maine Montparnasse, a '70s tower that caused an uproar when it was built, in the background.(pg. MM38)
La Tour Pleyel, a high-rise that was part of a more ambitious but abandoned plan in the '70s.
Christian de Portzamparc's plan for a new train station, Gare Nord Europe, and a mixed business and housing district. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NAOKI HONJO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES . TOP LEFT: ROGERS STIRK HARBOUR + PARTNERS . TOP RIGHT: ATELIER CHRISTIAN DE PORTZAMPARC.)(pg. MM39)
Jean Nouvel's proposed new skyline for La Defense would complement the towers built in the '60s and '70s.
 Parc de la Courneuve, with projects in the background. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAOKI HONJO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. TOP LEFT: ATELIERS JEAN NOUVEL. BOTTOM RIGHT: VINOLY ARCHITECTS.)(pg. MM40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); LIBRARIES (54%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



389 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2035 words

HEADLINE: Penetrating The Maze Of Mortgage Relief

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
SINCE President Obama unveiled a mortgage modification program in March to help people who are at risk of losing their homes, housing counselors in the New York area have fielded hundreds of calls along the lines of: ''How do I get one of those 2 percent mortgages?''
 The answer has often been, ''Well, it's not that simple.''
 Housing advocates who work with homeowners in foreclosure or on the verge of it say that while the loan modification program could help thousands of New Yorkers, it has been slow to get off the ground and a majority of people who have applied for help have yet to hear whether they will receive it. 
 One thing is clear: Homeowners who have a HUD-approved housing counselor championing their cause are more likely to get a modification than those who try it on their own. Housing counselors say they often understand the program's guidelines better than the people answering phones for lenders, so they know how to pursue a case aggressively. 
 The Center for New York City Neighborhoods, a public-private agency that connects homeowners with HUD-approved counselors at about 70 neighborhood organizations, has overseen 400 applications for the administration's Making Home Affordable program. So far, only about 100 of those mortgages have been modified; the rest are still pending with the lenders, with people often waiting more than 60 days for a response.
 ''The promise of this program is enormous,'' said Rafael Cestero, the commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''It's a brand-new program and it's a very complicated issue, but we all share the feeling that it's been moving too slowly.'' The federal program offsets some costs for banks that agree to modify mortgages.
 Mr. Cestero estimated that in addition to the 400 applications handled by the center, other agencies have probably processed 400 applications. ''When you think that almost all of those are in southeast Queens and some in eastern Brooklyn,'' he said, ''that's a lot of people in need in a not particularly big area.'' 
 Housing counselors say that while 15 lenders -- including major ones like Bank of America, CitiMortgage, Chase and Wells Fargo & Co. are participating, many have yet to fully train people to process the applications. 
 As a result, housing counselors say they often receive mixed signals, with different lenders offering different interpretations of the guidelines, including whether foreclosure actions can proceed while a loan modification is being considered and whether you have to be current on your payments to be eligible for a modification. (They can't and you don't.)
 In addition, the many mortgages that were bundled and sold to investors are now being handled by debt collectors known as servicers, not the banks themselves. ''That model doesn't work now because the servicers were set up for the good times and they're not prepared to deal with the catastrophe we're facing,'' said Michael Hickey, the executive director of the Center for New York City Neighborhoods. 
 The recession looms large, he added, as most of the people contacting the center now are having trouble paying their mortgages because they have taken pay cuts or lost work, not because their rates have reset at higher levels or because they have subprime loans. They include housekeepers who now have fewer houses to clean, construction workers and mechanics who have lost overtime, and limo drivers who are getting fewer rides and smaller tips. 
 Homeowners who have received foreclosure documents from lenders and those who may soon miss a mortgage payment are eligible for the program. To be eligible, a homeowner must have a monthly mortgage payment larger than 31 percent of their gross income. The monthly payments of those who qualify are lowered to the 31 percent limit. Lenders can do this by reducing interest rates to as low as 2 percent, by extending the term of the loan to 40 years or by deferring principal.
 Economists at the Federal Reserve estimate that about 500,000 people in the city meet the most basic criteria for eligibility -- namely that they themselves own and occupy the home, they received their mortgages before Jan. 1, 2009, and they owe less than $729,750. The estimate does not, however, take into account whether their payments are worth more than 31 percent of their current income.
 About 100,000 homeowners across the country so far have been extended loan modification offers, according to Meg Reilly, a spokeswoman for the Treasury Department. ''We are absolutely working to make things move faster and provide relief to more homeowners as soon as possible,'' Ms. Reilly said in an e-mail message. ''We are encouraging servicers to staff up, establishing a hotline for homeowners, looking for new tools to expedite this process, working with communities to get the word out about resources available to homeowners.''
 Lionel Ouellette, the executive director of Changer, a citywide housing advocacy group based in East New York, said that only 3 of the 18 people who have applied for a loan modification through Changer had been granted reduced mortgage payments and entered into a three-month trial period. Only after successfully making three payments at the lower rate will the homeowners be granted a permanent modification.
 The good news, Mr. Ouellette said, is that ''I see now that banks like Chase and Wells Fargo are utilizing a uniform contract, so moving forward, it should move a lot faster.''
 Kareen Esson of Jamaica, Queens, is working with Mr. Ouellette, and is one of the first to benefit from the program. She bought her two-story home for $417,000 in July 2007, at just about the height of the market.
 But she lost her job in mid-2008 and went into foreclosure after missing several mortgage payments. Her bank, Wells Fargo, refused to modify her loan last year. Ms. Esson found a new job working for the Salvation Army last fall and went to Changer for help in fighting foreclosure. Then, last month, because of the administration's program, the bank called her to say she might be eligible. She was told two weeks ago that she did indeed qualify.
 Mr. Ouellette helped to compile Ms. Esson's modification package, which includes tax returns, pay stubs, account balances for credit cards and other debts, and a hardship letter that details her financial situation and explains why she was struggling to pay her 7 percent interest-only mortgage. She has been told that her $2,897 monthly payment will be reduced to $2,123 for the next three months.
 But Mr. Ouellette hopes to have it reduced even more because, by his estimate, $2,123 is close to 39 percent of her household income, which includes Ms. Esson's salary and financial help from a cousin and a brother who live with her.
 Ms. Esson fits the profile of a homeowner well suited to the loan modification program, he said. She is a salaried employee with a steady income and ''a responsible homeowner who is organized and on top of her finances.''
 Mr. Ouellette and many other housing advocates in the city are concerned that the relative strength of the city's housing market may ultimately mean that the city will receive a disproportionately smaller share of loan modifications.
 The program allows servicers to run what is known as a net present value test, which essentially determines whether a present-day loan modification would be a better value for the mortgage investors than foreclosure.
 In places where property values have tanked and many people owe more than their properties are worth, servicers are more likely to opt for loan modifications because the homes would not be worth much to them in foreclosure, said Josh Zinner, a co-director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, known as Nedap.
 ''But in New York City, where values are still high and loan amounts are much higher than elsewhere, servicers might have to adjust the loans a lot more to make them affordable,'' Mr. Zinner said. ''We're concerned that a lot of the calculations will come out in favor of foreclosure instead of modification.''
 One problem, according to James Lewis, the program director at Changer, is that servicers are not required to tell borrowers how they run their net present value tests and how they determine a home's value. ''Remember, the servicers didn't come to this with open arms -- they came kicking and screaming,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''There needs to be more transparency. If you go to school and fail a test, you know why you failed; why shouldn't a homeowner know why they failed?''
 Under the program, the Treasury will subsidize every modification by paying lenders and mortgage servicers a share of the borrower's monthly reduction. Servicers are also given additional $1,000 incentive payments for every modified loan. 
 Mr. Cestero said that modifications would be tracked to make sure the city was not unfairly put at a disadvantage. ''While overall conditions are better than most places,'' he said, ''all you have to do is drive around southeast Queens and you can feel the market dislocation in those places.'' 
 The Chhaya Community Development Corporation works with people from Southeast Asia in Richmond Hill, Queens, and has helped about 50 homeowners apply for the modification program. It has yet to receive a single definitive response. ''A lot of these people had bad loans to begin with,'' said Seema Agnani, the executive director of Chhaya. ''And now they've had losses of income, not necessarily job loss, but they may be drivers who depend on tips or workers who depend on overtime.''
 Many of the homeowners also relied on rental income to meet their mortgage payments, and they have run into trouble because tenants have stopped paying rent. Some borrowers also have second mortgages, which they used for a down payment, Ms. Agnani said.
 ''You can debate whether these people deserve help because they may have loans that they shouldn't have gotten,'' Ms. Agnani said. ''But if we don't offer assistance now, they will lose their homes and that impacts everybody.'' 
 Bonita Dowling, a housing counselor at the Pratt Area Community Council in Bedford-Stuyvesant, said she recently helped three homeowners get temporary modifications.
 One homeowner who runs a cleaning business had fallen four months behind on her mortgage. Her monthly payments were more than $4,500 on a 10-year interest-only loan with an 8.5 percent interest rate; they have been reduced to $2,480 for the next three months. ''She has an awful loan and like a lot of my clients, she didn't understand what she was getting into,'' Ms. Dowling said.
 She and other housing advocates urge homeowners to seek help from housing counselors, not companies that charge for help. In fact, the Web site for the federal modification program states repeatedly: ''Beware of foreclosure rescue scams -- help is free!''
 ''Homeowners don't know how to get past the collections people and to the people who can actually help them,'' she said.
 That's apparently the case in the suburbs as well. Joanie LaFemina, the homeowner services program manager for the Community Development Corporation of Long Island, said that servicers may offer a modification, but keep it out of the administration's program to keep the reduction above the 31 percent debt-to-income ratio. 
 One of her clients, a couple in the town of Brookhaven, did get into the program and recently had their mortgage payment cut from $2,172 to $1,684, reducing their 10 percent mortgage rate to about 6 percent. Their bank refused to modify their loan last year. ''But after the president announced his program, it went from 'No deal' to 'Let's make a deal,' which is the whole point of the plan,'' she said.
 April Newbauer, the lawyer in charge at the Legal Aid Society in Queens, said that in theory, when the servicers signed up for the program, ''they should have been ready to swing into action and communicate with the people on the ground what to do.'' But she was not surprised by the slow start.
 ''It's hard to change institutional practices and business models,'' Ms. Newbauer said. ''And that's what we're talking about here.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the Obama administration's mortgage modification program for homeowners in risk of foreclosure referred incorrectly to the geographical origin of many people that the Chhaya Community Development Corporation works with in Queens. They are from South Asia, not Southeast Asia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAILBOX WATCH: Seema Agnani is the executive director of an agency that has helped about 50 homeowners in Richmond Hill, Queens, apply for loan modification. So far, no response. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE1)
ASSISTANCE Michael Hickey, top, the executive director of the Center for New York City Neighborhoods, and Lionel Ouellette, above, the executive director of Changer, are helping homeowners faced with foreclosure. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE
 CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW) (pg.RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



390 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: A Plea for Tolerance In Tight Shorts. Or Not.

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 SACHA BARON COHEN recently approached Elton John through a representative. Could he use ''Can You Feel the Love Tonight,'' Mr. John's hit song from ''The Lion King,'' for a pivotal scene in his forthcoming movie?
 ''Bruno,'' an R-rated comedy set for wide release by Universal Pictures on July 10, stars Mr. Baron Cohen as a flamboyantly gay fashion journalist from Austria. The filmmakers wanted to play the song during a scene in which the title character, participating in a cage-fighting match, pulls down his opponent's pants and kisses him on the mouth, prompting a horrified crowd to throw garbage at him.
 The answer was no. Mr. John, along with the Walt Disney Company, which owns the copyright to the song but seeks his approval in such matters, learned of the scene's particulars and blanched, according to one of Mr. John's advisers. But then Mr. John reversed himself -- kind of. He didn't want to be associated with the provocative scene, but he ultimately agreed to perform part of another song that functions as a coda to the film. 
 So it goes for ''Bruno,'' a movie that, in mercilessly exploiting the discomfort created when straight men are ambushed by aggressive gayness, happens to (surprise!) expose homophobia. Gay groups are reacting with deeply mixed emotions, heightened by the recent triumphs (Iowa) and losses (California) in efforts to legalize gay marriage. Is the film then vulgar, inappropriate and harmful? Or bold, timely and necessary? All of the above?
 Ultimately the tension surrounding ''Bruno'' boils down to the worry that certain viewers won't understand that the joke is on them and will leave the multiplex with their homophobia validated.
 ''Some people in our community may like this movie, but many are not going to be O.K. with it,'' said Rashad Robinson, senior director of media programs for the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. ''Sacha Baron Cohen's well-meaning attempt at satire is problematic in many places and outright offensive in others.''
 Holding the opposite view are people like Aaron Hickland, the editor of Out magazine, who said he plans to put Mr. Baron Cohen on the August cover. ''The movie does something hugely important, which is showing that people's attitudes can turn on a dime when they realize you're gay,'' Mr. Hickland said. ''The multiplex crowd wouldn't normally sit down for a two-hour lecture on homophobia, but that's exactly what's going to happen. I'm excited about that.''
 ''Bruno'' is not a lecture, at least not overtly. Like ''Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan,'' the 2006 smash that starred Mr. Baron Cohen as an anti-Semitic Kazakh journalist, ''Bruno'' is first and foremost a raunchy comedy featuring a not-so-bright guy who embraces sexism, racism and stereotypes as he happily goes about his business. Borat and Bruno are both familiar to fans of ''Da Ali G Show,'' Mr. Baron Cohen's satirical talk show, which first ran in Britain in 2000 and began appearing on HBO in 2003. 
 Yet ''Bruno'' is also intended as a statement about what it is like to be a member of a minority in America in 2009. Mr. Baron Cohen's malaprop-loaded antics are fictional, but the hate they can elicit from the people he encounters is ostensibly real. (The same was true of ''Borat,'' which some human rights groups also greeted with hostility; Abraham H. Foxman of the Anti-Defamation League said at the time that audiences ''may not always be sophisticated enough to get the joke.'')
 Bloggers have given ''Bruno'' an unofficial subtitle: ''Delicious Journeys Through America for the Purpose of Making Heterosexual Males Visibly Uncomfortable in the Presence of a Gay Foreigner in a Mesh T-Shirt.''
 Universal won't discuss the filmmaking process, but the studio insists that the vast majority of the people who appear with Mr. Baron Cohen had no idea they were being filmed for a Hollywood movie. Ads for ''Bruno'' trumpet, ''real people, real situations.'' 
 That was at least true of Representative Ron Paul of Texas, the former Republican presidential candidate. In a scene filmed in early 2008, Mr. Paul sits for an interview with the Baron Cohen character. (Mr. Paul has said he was told the topic would be Austrian economics.) When lighting trouble delays the interview, Mr. Baron Cohen strips to his underwear. Mr. Paul storms out muttering, ''This guy is a queer.''
 In a subsequent radio interview Mr. Paul said: ''I don't like the idea that he lies his way into an interview. To me it's a real shame that people are going to reward him with millions and millions of dollars for being so crass.''
 Judging from the way certain subjects in ''Borat'' reacted after that film was released, Universal's lawyers will be busy. At least six lawsuits were filed against the comic and 20th Century Fox, the ''Borat'' distributor. So far no plaintiffs have won, but some cases are on appeal. (Universal, which won a bidding war with 20th Century Fox for the distribution rights to ''Bruno,'' paying $42.5 million, seems happy to take the risk. ''Borat'' cost $18 million and brought in $262 million worldwide.)
 ''Bruno'' was served with its first lawsuit on May 22. According to a complaint filed by a California woman, Mr. Baron Cohen -- as Bruno -- infiltrated a charity bingo tournament and offended the elderly audience with vulgarities while calling a game. The plaintiff, Richelle Olson, contends that she was severely injured when she tried to grab the microphone away from him. In a statement Universal called the lawsuit ''completely baseless,'' noting that full footage of the encounter shows that Ms. Olson was never touched.
 As roles go, there is no ambiguity about Bruno: he is a limp-wristed, sex-crazed queen. Universal's promotional materials show him dressed in hot pants, leopard bikini underwear and riding nude on a unicorn.
 The character has evolved in appearance since the television show. This Bruno has plucked eyebrows and longish hair with blonde highlights. He wears mauve lipstick. Mr. Baron Cohen also appears to have shed several pounds of arm, leg and torso hair through waxing or electrolysis. 
 In one scene Bruno appears on a talk show holding a baby who is wearing a T-shirt reading ''Gayby.'' The sequence flashes back to Bruno having sex in a hot tub while the baby sits nearby. (A person who worked on the movie noted that the flashback consists of still images that were photoshopped no baby was actually present and that the sex is only strongly implied.) He then boasts to the outraged talk-show audience that the baby is a man magnet (only he uses unprintable language).
 In another scene Bruno, intent on becoming straight, goes to a martial arts instructor to learn how to protect himself from gay people. ''If they get close to you, hit them,'' the teacher says. How can you spot a gay man? ''Obvious is a person being extremely nice'' is the answer. Gays can be tricky, the instructor warns: ''Some of them don't even dress no different than myself or you.''
 The movie also touches on the reckless pursuit of fame. For instance, under the pretext of conducting a ''glamorous baby'' photo shoot, Bruno interviews real moms and dads, many holding their babies on their laps. He asks one mother ''is your baby comfortable with bees, wasps and hornets?'' She answers, ''George is comfortable with everything.'' Dead or dying animals? ''Yes.''
 ''Can Olivia lose 10 pounds in the next week?'' Bruno asks another mother, who doesn't bat an eyelash: ''Yeah, I'd have to do whatever I could,'' she says. 
 Mr. Baron Cohen declined to be interviewed for this article, as did Larry Charles, who directed the film (as well as ''Borat''). Universal also declined to make a production executive available for an interview, providing the following statement instead:
 '' 'Bruno' uses provocative comedy to powerfully shed light on the absurdity of many kinds of intolerance and ignorance, including homophobia. By placing himself in radical and risky situations, Sacha Baron Cohen forces both the people Bruno meets and the audience itself to challenge their own stereotypes, preconceptions and discomforts.
 ''While any work that dares to address relevant cultural sensitivities might be misinterpreted by some or offend others, we believe the overwhelming majority of the audience will understand and appreciate the film's inarguably positive intentions.''
 The studio has twice shown unfinished versions of ''Bruno'' to the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and said that test audiences have come away with a clear understanding of the film's positive social message. Universal also said that it screened 20 minutes of unedited footage at a Texas film festival this year, and that blog coverage was overwhelmingly upbeat.
 Marketing ''Bruno'' poses unusual challenges for Universal, as some multiplex chains will only run trailers to R-rated films before other R-rated movies. And a stunt at the MTV Movie Awards on June 1 may have damaged the movie's credibility, film marketers say. 
 During the show Mr. Baron Cohen, dressed as Bruno, dangled above the audience from wires wearing a jock strap and giant white wings. He landed face down in the lap of the rapper Eminem, who stormed out of the theater. The problem: Eminem admitted to being in on the stunt -- and thus faking his reaction -- which may lead audiences to doubt the studio's assertion that actors were not used in the film.
 Meanwhile the debate among gay rights advocates goes on. 
 ''We strongly feel that Sacha Baron Cohen and Universal Pictures have a responsibility to remind the viewing public right there in the theater that this is intended to expose homophobia,'' said Brad Luna, a spokesman for Human Rights Campaign.
 Cathy Renna, who left the Gay and Lesbian Alliance after 14 years to start her own similarly focused consulting firm, said she thinks gay audiences will greet the film warmly. ''Of all minority groups I think gay people are the most likely to be able to laugh at themselves,'' she said. ''If nothing else, let's hope this prompts a lot of conversation.''
 Will the stereotypes Mr. Baron Cohen explores offer support to opponents of gay marriage?
 ''I don't think that any conservative group is going to use 'Bruno' to make a point about how awful gay people are,'' said Frank Voci, the founder of White Knot, a nonprofit group focused on gay rights. ''If they try to go there, we can easily turn around and point out how horribly these people reacted to him being gay.''
 Universal would be happy if more people just took the position of Dustin Lance Black, who won an Oscar for his screenplay of ''Milk'' and has been an outspoken opponent of California's recent ban on gay marriage.
 Asked for his thoughts on ''Bruno,'' Mr. Black responded by e-mail, ''Sadly, I haven't seen the film yet!''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the Sacha Baron Cohen movie ''Bruno'' misstated the date of the MTV Movie Awards, during which Mr. Cohen, appearing in character, dangled from wires and descended onto the rapper Eminem's lap. The awards took place May 31, not June 1. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sacha Baron Cohen in the title role of ''Bruno,'' a comedy that trafficks in homosexual stereotypes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK SCHWARTZBARD/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) (pg.AR1)
Sacha Baron Cohen, left with Isla Fisher, plays Bruno, above, a flamboyantly gay Austrian fashion writer
above left, he made an airborne entrance May 31 at the MTV Movie Awards. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
UNIVERSAL PICTURES
 MATT SAYLES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg.AR20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); CONTENT RATINGS (77%); WRITERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); COPYRIGHT (54%); MARRIAGE (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (70%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (70%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Bruno (Movie); Bruno (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



391 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: The Obama Haters' Silent Enablers

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
WHEN a Fox News anchor, reacting to his own network's surging e-mail traffic, warns urgently on-camera of a rise in hate-filled, ''amped up'' Americans who are ''taking the extra step and getting the gun out,'' maybe we should listen. He has better sources in that underground than most.
 The anchor was Shepard Smith, speaking after Wednesday's mayhem at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. Unlike the bloviators at his network and elsewhere on cable, Smith is famous for his highly caffeinated news-reading, not any political agenda. But very occasionally -- notably during Hurricane Katrina -- he hits the Howard Beale mad-as-hell wall. Joining those at Fox who routinely disregard the network's ''We report, you decide'' mantra, he both reported and decided, loudly. 
 What he reported was this: his e-mail from viewers had ''become more and more frightening'' in recent months, dating back to the election season. From Wednesday alone, he ''could read a hundred'' messages spewing ''hate that's not based in fact,'' much of it about Barack Obama and some of it sharing the museum gunman's canard that the president was not a naturally born citizen. These are Americans ''out there in a scary place,'' Smith said. 
 Then he brought up another recent gunman: ''If you're one who believes that abortion is murder, at what point do you go out and kill someone who's performing abortions?'' An answer, he said, was provided by Dr. George Tiller's killer. He went on: ''If you are one who believes these sorts of things about the president of the United States ...'' He left the rest of that chilling sentence unsaid.
 These are extraordinary words to hear on Fox. The network's highest-rated star, Bill O'Reilly, had assailed Tiller, calling him ''Tiller the baby killer'' and likening him to the Nazis, on 29 of his shows before the doctor was murdered at his church in Kansas. O'Reilly was unrepentant, stating that only ''pro-abortion zealots and Fox News haters'' would link him to the crime. But now another Fox star, while stopping short of blaming O'Reilly, was breaching his network's brand of political correctness: he tied the far-right loners who had gotten their guns out in Wichita and Washington to the mounting fury of Obama haters.
 What is this fury about? In his scant 145 days in office, the new president has not remotely matched the Bush record in deficit creation. Nor has he repealed the right to bear arms or exacerbated the wars he inherited. He has tried more than his predecessor ever did to reach across the aisle. But none of that seems to matter. A sizable minority of Americans is irrationally fearful of the fast-moving generational, cultural and racial turnover Obama embodies -- indeed, of the 21st century itself. That minority is now getting angrier in inverse relationship to his popularity with the vast majority of the country. Change can be frightening and traumatic, especially if it's not change you can believe in.
 We don't know whether the tiny subset of domestic terrorists in this crowd is egged on by political or media demagogues -- though we do tend to assume that foreign jihadists respond like Pavlov's dogs to the words of their most fanatical leaders and polemicists. But well before the latest murderers struck -- well before another ''antigovernment'' Obama hater went on a cop-killing rampage in Pittsburgh in April -- there have been indications that this rage could spiral out of control. 
 This was evident during the campaign, when hotheads greeted Obama's name with ''Treason!'' and ''Terrorist!'' at G.O.P. rallies. At first the McCain-Palin campaign fed the anger with accusations that Obama was ''palling around with terrorists.'' But later John McCain thought better of it and defended his opponent's honor to a town-hall participant who vented her fears of the Democrats' ''Arab'' candidate. Although two neo-Nazi skinheads were arrested in an assassination plot against Obama two weeks before Election Day, the fever broke after McCain exercised leadership.
 That honeymoon, if it was one, is over. Conservatives have legitimate ideological beefs with Obama, rightly expressed in sharp language. But the invective in some quarters has unmistakably amped up. The writer Camille Paglia, a political independent and confessed talk-radio fan, detected a shift toward paranoia in the air waves by mid-May. When ''the tone darkens toward a rhetoric of purgation and annihilation,'' she observed in Salon, ''there is reason for alarm.'' She cited a ''joke'' repeated by a Rush Limbaugh fill-in host, a talk-radio jock from Dallas of all places, about how ''any U.S. soldier'' who found himself with only two bullets in an elevator with Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid and Osama bin Laden would use both shots to assassinate Pelosi and then strangle Reid and bin Laden. 
 This homicide-saturated vituperation is endemic among mini-Limbaughs. Glenn Beck has dipped into O'Reilly's Holocaust analogies to liken Obama's policy on stem-cell research to the eugenics that led to ''the final solution'' and the quest for ''a master race.'' After James von Brunn's rampage at the Holocaust museum, Beck rushed onto Fox News to describe the Obama-hating killer as a ''lone gunman nutjob.'' Yet in the same show Beck also said von Brunn was a symptom that ''the pot in America is boiling,'' as if Beck himself were not the boiling pot cheering the kettle on. 
 But hyperbole from the usual suspects in the entertainment arena of TV and radio is not the whole story. What's startling is the spillover of this poison into the conservative political establishment. Saul Anuzis, a former Michigan G.O.P. chairman who ran for the party's national chairmanship this year, seriously suggested in April that Republicans should stop calling Obama a socialist because ''it no longer has the negative connotation it had 20 years ago, or even 10 years ago.'' Anuzis pushed ''fascism'' instead, because ''everybody still thinks that's a bad thing.'' He didn't seem to grasp that ''fascism'' is nonsensical as a description of the Obama administration or that there might be a risk in slurring a president with a word that most find ''bad'' because it evokes a mass-murderer like Hitler.
 The Anuzis ''fascism'' solution to the Obama problem has caught fire. The president's nomination of Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court and his speech in Cairo have only exacerbated the ugliness. The venomous personal attacks on Sotomayor have little to do with the 3,000-plus cases she's adjudicated in nearly 17 years on the bench or her thoughts about the judgment of ''a wise Latina woman.'' She has been tarred as a member of ''the Latino KKK'' (by the former Republican presidential candidate Tom Tancredo), as well as a racist and a David Duke (by Limbaugh), and portrayed, in a bizarre two-for-one ethnic caricature, as a slant-eyed Asian on the cover of National Review. Uniting all these insults is an aggrieved note of white victimization only a shade less explicit than that in von Brunn's white supremacist screeds. 
 Obama's Cairo address, meanwhile, prompted over-the-top accusations reminiscent of those campaign rally cries of ''Treason!'' It was a prominent former Reagan defense official, Frank Gaffney, not some fringe crackpot, who accused Obama in The Washington Times of engaging ''in the most consequential bait-and-switch since Adolf Hitler duped Neville Chamberlain.'' He claimed that the president -- a lifelong Christian -- ''may still be'' a Muslim and is aligned with ''the dangerous global movement known as the Muslim Brotherhood.'' Gaffney linked Obama by innuendo with Islamic ''charities'' that ''have been convicted of providing material support for terrorism.''
 If this isn't a handy rationalization for another lone nutjob to take the law into his own hands against a supposed terrorism supporter, what is? Any such nutjob can easily grab a weapon. Gun enthusiasts have been on a shopping spree since the election, with some areas of our countryreporting percentage sales increasesin the mid-to-high double digits, recession be damned. 
 The question, Shepard Smith said on Fox last week, is ''if there is really a way to put a hold on'' those who might run amok. We're not about to repeal the First or Second Amendments. Hard-core haters resolutely dismiss any ''mainstream media'' debunking of their conspiracy theories. The only voices that might penetrate their alternative reality -- I emphasize might -- belong to conservative leaders with the guts and clout to step up as McCain did last fall. Where are they? The genteel public debate in right-leaning intellectual circles about the conservative movement's future will be buried by history if these insistent alarms are met with silence. 
 It's typical of this dereliction of responsibility that when the Department of Homeland Security released a plausible (and, tragically, prescient) report about far-right domestic terrorism two months ago, the conservative response was to trash it as ''the height of insult,'' in the words of the G.O.P. chairman Michael Steele. But as Smith also said last week, Homeland Security was ''warning us for a reason.''
 No matter. Last week it was business as usual, as Republican leaders nattered ad infinitum over the juvenile rivalry of Sarah Palin and Newt Gingrich at the party's big Washington fund-raiser. Few if any mentioned, let alone questioned, the ominous script delivered by the actor Jon Voight with the G.O.P. imprimatur at that same event. Voight's devout wish was to ''bring an end to this false prophet Obama.'' 
 This kind of rhetoric, with its pseudo-Scriptural call to action, is toxic. It is getting louder each day of the Obama presidency. No one, not even Fox News viewers, can say they weren't warned. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); MURDER (86%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (72%); HOLOCAUST (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); HURRICANES (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); ABORTION (69%); SHOOTINGS (58%); HURRICANE KATRINA (54%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); BILL O'REILLY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%) KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



392 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Backing Up an Agent's Pitch

BYLINE: By DAN ROSENHECK. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Perhaps the scariest-looking acronym in the alphabet soup of advanced baseball metrics that have arisen in recent years is TINSTAAPP: There Is No Such Thing As A Pitching Prospect. From iconic flops like Todd Van Poppel to flashes in the pan like Mark Fidrych, countless hyped hurlers have disappointed their starry-eyed fans. And an elite college pedigree does little to increase one's chances of success: just ask the only 20-game winners in N.C.A.A. history, Derek Tatsuno of the 1979 Hawaii Rainbows (who went 20-1 with a 1.86 earned run average) and Mike Loynd of the 1986 Florida State Seminoles (20-3, 2.45).
 The latest highly touted phenom is Stephen Strasburg (13-1, 1.32), the 20-year-old San Diego State right-hander, who was picked first over all in last week's amateur draft by the Washington Nationals. His agent, Scott Boras, has already argued that Strasburg is unique and that the normal guidelines for signing bonuses should not apply to him. Instead, Boras contends, Strasburg should be compared to the top major-league-ready Japanese pitchers, implying that he plans to use the six-year, $52 million deal he negotiated with the Red Sox for Daisuke Matsuzaka as a starting point. 
 ''The risk factors are extremely low,'' Boras said recently, referring to Strasburg. ''Frankly, the risk factors are zero.''
 Needless to say, if Nationals General Manager Mike Rizzo believes that, he may consider checking out an interest-only mortgage on a split-level ranch in Southern California. But before dismissing Boras's hyperbole as the proverbial boy crying wolf, it is worth recalling the oft-forgotten second moral of that story: sometimes there really is a wolf. Is it possible that with Strasburg, this time could actually be different?
 Strasburg's collegiate achievements are in a class by themselves. The closest comparables in the last decade, Mark Prior and Jered Weaver, struck out 38 percent and 40 percent of opposing batters. Strasburg posted a mark of 49 percent. Strikeout rate is the single best predictor of a pitcher's future performance.
 But while ranking college pitchers is fairly straightforward, converting their statistics to major league equivalents is much more challenging. No two programs have the same schedule, and only a handful of players have gone straight from college to the majors, meaning there is little data for a direct comparison.
 To overcome these obstacles, analysts are forced to resort to the quantitative equivalent of duct tape and super glue to estimate the quality of college competition. Most statistical indicators say nothing about the overall level of play in a league: if both the pitchers and hitters at one level are better than those in another, their performances will cancel out. But a few figures avoid this effect, such as error rate (which measures the quality of the fielders) and the frequency of hit batsmen (which measures pitchers' control). These numbers, taken together, can provide a quick approximation of a league's strength. They suggest that Strasburg faced opposition roughly comparable to that of a middling Class A minor league squad.
 Using those sketchy parameters, Boras's assertion that Strasburg is a major-league-ready talent seems to be more than just a negotiating ploy. According to Clay Davenport of Baseball Prospectus, had Strasburg been pitching for Washington instead of San Diego State this year, he would have compiled a 3.54 E.R.A. (which would rank 18th among qualifiers in the National League) and struck out 9.3 batters per nine innings (good for ninth). By contrast, Prior's college numbers were consistent with a 3.89 major league E.R.A., and Weaver's with a 4.51.
 That does not guarantee that Strasburg will produce similar numbers for the Nationals. Even if he stays healthy, he could simply have had a career year at age 20. But it does suggest he would be at worst an above-average major league starter right now. Pitchers often develop more quickly than hitters -- just look at what Dwight Gooden and Kerry Wood achieved at 20 -- and given their propensity to get hurt, every pitch an elite prospect throws to overmatched minor league batters is one that is wasted by the big club. Because the Nationals have only one starter with an E.R.A. under 5.00, they may be well advised to put Strasburg on their roster as soon as they can sign him.
 Signing him, of course, will not be easy. But it is important to remember that amateur draftees, because they lack the leverage to negotiate with other clubs, are generally paid far less than the value they generate for their employers. Strasburg is almost certainly comparable to the second tier of last year's free-agent starters, which included A. J. Burnett, Derek Lowe and Ryan Dempster, all of whom received contracts worth around $15 million a year. Whatever Washington winds up paying Strasburg will still be less than the cost of acquiring a similarly valuable veteran. 
 Buckling to Boras's demands is obviously unpleasant. And Commissioner Bud Selig will surely pressure the Nationals to avoid establishing a new salary scale for amateurs, who represent the single biggest source of profit for the owners. But losing the rights to Strasburg over a few million dollars would epitomize being penny wise and pound foolish.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Lerner, an owner of the Washington Nationals, approving the club's No. 1 selection of Stephen Strasburg on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY LENNY IGNELZI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



393 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Something's Got to Give In Medicare Spending

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
 MEDICARE expenditures threaten to crush the federal budget, yet the Obama administration is proposing that we start by spending more now so we can spend less later. 
 This runs the risk of becoming the new voodoo economics. If we can't realize significant savings in health care costs now, don't expect savings in the future, either.
 It's not the profits of the drug companies or the overhead of the insurance companies that make American health care so expensive, but the financial incentives for doctors and medical institutions to recommend more procedures, whether or not they are effective. So far, the American people have been unwilling to say no. 
 Drawing upon the ideas of the Harvard economist David Cutler, the Obama administration talks of empowering an independent board of experts to judge the comparative effectiveness of health care expenditures; the goal is to limit or withdraw Medicare support for ineffective ones. This idea is long overdue, and the critics who contend that it amounts to ''rationing'' or ''the government telling you which medical treatments you can have'' are missing the point. The motivating idea is the old conservative chestnut that not every private-sector expenditure deserves a government subsidy.
 Nonetheless, this principle is radical in its implications and has met with resistance. In particular, Congress has not been willing to give up its power over what is perhaps the government's single most important program, nor should we expect such a surrender of power in the future. There is already a Medicare Advisory Payment Commission, but it isn't allowed to actually cut costs.
 Scholars have been applying comparative-effectiveness research to Medicare for years, and the verdict is not altogether pretty. It turns out that some regions spend more on Medicare than others -- sometimes two or three times as much, as documented by the Dartmouth Atlas Project. Yet the higher-spending regions often fail to produce superior health care results.
 Robin Hanson, professor of economics at George Mason University, surveys evidence demonstrating the ineffectiveness of many medical expenditures in his 2007 paper, ''Showing That You Care.''
 If we are willing to take comparative-effectiveness studies seriously, we could make significant cuts in Medicare costs right now. We could cut some reimbursement rates, limit coverage for some of the more speculative treatments, like some forms of knee and back surgery, and place more limits on end-of-life-care.
 Those cuts alone will not solve the fiscal problem, but if we aren't willing to take even limited steps to conserve resources, we shouldn't be spending any more money elsewhere.
 Of course, we have not made such Medicare spending cuts yet, and there are few signs that we will. A Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that 67 percent of Americans believe that they do not receive enough treatment and that only 16 percent believe that they have received unnecessary care. If the Obama administration covers more people with government-supplied or government-subsidized insurance, the political support will broaden for generous benefits, their continuation and, indeed, expansion of current expenditures. 
 Suggested ways to lower costs include an emphasis on preventive care, the use of electronic medical records and increased competition among insurers. But even if these are likely to improve the quality of care, they are speculative and uncertain as cost-saving measures. Keep in mind that while computers were remarkably powerful inventions, it took decades before they showed up in the statistics as having improved productivity in the workplace. 
 One idea embodied in a bill sponsored by Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, is to finance new health care programs by taxing health insurance benefits. This makes sense in principle: why should insurance benefits be favored over salary by our tax system? But employer-supplied insurance is a mainstay of the current health care system, and there is no adequate replacement immediately in sight.
 IT'S also hard to convince the American public that the solution to insufficient health insurance is to tax health insurance. And such a one-time tax increase would postpone but not eliminate the need to come to grips with ever-rising Medicare costs. 
 It sounds harsh to suggest that the Obama administration cut areas of Medicare spending, but, too often, increased expenditures and coverage are confused with good health care outcomes. The reality is that our daily environment, our social status and our behavior -- including diet and exercise -- have more to do with good health than does health care more narrowly defined. 
 The demand for universal coverage sounds like a moral imperative to ''take care of everybody,'' but in reality it would make only a marginal difference when it comes to the overall health of the American population. The sober reality is that universal coverage is another way to spend money, which may or may not be a good idea. 
 The most likely possibility is that the government will spend more on health care today, promise to realize savings tomorrow and never succeed in lowering costs. It is rare that governments successfully cut costs by first spending more money. 
 Mr. Obama has pledged to be a fiscally responsible president. This is the biggest chance so far to see whether he means it. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); INSURANCE (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



394 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: American Macho

BYLINE: By BEVERLY GAGE. 
Beverly Gage, a history professor at Yale, is the author of ''The Day Wall Street Exploded: A Story of America in Its First Age of Terror.''

 BODY:
REBIRTH OF A NATION
 The Making of Modern America, 1877-1920
 By Jackson Lears
 Illustrated. 418 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99
 On March 11, 2003, about a week before President George W. Bush began bombing Iraq, the cultural historian Jackson Lears published an Op-Ed article in The New York Times pleading for sanity. He sensed that it was already too late, and suggested that war opponents might be ''fingering a rabbit's foot from time to time.'' As a historian, however, Lears couldn't help asking when the ''regenerative'' impulse to seek national glory through war first took root. The result is ''Rebirth of a Nation,'' a fascinating cultural history that locates the origins of Bush-era belligerence in the anxieties and modernizing impulses of the late 19th century. 
 Lears describes his bookas a ''synthetic reinterpretation'' of the Gilded Age and Progressive Era, an effort to dislodge classics like Richard Hofstadter's ''Age of Reform''(1955) and Robert Wiebe's ''Search for Order, 1877-1920''(1967). It's an ambitious project; both books, despite legions of critics, have shown remarkable staying power. Fortunately, Lears is well qualified for the task. One of the deans of American cultural history (as well as a professor at Rutgers University), Lears has spent decades writing about turn-of-the-20th-century debates over consumerism, modernity, religion and market capitalism. With ''Rebirth of a Nation,'' he expands his vision to include politics, war and the presidency as well.
 The book's title -- a play on D. W. Griffith's 1915 film ''The Birth of a Nation'' -- suggests two of Lears's greatest revisionist concerns: the lasting influence of Civil War violence and ''the rising significance of race.'' Beginning in the 1870s, he argues, Americans attempted to stitch their country back together around a ''militarist fantasy'' of Anglo-Saxon supremacy. Yet rather than bringing the hoped-for personal and national redemption, their efforts produced tragedy. According to Lears, the same cultural logic that justified lynching in the American South and the conquest of American Indians in the West eventually led to war in Cuba, the Philippines and Europe -- and, a century later, to our own mess in Iraq. 
 Lears is hardly the first scholar to address these themes. But he is among the most far-reaching, seeking to redefine an era known for its reformist energies as a time when militarism and racismall too often triumphed over more pacific, democratic ideals. Like any good synthesis, ''Rebirth of a Nation''dutifully covers the major trends of the age: the rise of industrial capitalism, the expansion of American empire, the tightening chokehold of Jim Crow. What brings new life to this material is the book's emphasis on how Americans' ''inner lives'' came to shape their outer worlds. Events that appear to be struggles for conquest and plunder turn out, in Lears's view, to be animated by a personal search for meaning. ''The rise of total war between the Civil War and World War I was rooted in longings for release from bourgeois normality into a realm of heroic struggle,'' he writes. ''This was the desperate anxiety, the yearning for rebirth, that lay behind official ideologies of romantic nationalism, imperial progress and civilizing mission -- and that led to the trenches of the Western Front.''
 This approach can exaggerate the impact of culture (great-power diplomacy, too, led to the trenches). But ''Rebirth of a Nation'' captures something undeniably powerful about the nation's psychic crisis as it recovered from the wounds of civil war. The late 19th century brought vast change at nearly every level of culture and society, from the growth of white-collar employment to the dislocations of mass immigration and urbanization. This crisis was particularly acute for white men, who found their traditional sources of power and identity challenged at every turn. In response, Lears writes, they turned to solutions ranging from the muscular Christianity of the Y.M.C.A. to the Populist struggle for self-determination to bloody conflicts on the battlefield. 
 Lears's ''poster boy'' for this aggressive new masculinity is Teddy Roosevelt, whose blend of boosterism, progressivism and unabashed imperialism captured both its high ideals and serious dangers. Like so many reformers, Roosevelt sought to remake American society along more equitable and democratic lines. At the same time, he believed that Anglo-Saxon men possessed a God-given right to dominate the world. In both cases, Lears suggests, Roosevelt's politics were the product of a profound internal struggle. ''There must be control,'' Roosevelt wrote in the 1890s. ''There must be mastery, somewhere, and if there is no self-control and self-mastery, the control and the mastery will ultimately be imposed from without.'' He was writing to Rudyard Kipling about the problem of governing ''dark-hued'' peoples, but he might as well have been writing about his own psyche.
 While Roosevelt serves as the book's protagonist, its pages are filled with lively portraits of other period figures, from the escape artist Harry Houdini to the settlement house worker and peace activist Jane Addams. Lears uses these men and women as exemplars of broad cultural trends: Houdini transformed magic ''from spiritualism to strenuousness''; Addams represented ''an alternative to militarism for romantic young professionals.'' ''Rebirth of a Nation'' also includes glimpses of humbler Americans eking out lives at the margins of the era's great conflicts. In one moving section, Lears recounts the story of Emily French, a ''hard-worked woman,'' in her words, whose abandonment by her husband left her nearly destitute (and who happened to keep a detailed diary of her struggles).
 At times, it's not quite clear how these disparate figures all fit into the theme of ''rebirth,'' a concept at once highly specific and conveniently broad. In addition, Lears never satisfyingly explains why the brutality of the Civil War spawned dreams of heroics, while World War I produced a consensus that American soldiers were ''dying in vain.'' But these are minor quibbles. ''Rebirth of a Nation''is a major work by a leading historian at the top of his game -- at once engaging and tightly argued. Like the best histories, it is also a book that speaks to our own time. 
 In his conclusion, Lears explicitly identifies Roosevelt as George W. Bush's true ''ideological ancestor,'' a rebuttal to those who would place the universalist Woodrow Wilson first in the Iraq war's genealogy. Still, it's on the subject of economic culture -- long a staple of Lears's work -- that ''Rebirth of a Nation''delivers its most pointed critique. Lears completed his manuscript before the current financial crisis, and before the Obama administration came to power advertising its own message of ''rebirth.'' His descriptions of budding American consumerism nonetheless resonate strongly with present-day concerns. 
 In his chapter on ''The Mysterious Power of Money,'' Lears quotes Mark Twain satirizing the excesses of the first Gilded Age: ''Beautiful credit! The foundation of modern society. Who shall say that this is not the golden age of mutual trust, of unlimited reliance upon human promises?'' The reality, Lears reminds us, was far less glamorous. ''A great deal of waste, fraud and corruption went into the making of the modern American economy,'' he writes in a description that might be transferred wholesale to our own Gilded Age, ''and much of it was concentrated on Wall Street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Theodore Roosevelt in Africa, 1909.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD VAN ALTENA/LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (FROM ''REBIRTH OF A NATION'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (51%)

TITLE: Rebirth of a Nation (Book); Rebirth of a Nation (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



395 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking The Reagan Mystique

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
For a liberal Democrat, President Obama has offered generous praise for the most celebrated of his recent Republican predecessors.
 Mr. Obama has credited Ronald Reagan with having ''changed the trajectory of America'' in ways Bill Clinton didn't. ''President Reagan helped as much as any president to restore a sense of optimism in our country, a spirit that transcended politics,'' Mr. Obama said earlier this month while signing the Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission Act in the presence of Nancy Reagan.
 It's not surprising that Mr. Obama has embraced Mr. Reagan's achievement since it seems akin to his own aspirations and might also ingratiate him with conservatives. What is surprising is the increasingly ambiguous position Mr. Reagan holds on the right.
 Some Republicans have begun reassessing whether Mr. Reagan today affords the best example as they seek a path back to power. The economic crisis, which Mr. Obama last fall declared a ''final verdict'' on the anti-government philosophy that George W. Bush and Mr. Reagan shared, has made Reaganism less politically marketable than at any time in a generation. 
 ''I don't use him publicly as a reference point,'' said Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a Republican who lately has emerged as a potential national party leader. Mr. Daniels instead has urged fellow Republicans to ''let go'' of Mr. Reagan as a contemporary symbol.
 As Mr. Reagan's White House political director, Mr. Daniels brings credibility to the discussion. A year ago, when he first proposed that Republicans turn the page he drew sharp criticism from Rush Limbaugh, among others. Now, Mr. Daniels observes, ''I think it's spreading.'' 
 That's not to say Republicans disavow Mr. Reagan's achievements, which include cutting tax rates, presiding over the successful conclusion of the cold war and, as Mr. Obama noted, boosting morale after a period of national self-doubt. Indeed a recent video made by a conservative group includes Newt Gingrich invoking Mr. Reagan in the terms of old: ''His rendezvous with destiny is a reminder that we all have a similar rendezvous,'' Mr. Gingrich said, reflecting the admiration for Mr. Reagan that is still in force among the party's conservative base.
 Mr. Daniels, too, hails his former boss for ''timeless'' principles like suspicion of big government and appreciation of the importance of individual freedom and opportunity. As he tackles issues in Indiana -- education policy lately is a hot topic -- he says he asks himself whether Mr. Reagan would approve.
 But ''Reagan always faced forward,'' the governor said. ''If he were around, he'd tell Republicans to do that now. He'd be the last to want the focus on him.''
 What's needed instead, said Reihan Salam, co-author of ''Grand New Party: How Republicans Can Win the Working Class and Save the American Dream,'' is ''something new -- the anti-Obama, anti-Reagan.'' Mr. Salam, whose co-author is Ross Douthat, an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times, was born in 1979 -- a year before Mr. Reagan was elected to his first term. Mr. Salam said he favored a new prototype of Republican leadership that projected humility rather than grandeur, understated competence rather than soaring rhetoric and vision.
 Much has changed since the 2008 campaign, when the Republican contenders all were openly competing to be Mr. Reagan's true heir. In one debate, Fred Thompson invoked Mr. Reagan on tax cuts; Mitt Romney hailed him for championing ''our military,' ''our economy'' and ''our family values''; while John McCain linked ''my dear and beloved Ronald Reagan'' with his own support for free trade.
 In accepting the nomination, Mr. McCain branded Republicans as the party of three heroes: Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt and Mr. Reagan. In this he followed George W. Bush, who in 2004 pointed to Mr. Reagan rather than his own father as the president whose spirit ''will always define our party.''
 At the time it wasn't hard to see why. Republicans have long viewed Mr. Reagan's presidency as vastly more successful than that of the elder Mr. Bush -- or any other recent Republican president. And the public seemed to agree.
 Mr. Reagan's approval ratings rose sharply after he left office -- from 53 percent in 1988, at the end of his time in office, to 73 percent by 2002, according to Gallup. But it's not clear the Reagan election model can work in the 21st century, as America's population has become more diverse. In 1980, Mr. Reagan thrashed Jimmy Carter by winning 55 percent of the white vote. Mr. McCain, as it happens, matched that percentage in 2008, but lost decisively to Mr. Obama. The difference, according to exit polls, is that whites represented 74 percent of the overall electorate last year, down from 88 percent in 1980. At the same time, blacks and Hispanics collectively accounted for 22 percent of the vote in 2008, up from 12 percent in 1980.
 But demographics tell only part of the story. There is also the arrival of a new slate of pressing issues. It has been 20 years since Mr. Reagan's plea to ''tear down that wall'' was answered by the fall of Communism. The 70 percent top income tax rate Mr. Reagan called confiscatory now stands at half that level. And the cultural appeals he made to blue-collar voters and evangelicals have lost their immediacy, displaced by economic concerns. Many remember that Mr. Reagan identified government as ''the problem.'' But today an increasing number of voters look to the government for security and stability. 
 Perhaps most important, the principal early line of attack Republicans have offered against Mr. Obama, that he is a profligate spender who will run up massive deficits, is also the area where the Reagan Revolution looks most vulnerable today, as critics on the right have pointed out. ''The federal payroll was larger in 1989 than it had been in 1981,'' Richard Gamble wrote last month in American Conservative magazine. ''Reagan's tax cuts, whatever their merits as short-term fiscal policy, left large and growing budget deficits when combined with increased spending, and added to the national debt.''
 To be sure, Mr. Reagan's failure to curb the cost of government reflected the enduring difficulty all presidents face in balancing the government services Americans want with the taxes they're willing to pay. But today it seems, increasingly, that it was Mr. Reagan and his admirer, George W. Bush, who contributed most to the problem of runaway spending, at least among recent presidents. 
 Some Republican critics also now point to shortcomings in Mr. Reagan's governing style. ''The most dangerous legacy Reagan bequeathed his party was his legacy of cheerful indifference to detail,'' the conservative thinker David Frum wrote in his recent book, ''Comeback: Conservatism That Can Win Again.'' ''The next Republican president needs to master details, understand his options and make his decisions with care.''
 Meanwhile, Democrats embrace the possibility that it is Mr. Obama who may duplicate Mr. Reagan's political triumphs: restoring luster to the presidency after an unpopular predecessor and also fundamentally shifting the direction of American politics.
 ''They came at the end of a period of one-party hegemony,'' David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's chief political adviser, said of his boss and of Mr. Reagan. ''Both of them were major candidates of change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE SOUZA/WHITE HOUSE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (WK1)
 MEMORIALIZED: A bronze statue of Ronald Reagan was unveiled in the Rotunda of the Capitol earlier this month. (WK6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); COLD WAR (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNORS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (88%); MITCH DANIELS (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



396 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: The Hamburger, Rarefied

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

 BODY:
JAMES GALLEGOS says he has been a fan of hamburgers since his parents took him to his first McDonald's on his 4th birthday. But he rarely goes to McDonald's anymore -- or to Burger King or Wendy's. Instead, he's become a regular at Five Guys in Shrewsbury.
 ''The burgers are fresher,'' Mr. Gallegos, 34, said after polishing off a cheeseburger topped with grilled mushrooms, onions and barbecue sauce and a side of fries ($5.19 for a cheeseburger with two patties; $2.69 for a regular-size order of fries). ''They just taste better.'' 
Five Guys is a chain that started in Virginia in 1986 and has more than 400 outlets around the country; President Obama went to one in Washington recently on a burger run for his staff. There are 25 locations in New Jersey, a state where Five Guys has plenty of competition as a growing number of restaurants offer alternatives to traditional fast-food burgers. 
 Elevation Burger, a small new Virginia chain that features burgers made from organic free-range beef, is scheduled to open its first New Jersey restaurant, in Montclair, later this month or in early July. And Bobby Flay, the celebrity chef, has opened two Bobby's Burger Palace restaurants in New Jersey. (A third is on Long Island.)
 ''I think better-quality burger places are opening because across the country, at every price point, people are demanding healthier, more flavorful meals that use quality and more wholesome ingredients,'' Mr. Flaysaid. 
 Several nonchain hamburger restaurants have also opened around the state in recent months, among them Boom, a Belmar restaurant that buys its meat from Pat La Frieda Wholesale Meat Purveyors in Manhattan and offers its signature Boom burger, about a half pound, for $9.50.
 Before opening Boom in November, the co-owners, Penny Raffetto and Patty D'Amico, sampled burgers in Manhattan. ''We went to the city to eat at some of the better-known burger places there to see how they were different,'' Ms. Raffetto said. ''I found out people were offering really good hamburgers. If I was pleased as a customer, I figured a lot of other people must be, too. That's why we decided to open a hamburger place.'' 
 Whether it's a restaurant owned by a big name like Mr. Flay or a small operation run by unknowns, the idea is largely the same: Offer a better cut of meat than the traditional fast-food fare, with an emphasis on leaner, more healthful burgers.
 The downside, at least for the customer, is that better burgers cost more. While a filling meal can be had at McDonald's for less than $5, a burger, fries and shake at Bobby's Burger Palace, for example, is around $15. 
 Mr. Flay, for one, doesn't see that as a problem. ''This economy has proven to be good for the burger business at every level,'' he said. ''It's a matter of making a choice to spend a little more for a good burger, which can be between a few cents to a couple of dollars more than at some other places, as opposed to deciding whether or not to spend $40 on a steak or lobster.''
 At the Shrewsbury Five Guys, there was a steady flow of traffic during my visit, but the employees filled the orders within about five minutes. Customers could watch the burgers sizzling on the grill or munch on free peanuts while they waited. 
 ''We're not fast food; we're quick service,'' said Paul Fibraio, the chief operating officer of Shore Things Restaurants, the franchiser of the Shrewsbury Five Guys. ''We have a fine-dining burger at a quick, casual price. Everything is made from scratch.'' 
 Following are a few places to sample high-quality hamburgers that are dished up quickly.
 BELMAR Boom, 811 Belmar Plaza; (732) 749-3280; boom-burgers.com.
 A small restaurant in a strip mall at the Jersey Shore, with a mounted skull of a Texas longhorn over the entrance, Boom prides itself on offering high-quality meat. Burgers are made with Black Angus beef from cows that are not treated with or fed any artificial ingredients. 
 CEDAR GROVE Buffies Baby Burgers, 198 Stevens Avenue; (973) 837-0055;
 buffiesbabyburgers.com. 
 A throwback to the burger-and-shake, lunch-counter style places that proliferated in the 1960s, Buffies, which is owned by three sisters, opened in September. The burgers are two-ounce sliders for $1.75 ($1.85 with cheese). 
 MONTCLAIR Elevation Burger, scheduled to open within weeks at 367 Bloomfield Avenue; elevationburger.com. 
 Having sampled a flavorful grilled burger recently at Elevation in Baltimore, I am eager to try the fare at the Montclair location. The Elevation burger, two three-ounce patties with cheese and unlimited toppings, is expected to cost $5.99. 
 PARAMUS Bobby's Burger Palace, Bergen Town Center; (201) 368-7001; in Eatontown at Monmouth Mall; (732) 544-0200; bobbysburgerpalace.com.
 Bobby Flay spices up his offerings with toppings like queso sauce, avocado relish and Meyer lemon honey mustard. The milkshake menu also offers creative choices, like blueberry pomegranate and pistachio. Burgers are six ounces and start at $6.50. 
 SHREWSBURY Five Guys, 747 Broad Street, (732) 530-1203; there are 24 other locations in the state. fiveguys.com. 
 Fresh, juicy burgers made from a combination of chuck and sirloin are the offerings at this red-and-white-tiled spot, which has sacks of potatoes piled up by the counter. The regular burger is two patties totaling 6.6 ounces. 
 WAYNE Burger Deluxe, 1420 Route 23 North; livanosrestaurantgroup.com; (973) 305-0033. 
 Burger Deluxe looks like a traditional diner and offers a menu with more variety than the typical burger place, but, as the name suggests, this is a restaurant where hamburgers take the spotlight. It is owned by the Livanos family, proprietors of Oceana and Molyvos in Manhattan, among other restaurants. There are 14 hamburger choices on the menu, made with Black Angus beef from a Kentucky farm. A half pound, they range from $7.95 to $9.75, including fries. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BOBBY'S: The Paramus Burger Palace, a blue-cheese burger, below, and Anthony Kurz, 5.
FIVE GUYS: At left, lunchtime in Shrewsbury
 the chain, which started in Virginia, has 400 locations nationally, 25 of them in New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); BEEF (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (67%); CELEBRITIES (65%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: BOBBY FLAY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009



397 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Drugs Won The War

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
This year marks the 40th anniversary of President Richard Nixon's start of the war on drugs, and it now appears that drugs have won.
 ''We've spent a trillion dollars prosecuting the war on drugs,'' Norm Stamper, a former police chief of Seattle, told me. ''What do we have to show for it? Drugs are more readily available, at lower prices and higher levels of potency. It's a dismal failure.''
 For that reason, he favors legalization of drugs, perhaps by the equivalent of state liquor stores or registered pharmacists. Other experts favor keeping drug production and sales illegal but decriminalizing possession, as some foreign countries have done. 
 Here in the United States, four decades of drug war have had three consequences:
 First, we have vastly increased the proportion of our population in prisons. The United States now incarcerates people at a rate nearly five times the world average. In part, that's because the number of people in prison for drug offenses rose roughly from 41,000 in 1980 to 500,000 today. Until the war on drugs, our incarceration rate was roughly the same as that of other countries.
 Second, we have empowered criminals at home and terrorists abroad. One reason many prominent economists have favored easing drug laws is that interdiction raises prices, which increases profit margins for everyone, from the Latin drug cartels to the Taliban. Former presidents of Mexico, Brazil and Colombia this year jointly implored the United States to adopt a new approach to narcotics, based on the public health campaign against tobacco.
 Third, we have squandered resources. Jeffrey Miron, a Harvard economist, found that federal, state and local governments spend $44.1 billion annually enforcing drug prohibitions. We spend seven times as much on drug interdiction, policing and imprisonment as on treatment. (Of people with drug problems in state prisons, only 14 percent get treatment.)
 I've seen lives destroyed by drugs, and many neighbors in my hometown of Yamhill, Oregon, have had their lives ripped apart by crystal meth. Yet I find people like Mr. Stamper persuasive when they argue that if our aim is to reduce the influence of harmful drugs, we can do better.
 Mr. Stamper is active in Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, or LEAP, an organization of police officers, prosecutors, judges and citizens who favor a dramatic liberalization of American drug laws. He said he gradually became disillusioned with the drug war, beginning in 1967 when he was a young beat officer in San Diego.
 ''I had arrested a 19-year-old, in his own home, for possession of marijuana,'' he recalled. ''I literally broke down the door, on the basis of probable cause. I took him to jail on a felony charge.'' The arrest and related paperwork took several hours, and Mr. Stamper suddenly had an ''aha!'' moment: ''I could be doing real police work.'' 
 It's now broadly acknowledged that the drug war approach has failed. President Obama's new drug czar, Gil Kerlikowske, told the Wall Street Journal that he wants to banish the war on drugs phraseology, while shifting more toward treatment over imprisonment.
 The stakes are huge, the uncertainties great, and there's a genuine risk that liberalizing drug laws might lead to an increase in use and in addiction. But the evidence suggests that such a risk is small. After all, cocaine was used at only one-fifth of current levels when it was legal in the United States before 1914. And those states that have decriminalized marijuana possession have not seen surging consumption.
 ''I don't see any big downside to marijuana decriminalization,'' said Peter Reuter, a professor of criminology at the University of Maryland who has been skeptical of some of the arguments of the legalization camp. At most, he said, there would be only a modest increase in usage. 
 Moving forward, we need to be less ideological and more empirical in figuring out what works in combating America's drug problem. One approach would be for a state or two to experiment with legalization of marijuana, allowing it to be sold by licensed pharmacists, while measuring the impact on usage and crime. 
 I'm not the only one who is rethinking these issues. Senator Jim Webb of Virginia has sponsored legislation to create a presidential commission to examine various elements of the criminal justice system, including drug policy. So far 28 senators have co-sponsored the legislation, and Mr. Webb says that Mr. Obama has been supportive of the idea as well. 
 ''Our nation's broken drug policies are just one reason why we must re-examine the entire criminal justice system,'' Mr. Webb says. That's a brave position for a politician, and it's the kind of leadership that we need as we grope toward a more effective strategy against narcotics in America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); PRISONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (89%); PROBABLE CAUSE (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (86%); PHARMACISTS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CANNABIS (75%); FELONIES (74%); TALIBAN (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); CARTELS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); METHAMPHETAMINE (69%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (55%); TERRORISM (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



398 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Overhauls the Banking System, 2 Top Regulators Feud

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two of the nation's most powerful bank regulators were once again at each other's throats.
 At a public meeting three weeks ago, John C. Dugan, the comptroller of the currency, blasted a proposal to impose stiff new insurance fees on banks as unfair to the largest banks, which he regulates. The financial crisis stemmed in part from problems at small banks, he insisted.
 Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the regulator for many smaller, community banks, could barely hide her contempt. The large banks, she said, had wreaked havoc on the system, only to be bailed out by ''hundreds of billions, if not trillions, in government assistance.'' She added, ''Fairness is always an issue.''
 Behind the scenes, the two regulators have been clashing over a host of issues, officials said, be it the administration's coming regulatory overhaul or Ms. Bair's campaign to shake up the top management at Citigroup. 
 The long-running and deeply personal feud between Mr. Dugan and Ms. Bair, two Republican holdovers with similar career paths in Washington, is now helping to shape President Obama's attempt to revamp financial regulation aimed at preventing the regulatory lapses that contributed to the economic crisis. 
 Some of Mr. Obama's advisers and some senior Democratic lawmakers have suggested creating a single bank regulator. But the administration's current version, which could be announced as early as this week, would not combine the regulatory agencies. Instead, it would give Mr. Dugan and Ms. Bair significant new powers -- and could intensify their turf battles. 
 Ms. Bair and Mr. Dugan declined to comment for this article. 
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, the main author of the administration's plan, in recent weeks has refereed among the competing views of Ms. Bair, Mr. Dugan and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman. The four generally agree that, if starting from scratch, they would not create the cumbersome system that has evolved piecemeal over the last 150 years.
 But with the administration and crucial lawmakers rejecting a single agency, the four officials have often disagreed on just how to streamline and strengthen regulation. Some points of contention include views on which agencies should play central roles in overseeing financial companies whose troubles could pose problems for the overall system, and whether to create a new agency to protect consumers from abusive mortgages or credit cards. 
 Officials say the latest version of the plan, in large part, is a compromise of various viewpoints.
 ''On an issue like regulatory reform, with so many differing opinions, the expectation is not that all sides will agree on the final product,'' said Andrew Williams, a Treasury spokesman. ''But the administration worked hard to gather information from all parties to prevent a crisis like this from ever happening again.''
 Mr. Obama's economic team has often had internecine battles over policy, but the president's advisers generally fall in line once he makes the final decision. But Mr. Dugan and Ms. Bair are semi-independent regulators whose feuds have multiplied -- and at times erupted in public.
 Most of the banking industry couldn't be happier with the current system. Bank executives and lobbyists say that the system, while flawed, enables regulators to tailor rules for a variety of financial institutions. They maintain that the policy issues for small banks differ markedly from, and often conflict with, those involving the large banks.
 ''It's healthy that the regulators disagree,'' said Camden R. Fine, head of the Independent Community Bankers of America. ''Out of their tension comes good, balanced policy.''
 But the fractured nature of regulation also makes it easier for financial institutions to shop for the friendliest regulator or pit agencies against one another, lawmakers say. To reduce that risk, the administration is expected to propose eliminating one of the weakest agencies, the Office of Thrift Supervision. The agency was faulted for missing problems at some of the largest savings associations, like Washington Mutual and IndyMac, as well as at the American International Group, which it regulated because the company owns a thrift.
 Two Democratic senators, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Charles E. Schumer of New York, have urged Mr. Geithner to combine the four federal bank regulators into one. 
 ''With multiple bank regulators, you get the worst of both worlds,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''Some banks get conflicting signals. Other banks get no signals at all.''
 Mr. Dodd said that, despite his support for a single regulator, he favored the F.D.I.C.'s continued role as the manager of the bank insurance fund. He said the plan was intended to reduce regulatory gaps but not discourage healthy debate among officials.
 ''Despite the fact that I'm an advocate of a single regulator, I like the idea of some tension,'' Mr. Dodd said. 
 Other Democrats, notably Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, have so far succeeded in convincing the administration that such a proposal is more political trouble than it is worth. And some banking experts say that the number of regulators is not the crucial factor.
 ''What's most important is who the leaders are,'' said William K. Black, a former senior lawyer for the agency that became the Office of Thrift Supervision, and who brought cases against many savings and loans in the 1990s. 
 The Obama plan, still being drafted by Mr. Geithner, is likely to give the F.D.I.C. new authority to seize and shut down financial companies in serious trouble. 
 The administration is also expected to propose an agency to oversee financial products sold to consumers, like mortgages and credit cards. Both those ideas were supported by Ms. Bair and challenged by Mr. Dugan.
 The regulatory plan would also establish the Federal Reserve as a super-regulator to police risk across the financial system, a proposal supported by Mr. Dugan and criticized by Ms. Bair.
 The fighting between Mr. Dugan and Ms. Bair reflects the institutional interests of their respective agencies, as well as the differences between big banks and small banks.
 ''The F.D.I.C.'s primary role is as the deposit insurer, so it is inclined to be risk averse,'' said Brian C. McCormally, a former regulator in the comptroller's office who is a partner at the Washington law firm Arnold & Porter. 
 Ms. Bair and Mr. Dugan have fought over many other issues. In recent weeks, Ms. Bair has sought management changes at the large troubled banks, including Citigroup. Mr. Dugan, on the other hand, has advocated giving Citigroup managers more time to put their house in order.
 The resumes of the two regulators might make it seem as if they would get along. Both began their political careers as aides to Republican senators and both served as assistant Treasury secretaries under Republican presidents, at different times. 
 Ms. Bair's approach to policy has evolved significantly from a conservative Republican aide to Senator Bob Dole of Kansas to a top regulator who now derives much of her political clout from her close ties to senior Democrats, notably Mr. Frank and Mr. Dodd. Both lawmakers urged the White House to retain Ms. Bair.
 ''She's been brilliant,'' Mr. Frank said in an interview. Mr. Frank said she recognized long before officials in the Bush administration that it was vital for the government to more aggressively support the housing market and reduce foreclosures. He also lauded her for a series of decisions that have helped community banks.
 But at the Treasury and the Federal Reserve, Ms. Bair is viewed as someone who pushes her and her agency's interests rather than someone who finds common ground with other policy makers. Besides Mr. Dugan, she has antagonized many other leaders in Washington. 
 Officials at the Federal Reserve and the comptroller's office said she exasperated them last fall when she balked at allowing Citigroup to take over Wachovia, a major bank that was about to collapse.
 In bruising negotiations that lasted until 4 a.m., Ms. Bair squared off against Mr. Bernanke, Mr. Dugan and the Treasury secretary at the time, Henry M. Paulson Jr. The stand-off left many officials, who thought the broader financial crisis had given them no alternative but to finance the deal, fuming.
 When Wells Fargo a few weeks later made a more generous offer for Wachovia that required no government aid, Ms. Bair enraged Citigroup executives, some bank officials said, when she backed Wells Fargo and helped scuttle Citi's deal. 
 Her supporters said she believed that she had a duty to take an active role and could not afford to sit on the sidelines, hoping that the plans of the Fed and Treasury turned out well. 
 Mr. Dugan, a more low-key regulator, has also worked as a lawyer representing some of the largest banks.
 He derives much of his influence from his close relationship with Mr. Geithner, reinforced when they worked on the banking crisis last year under the Bush administration.
 The proposal to overhaul financial regulation must be approved by Congress, where it could be reshaped drastically.
 ''This is the kind of thing that reminds me of the anecdote about the old man and the sea,'' said Mr. Dodd, the Senate Banking Committee chairman. ''It's going to take so long to drag it in that by the time it gets to the boat, it could come in as a set of bones.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John C. Dugan, comptroller of the currency, has clashed with Sheila C. Bair, head of the F.D.I.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (90%); JOHN C DUGAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



399 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; COMMENCEMENT SPEECHES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 2231 words

HEADLINE: Praise, Advice and Reminders of the Sour Economy for Graduates

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Delivering the commencement address last month at the University of Notre Dame, in Indiana, President Obama told graduates they were a generation who must ''find a path back to prosperity.'' 
 Graduates heard a similar message at hundreds of colleges this spring, as commencement orators -- including actors, executives, poets and heads of state -- leavened their congratulatory messages with acknowledgment of the bleak marketplace outside campus.
 ''We are living in the most difficult economic environment since the Great Depression,'' Bud Selig, the commissioner of Major League Baseball, said at the University of Wisconsin.
 Some speakers, though, found time to wisecrack. 
 At Wagner College on Staten Island, for instance, Gov. David A. Paterson of New York said the country was experiencing the worst recession in 80 years, but he also reminisced about his commencement decades earlier.
 Some students graduated magna cum laude, Mr. Paterson said, and others summa cum laude. ''And then there were people like me who found everything to do but study,'' he said. ''And we graduated thank you laude.'' 
 Besides the president, the first lady, Michelle Obama, and at least 10 of the 15 cabinet secretaries addressed commencement ceremonies this spring. 
 The White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, told graduates of Sarah Lawrence College, in Westchester County, N.Y., that as a high school senior he had by accident nearly sliced off a finger, yet had foolishly followed up with a nighttime swim that left him with gangrene, battling for his life. 
 His point? ''Don't be reckless,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''Take what you do and how you live your life seriously.''
 Perhaps the most somber admonishment came from Energy Secretary Steven Chu, who warned graduates at Harvard University that if the world pursued business as usual, climate change could be ''so rapid that many species will have trouble adapting, including humans.''
 Following are excerpts from Mr. Chu's address and others: 
 Harvard University
 Steven Chu
 Energy secretary
 Climate change is not new; the Earth went through six ice ages in the past 600,000 years. However, recent measurements show that the climate has begun to change rapidly. The size of the north polar ice cap in the month of September is only half the size it was a mere 50 years ago. The sea level has been rising since direct measurements began in 1870, but that rate is now five times faster than it was at the beginning. These changes are not due to natural fluctuations. For the first time in human history, science is now making predictions of how our actions today will affect the world 50 and 100 years from now. 
 College of Mount St. Vincent
 John Patrick Shanley
 Playwright
 Not to bring up something upsetting, but when you leave here today, you may go through a period of unemployment. My suggestion is this: Enjoy the unemployment. Have a second cup of coffee. Go to the park. Read Walt Whitman. Walt Whitman loved being unemployed. I don't believe he ever did a day's work in his life. As you may know, he was a poet. If a lot of time goes by and you continue to be unemployed, you may want to consider announcing to all appropriate parties that you have become a poet.
 University of Oklahoma
 David McCullough
 Historian
 There is no such thing as a self-made man or woman. Never was, never will be. We are all, as were those in whose footsteps we follow, shaped by the influence and examples of countless others -- parents, grandparents, friends, rivals. And by those who wrote the music that moves us to our souls, those whose performance on stage or on the playing field took our breaths away, those who wrote the great charters which are the bedrock of our system of self-government. And so many who, to our benefit, struggled and suffered through times of trouble and grave uncertainty. And by teachers. ... I want to stress as emphatically as I can the immeasurable importance of teachers. 
 Wellesley College
 Kimberly Dozier
 CBS News correspondent
 You chose a Wellesley grad who spent the first decade of her career broke, begging for freelance work, who constantly heard she was underqualified or, later, overqualified (that means old) or basically just plain wrong for whatever it was she wanted to do. She eventually ended up with a really great job, doing exactly what she wanted to do, exactly where she wanted to do it: in the Middle East. And she got hit by a car bomb; they nearly took her legs off. She had to come back from the dead, roughly five times, and learn how to walk again. So it tells me a lot about you and your current state of mind that you all thought you needed to hear from me, with whatever lessons I had to offer from those experiences, as you leave college for the rest of your life. In short, you all want to know how to be bomb-proof, right? So you're right: I learned a lot. Most of all, that every time I ran into a wall, I had two choices on how to face it: hope or fear. 
 University of California, Berkeley, Graduate School of Journalism
 Barbara Ehrenreich
 Author
 You are going to be trying to carve out a career in the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. You are, furthermore, going to be trying to do so within what appears to be a dying industry. You have abundant skills and talents; it's just not clear that anyone wants to pay you for them. Well, you are not alone. How do you think it feels to be an autoworker right now? And I've spent time with plenty of laid-off paper mill workers, construction workers and miners. They've got skills; they've got experience. They just don't have jobs. So let me be the first to say this to you: Welcome to the American working class. 
 Wheaton College (Massachusetts)
 Deval Patrick
 Governor of Massachusetts
 Our youngest daughter, Catherine, graduated from high school a couple years ago. Sitting at her graduation, I couldn't help but think about the difference between her journey and my own nearly 35 years earlier. I grew up on welfare on the South Side of Chicago in my grandparents' two-bedroom tenement. I shared a room and a set of bunk beds with my mother and my sister, who is here today -- so we would rotate from the top bunk to the bottom bunk to the floor, every third night on the floor. I went to overcrowded, sometimes violent public schools. I can't think of a time when I didn't love to read. But I don't actually remember ever owning a book until I got my break in 1970, when I came to Massachusetts on a scholarship to boarding school. ... Now, our Catherine, by contrast, has always had her own room, most of that time in a house in a leafy neighborhood outside of Boston. By the time she got to high school, she had already traveled on four continents, she knew how to use and pronounce the ''concierge,'' and she had shaken hands in the White House with the president of the United States. 
 Georgia Institute of Technology
 John F. Brock III
 Chief executive, Coca-Cola
 I am optimistic about the future because of the inherent drive of men and women to work hard, to achieve, to succeed, to make life better for their children. To do what's right for the future. Maybe you expect to hear such optimism from a guy who sells a product like Coca-Cola that invites you to ''open happiness.'' But consider this theme for a moment. Coca-Cola operates in more corners of the world than any other enterprise. It's been said that after the word ''hello,'' Coca-Cola is the most recognized word in the world. Our business has chosen the idea of ''happiness'' as the best way to connect our brand with billions of people in more than 200 countries. Did some marketing guru randomly make that choice? No. It was a thoroughly analyzed decision about what speaks to the aspirations of people today. 
 The Juilliard School
 Laura Linney
 Actress
 Remember that no matter which art you practice, there is no more valuable skill than the ability to listen carefully. Especially when you listen to the music, or listen to the text, listen! They will guide you well. 
 University of Michigan
 Larry Page
 Co-founder, Google
 I had one of those dreams when I was 23. When I suddenly woke up, I was thinking, What if we could download the whole Web and just keep the links? And I grabbed a pen and started writing. Sometimes it is important to wake up and stop dreaming. I spent the middle of that night scribbling out the details and convincing myself it would work. Soon after, I told my adviser, Terry Winograd, it would take a couple of weeks to download the Web. He nodded knowingly, fully aware it would take much longer but wise enough to not tell me. The optimism of youth is often underrated. Amazingly, I had no thought of building a search engine. The idea wasn't even on the radar. But much later, we happened upon a better way of ranking Web pages to make a really great search engine, and Google was born. When a really great dream shows up, grab it. 
 Mount Holyoke College
 Mary McAleese
 President of Ireland
 Over 40 years ago, when I was in my midteens, I announced at home that I had decided to become a lawyer. The first words I heard in response were, ''You can't because you are a woman.'' It was the voice of our parish priest. The next voice I heard was my mother's, saying, ''Don't listen to him.'' To my mother's surprise, I heeded her advice. A couple of years later, the same year that the first human walked on the Moon, I started law school and our first textbook was called ''Learning the Law'' by a very eminent jurist, Prof. Glanville Williams. In a chapter ominously entitled ''Women,'' he stated his views that law school was no place for women and that our voices were too weak to be heard in a courtroom. That man had clearly never met my mother. He reckoned the only thing to be gained by having female law students was the opportunity it provided to meet suitable spouses. I married a dentist, just for spite. 
 Birmingham-Southern College
 Natalie Davis
 Political science professor
 You are the Millennials. You differ from Generation X in that you are neither cynical nor alienated, and you seem to like your parents. You're not like the boomers, who are ideologues and tend to listen only to those who share their ideology. You are seen as being inclusive when it comes to race, ethnicity and sexual orientation. You actually have positive attitudes on the ability of government to play a constructive role in our lives. You want to build coalitions. ... You are networked, and you tweet. And most importantly for our time, you are problem-solvers. 
 Duke University
 Oprah Winfrey
 Talk show host
 Of all the wonderful things that have happened, including getting a doctorate, an honorary doctorate from Duke, what really makes me feel successful is being able to use my life in service to someone else. And I will have to say, it is a wonderful thing to have a beautiful home, or homes, a wonderful thing to have a beautiful home which just escaped the fire in Santa Barbara. And it is really fantastic to have your own jet, and anybody who says it isn't is lying to you. That jet thing is really good. But you really haven't completed the circle of success unless you can help somebody else move forward. 
 Oberlin College
 Richard N. Haass
 President, Council on Foreign Relations
 Dissent will be, and should be, part of your lives. This country was born of dissent (the Revolutionary War), defined by it (the Civil War) and changed profoundly by it. The labor, suffrage and civil rights movements as well as the anti-Vietnam protests all come to mind. Dissent is as American as cherry pie. It is also as Oberlinian as -- tofu. Whatever you choose to do, wherever you choose to do it, you owe it to your bosses and your conscience to be intellectually honest. 
 United States Military Academy
 Robert M. Gates
 Defense secretary
 During the Revolution, a man in civilian clothes rode past a redoubt being repaired. The commander was shouting orders but not helping. When the rider asked why, the supervisor of the work detail retorted, ''Sir, I am a corporal.'' The stranger apologized, dismounted and helped repair the redoubt. When he was done, he turned toward the supervisor and said, ''Mr. Corporal, next time you have a job like this, and not enough men to do it, go to your commander in chief, and I will come and help you again.'' Too late, the corporal recognized George Washington. The power of example in leadership. 
 Rice University
 Zainab Salbi
 Founder, Women for Women International
 Sometimes you just have to jump off the cliff without knowing where you will land. Sixteen years ago, I jumped. It was 1993. I was 23 years old and horrified by what I was seeing in the news about rape camps in Bosnia. I couldn't find anyone doing something about the astounding injustices women were experiencing, so I decided to do something myself. I cannot tell you how many people ridiculed my efforts. I was not getting paid, and a lot of people said: ''Stop doing that. Go get a real job, and get paid.'' ... At 25 years old I was honored by President Clinton at a White House ceremony for my grass-roots work. Even then I would not have imagined that 15 years later, Women for Women would be assisting hundreds of thousands of women in countries all around the world. ... If I, an immigrant woman from Iraq with no money, can do this, you can too.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A collection of excerpts last Sunday from this season's commencement speeches around the country misidentified the company for which John F. Brock III, who gave the address at Georgia Tech, is chief executive. He heads Coca-Cola Enterprises, not the Coca-Cola Company. (Coca-Cola Enterprises is the largest bottler and distributor for the Coca-Cola Company.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I don't actually remember ever owning a book until I got my break in 1970, when I came to Massachusetts on a scholarship.'' DEVAL PATRICK Governor of Massachusetts, speaking at Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., on May 16. The college president, Ronald A. Crutcher, is at left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTORIA AROCHO/WHEATON COLLEGE)
 ''When I was in my midteens, I announced at home that I had decided to become a lawyer. The first words I heard in response were, 'You can't because you are a woman.''' MARY McALEESE President of Ireland, at the Mount Holyoke commencement on May 24. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED LeBLANC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (67%); BASEBALL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (78%); STEVEN CHU (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); DAVID PATERSON (68%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); MARY MCALEESE (58%); DEVAL PATRICK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009



400 of 808 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Mitchell Cites Syria's Role In Mideast Peace Effort

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria 

 BODY:
George J. Mitchell, the Obama administration's Middle East envoy, said during a visit with Syrian leaders here on Saturday that the country had a vital role to play in forging peace in the region. 
 Mr. Mitchell's visit -- he is the highest-ranking American official to visit Syria since the United States pulled its ambassador in 2005 -- is the administration's strongest push yet to improve relations with the country. And it is part of a broader effort to press Arab countries to help resume Israeli-Palestinian peace talks and also pursue a peace deal with the Jewish state themselves. 
 Syria is seen as a key player in this process because of its support for the Palestinian militant group Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip, and its intermittent peace talks with Israel.
 ''Syria has an integral role to play in reaching comprehensive peace,'' Mr. Mitchell said. Syria and the United States share an obligation ''to create conditions for negotiations to begin promptly and end successfully,'' he told reporters after a 90-minute meeting with President Bashar al-Assad in the capital, Damascus.
 A senior Syrian official described Saturday's talks as ''very positive'' and said Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Assad also discussed the security situation in neighboring Iraq. The United States has long sought more Syrian help with keeping weapons and fighters from crossing from Syria into Iraq.
 Mr. Mitchell's visit to Syria follows two separate trips in the past few months by senior American officials: Jeffrey Feltman, acting assistant secretary of state, and Daniel Shapiro, a Middle East expert at the White House. Mr. Feltman is currently in the country with Mr. Mitchell.
 The Obama administration hopes the diplomatic outreach will encourage Syria to play a positive role in both the Middle East peace effort and also in Iraq.
 ''I've held substantive discussions with President Assad and on the full range of serious issues in our bilateral relationship,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''We seek to build on this effort to establish a relationship built on mutual respect and mutual interest.''
 Despite the diplomatic overtures, the Obama administration renewed Bush-era economic sanctions against Syria last month as a way to keep pressure on the country to cooperate.
 The Bush administration imposed the sanctions and withdrew its ambassador in 2005 after the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri of Lebanon in Beirut. Many Lebanese politicians have blamed Syria for the killing -- a charge Damascus has denied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George J. Mitchell, right, the White House's Middle East envoy, met with Bashar al-Assad, the president of Syria, on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BASSEM TELLAWI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HAMAS (75%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (92%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) SYRIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); LEBANON (93%); IRAQ (93%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

 
